DEAR 

PARTNERS, 


I’m  sure  you  would  agree  that  a  company  gets 
the  best  results  and  the  best  people  when  it  is  in 
pursuit  of  greatness.  After  all,  when  given  a  choice, 
who  in  the  world  really  wants  to  wake  up  every  day, 
go  to  work  and  muddle  in  mediocrity  when  you  have 
a  chance  to  be  a  part  of  something  special.  That’s 
why  I’m  proud  to  report  that  our  people  are  pumped 
up  about  PUTTING  THE  PIECES  IN  PLACE  TO  BECOME  THE 
DEFINING  GLOBAL  COMPANYTHAT  FEEDS  THE  WORLD. 


A  FAMOUS  RECOGNITION  CULTURE  WHERE  EVERYONE  COUNTS. 

We  already  serve  as  a  best  practice  for  other  companies  because  of  the  way  we  use  fun  recognition  to  celebrate 
the  achievement  of  others  and  drive  results.  And  our  success  starts  with  the  fundamental  belief  that  everyone  at 
every  level  can  truly  make  a  difference.  This  belief  inspires  us  all  to  do  our  very  best.  We  intend  to  capitalize  on 
our  spirited  work  environment  by  using  it  as  a  magnet  to  attract  and  retain  the  best  talent  and  make  Customer 
Mania  come  alive  in  every  person  and  in  every  store  as  we  go  for  operational  excellence.  As  it  stands  today,  this 
culture  is  well  established  at  our  restaurant  support  centers  and  above  store  but  is  inconsistently  executed  at 
our  restaurants  where  it  counts  most.  A  defining  global  company  will  have  its  customers  recognizing  its  passion 
for  making  them  happy  and  we  will  settle  for  nothing  less. 

DYNAMIC,  VIBRANT  BRANDS  EVERYWHERE. 

We  want  our  brands  in  every  country  to  be  always  connecting  with  our  customers,  always  reaching  for  new 
innovations  and  excellence,  and  always  leading.  To  this  end,  we  are  in  the  process  of  cascading  our  Achieving 
Breakthrough  Results  (ABR)  training  to  our  managers  around  the  world.  The  charge  is  to  have  an  army  of  ABR 
“black  belts”  who  achieve  the  kind  of  breakthroughs  that  will  make  headlines  in  our  industry.  We  believe  this 
is  the  most  ambitious  training  initiative  ever  conducted  in  our  industry  and  will  help  us  achieve  more  -  faster  - 
much  in  the  same  vein  Six  Sigma  has  done  for  manufacturing  companies. 

A  COMPANY  WITH  A  HUGE  HEART. 

This  means  truly  caring  about  others.  This  means  opening  doors  and  providing  great  career  paths  that 
allow  people  to  work  their  way  up  from  the  bottom  to  the  top.  That  also  means  using  our  talent,  time  and 
imagination  to  save  lives  and  improve  our  environment.  That’s  why  we  have  partnered  with  the  United  Nations 
World  Food  Programme  and  have  an  annual  hunger  relief  campaign  that  raised  nearly  $20  million  in  cash  and 
in-kind  contributions  in  2008.  That’s  the  equivalent  of  80  million  meals,  saving  nearly  1.8  million  children 
from  starvation.  In  addition,  our  team  members  donated  five  million  volunteer  hours  to  this  incredible  cause. 
Equally  important  is  our  commitment  to  health  and  nutrition,  including  an  online  exercise  program  to  help 
educate  consumers  about  maintaining  a  balanced  lifestyle.  In  China,  our  team  has  created  an  incredible 
3-on-3  basketball  tournament  with  24,000  teams  participating  in  400  plus  Chinese  cities.  The  bottom  line  is 
we  do  lots  of  good  in  the  communities  we  serve  and  to  learn  more  I  ask  you  to  check  out  our  company’s  first 
Corporate  Responsibility  Report  which  is  published  online  at  Yum.com.  Great  companies  have  always  focused 
on  more  than  making  money  and  we  are  doing  just  that. 

RESULTS,  AGAIN  AND  AGAIN. 

I  think  you’d  all  agree  the  only  way  you  can  be  recognized  as  “defining”  is  to  continue  to  put  the  numbers  on  the 
board  that  make  you  a  winner  with  your  customers  and  shareholders.  And  admittedly,  given  the  current  state 
of  the  financial  markets  and  economy,  2009  represents  our  most  challenging  year  yet.  In  the  response  to  the 
financial  uncertainties  posed  by  declining  investment  values  and  rising  unemployment,  consumers  have  trimmed 
their  discretionary  spending  to  conserve  cash  and  rebuild  savings.  As  a  consequence  they  are  dining  out  less 
frequently  and  when  they  do  go  out  to  eat,  they  aggressively  seek  value.  To  succeed  under  these  conditions 
restaurant  concepts  must  launch  a  two  pronged  attack:  offer  superior  value,  and  provide  differentiated  and 
relevant  products.  While  it’s  true  that  we  enjoy  some  measure  of  insulation  by  virtue  of  our  position  in  the  lower 
end  of  the  dining  out  space  arguably  capturing  trade  down  business  from  higher  end  concepts  that  are  more 
exposed  to  an  economic  slowdown— we  are  not  immune  to  the  effects  of  a  weakening  economy.  Therefore,  to 
sustain  our  track  record  of  success,  we  are  sharpening  our  value  offerings  and  providing  innovative  products 
that  uniquely  satisfy  customer  needs  and  leverage  the  capacity  of  our  assets.  What’s  more,  we  are  confident  that 
our  considerable  financial  strength  matches  the  staying  power  of  our  brands.  In  fact,  we  stand  to  gain  from  any 
near  term  industry  consolidation.  That  said,  we  think  it’s  also  more  important  than  ever  to  focus  on  the  keys  to 
our  long-term  growth.  And  the  good  news  for  us  is  we  have  four  very  clear  growth  strategies  we  are  pursuing  with 
urgency  and  purpose.  Strategies  that  have  served  us  well  and  put  real  meat  on  the  bone  in  our  quest  to  become 
THE  DEFINING  GLOBAL  COMPANY  THAT  FEEDS  THE  WORLD. 


#1 

BUILD  LEADING  BRANDS  ACROSS  CHINA  IN 

EVERY  SIGNIFICANT  CATEGORY. 


With  KFC  and  Pizza  Hut,  we  have  already  established  two  of  the  most  loved  brands  in 
the  fast  food  and  casual  dining  category  and  we  are  now  successfully  developing  Pizza 
Hut  Home  Service.  We  are  even  creating  our  own  Chinese  quick  service  restaurant 
chain,  East  Dawning,  tailored  to  the  local  favorites  based  on  the  amazing  insight  that 
Chinese  people's  favorite  cuisine  is,  believe  it  or  not,  Chinese  food! 

While  the  China  economy  has  at  least  temporarily  declined  from  it’s  robust  double 
digit  growth  to  what  is  projected  to  be  6%  growth  in  2009,  we  continue  to  believe 
we  are  in  the  first  inning  of  a  nine  inning  ball  game  with  a  business  that  has  already 
achieved  tremendous  scale  (3,000+  units)  and  nearly  a  half  billion  dollars  in  profit. 

In  fact,  there  is  no  question  we  are  uniquely  and  competitively  positioned  to  capitalize 
on  what  we  believe  will  be  and  remains  the  biggest  growth  opportunity  for  the 
restaurant  industry  in  the  21st  century. 

Consider  this,  there  are  300  million  people  in  the  U.S.  and  there  are  already 
over  600  million  cell  phone  users  in  China  out  of  a  general  population  of  1.3  billion. 
There  has  been  double  digit  personal  income  growth  the  past  four  years  with  over 
18  million  people  entering  the  cities  each  year.  The  market  share  for  chain  restaurants 
is  less  than  3%  in  China  with  plenty  of  room  to  grow.  There  is  high  purchase  intent  of 
Western  brands  and  consumer  demand  for  quality  is  growing  sharply. 

Furthermore,  China  is  our  highest  returning  international  business  with  a  cash 
payback  on  investments  of  approximately  two  years  which  is  why  we  are  investing 
our  own  capital  to  be  primarily  company  owned  and  operated.  As  we  have  built 
the  business,  we’ve  put  in  place  a  world  class  infrastructure  to  give  us  a  long-term 
competitive  advantage.  We  uniquely  own  our  own  food  distribution  system  that  has 
allowed  us  to  expand  KFC  into  more  than  500  cities  in  China  and  make  Pizza  Hut 
available  in  nearly  100  cities.  We  have  one  of  the  largest  real  estate  and  construction 
teams  of  any  retailer  in  the  world  that  opened  over  500  traditional  restaurants  in 
2008  as  we  generated  7%  same  store  sales  growth  in  China.  We  have  also  developed 
target  manufacturing  capability  for  our  proprietary  dessert  line  of  egg  tarts  and  pizza 
dough  making.  And  we  continue  to  grow  our  people  capability  ahead  of  the  business 
by  recruiting  and  retaining  talent  with  highly  sought  after  and  well  paying  jobs.  In  fact, 
our  China  executive  team  and  store  operations  are  best  in  class  in  the  Yum!  world. 


I  often  get  asked  the  question  of  how  big  we  think  we  can  be  in 
China.  Our  best  long  range  forecast  is  over  20,000  restaurants. 

The  way  we  look  at  it,  KFC  can  be  every  bit  as  big  as  McDonald’s 
is  in  the  U.S.,  ultimately  reaching  15,000+  units;  Pizza  Hut  Casual 
Dining  can  equal  the  casual  dining  leader  in  the  U.S.,  Applebee’s, 
achieving  2,000+  units;  Pizza  Hut  Home  Service  can  match  category 
leading  Dominos  in  the  U.S.,  achieving  5,000+  units:  and  East 
Dawning  is  attacking  the  Chinese  equivalent  to  the  hamburger 
category  in  the  U.S.,  so  who  knows  how  high  is  up? 

I  also  often  get  asked  the  question:  what  can  go  wrong?  Well,  in 
the  past  five  years,  we’ve  had  challenges  like  dealing  with  SARS, 
the  threat  of  Avian  Flu,  and  an  ingredient  supply  issue  with  each 
having  significant  short  term  impact.  In  each  case  we  bounced  back 
stronger  than  before,  and  in  fact,  have  generated  23%  compounded 
annual  profit  growth  rate  in  the  China  Division  over  the  past  five 
years.  Now  we  have  a  slowing  6%  GDP  growth  rate  that  still  makes 
China  the  fastest  growing  major  economy  in  the  world.  My  hunch  is 
we  can  definitely  perform  well  in  this  kind  of  an  environment.  And 
while  we  will  most  certainly  have  our  future  ups  and  downs,  I’m 
more  convinced  than  ever  that  one  day  we  will  have  more  restaurants 
and  profits  in  China  than  we  do  in  the  U.S.,  so  we  wouldn’t  trade 
places  with  anyone.  That’s  my  story  and  I’m  sticking  with  it!! 

CHINA  DIVISION  ONGOING  GROWTH  MODEL:  20%  OPERATING  PROFIT 


GROWTH;  +20%  SYSTEM  SALES  GROWTH  IN  MAINLAND  CHINA. 


#2 

DRIVE  AGGRESSIVE  INTERNATIONAL  EXPANSION  &  BUILD 

STRONG  BRANDS  EVERYWHERE. 


Yum!  Restaurants  International  (YRI),  which  operates  in  over  110  countries  and 
territories  outside  of  China  and  the  U.S.,  had  its  best  year  yet  in  2008.  YRI  delivered 
same  store  sales  growth  of  4%,  system  sales  growth  of  10%  and  operating  profit 
growth  of  10%,  resulting  in  record  operating  profit  of  over  a  half  billion  dollars.  We 
have  a  high  return  franchising  model  with  over  90%  of  our  new  restaurants  being  built 
by  franchisees  thus  generating  over  $650  million  in  franchise  fees,  requiring  minimal 
capital  on  our  part.  To  date,  we  have  not  seen  a  slowdown  in  the  development  pace. 
And  while  KFC  and  Pizza  Hut  are  already  global  brands,  we  have  barely  scratched  the 
surface  of  our  potential  to  reach  a  combined  population  of  five  billion  people. 

We  opened  a  record  924  new  traditional  restaurants  across  six  continents  in  2008. 
That's  the  eighth  straight  year  we’ve  opened  more  than  700  new  restaurants  at  YRI, 
a  big  number  in  relation  to  any  international  business.  Our  ever  increasing  scale  fuels 
growth  as  more  restaurants  and  more  sales  lead  to  more  marketing  and  an  even 
stronger  organization.  This  global  infrastructure,  coupled  with  our  over  700  dedicated 
franchisees,  is  our  single  biggest  competitive  advantage  at  YRI.  For  this  we  are 
largely  indebted  to  PepsiCo  who,  prior  to  our  spin-off  in  1997,  invested  40  years  and 
billions  of  dollars  to  establish  the  global  network  we've  turned  into  a  nearly  13,000 
unit  powerhouse.  The  reality  is  it  would  take  the  same  time  and  commitment  for 
our  competition  to  reach  our  size  and  scale,  and  frankly,  we  don’t  expect  most  U.S. 
competitors  to  have  significant  international  businesses  for  a  long  time  to  come. 

We’re  focused  on  profitably  driving  international  expansion  in  three  global  arenas- 
franchise  only  markets,  established  company  owned  markets,  and  emerging, 
underdeveloped  markets  with  huge  populations. 

When  you  look  at  our  core  franchise  and  company  business  in  total  for  the  year, 

I’m  especially  pleased  with  the  consistent  growth  we  are  seeing  from  our  great 
franchise  business  units.  YRI  continued  to  generate  strong  system  sales  growth, 
excluding  foreign  currency  translation  of  8%  for  the  full  year.  I  would  especially  like  to 
congratulate  the  following  teams  for  outstanding  system  sales  growth  performance: 
Asia  (excluding  China  Division)  +8%,  Continental  Europe  +11%,  Middle  East  +24% 
and  Latin  America  +12%. 

In  our  emerging  markets  like  India,  Russia  and  Vietnam,  we  can  leverage  our  core 
strategic  advantage  and  capability  to  develop  global  markets.  For  instance,  last  year 
I  had  the  opportunity  to  visit  Vietnam,  where  there  are  85  million  people.  We  are  in 
our  early  days  there,  but  we  are  making  great  progress  with  56  KFC  restaurants  open 
to  date  and  a  plan  this  year  to  open  up  additional  Pizza  Huts  as  well. 


We  are  clearly  mindful  of  the  need  to  develop  new  growth  opportunities,  and  that’s 
why  we  are  constantly  testing  and  building  global  sales  growth  initiatives  that  will 
take  our  brands  to  even  higher  sales  levels.  Successful  examples  include  the  KFC 
breakfast  menus  in  Asia  and  the  United  Kingdom;  fish  at  KFC  restaurants  in  the 
Middle  East  and  Caribbean,  Pizza  FlutTea  Time  in  Indonesia,  marketing  the  Pizza  Hut 
enhanced  dine-in  experience  in  Flong  Kong,  and  a  new  drink  innovation  -  Krushers 
-  in  Australia.  Krushers  began  with  a  one-unit  test  in  Australia  early  in  2008,  and  we 
now  have  them  in  over  100  restaurants  in  10  countries.  Our  customers  love  it  and  it 
is  becoming  a  sustainable  sales  layer  to  build  on  in  more  countries. 

Pizza  Flome  Delivery  (PFID),  our  new  delivery  focused  brand,  is  operating  in  11 
countries  with  64  restaurants  and  we  are  seeing  encouraging  results  as  we  test  and 
prove  out  this  new  pizza  delivery  concept. 

Finally,  given  the  popularity  of  Taco  Bell  and  the  fact  that  it  is  the  second  most 
profitable  brand  in  the  U.S.,  we  are  committed  to  developing  it  into  our  third  global 
mega-brand  based  on  our  successful  expansion  in  Guatemala,  Costa  Rica  and  the 
Philippines.  We  launched  Taco  Bell  in  Mexico  and  Dubai  in  2008,  with  plans  to 
expand  it  into  India  and  Spain  this  year. 

Also  in  2008,  we  enjoyed  a  $100  million  pretax  gain  from  the  sale  of  our  minority 
interest  in  KFC  Japan  -  a  positive  example  of  the  financial  discipline  we  use  in 
making  ownership  decisions. 

YRI  made  $528  million  in  operating  profit  during  2008,  and  together  with  China, 
accounts  for  about  60%  of  our  operating  profits  compared  to  just  20%  in  1997. 

With  the  benefit  of  increasing  global  prosperity,  our  strong  global  competitive 
positioning,  massive,  under-penetrated  markets,  aggressive  franchisee-led  growth 
and  exciting  new  growth  drivers,  you  can  see  why  we  view  YRI  as  our  division  with 
the  greatest  long-term  potential. 

We  are  now  truly  a  global  powerhouse  with  a  realistic  new-unit  development 
opportunity  that  is  unmatched  by  anyone  in  restaurants  or  retail.  In  fact,  we  think 
YRI’s  global  potential  will  reach  at  least  40,000  restaurants  to  go  along  with  our 
projected  20,000  restaurant  estimate  for  China. 


#3 

DRAMATICALLY  IMPROVE  U.S.  BRAND  POSITIONS, 

CONSISTENCY  &  RETURNS. 


Our  two  largest  U.S.  businesses,  Taco  Bell  and  Pizza  Hut,  both  delivered  solid 
same  store  sales  and  profit  growth  for  the  full  year  in  2008.  KFC,  however,  continues 
to  lag  behind  the  rest  of  our  U.S.  brands  and  it,  along  with  unprecedented  commodity 
inflation,  were  drivers  of  under  performing  profit  performance  in  the  U.S.  business 
overall. 


We  are  confident  we’re  taking  the  right  steps  to  deliver  stronger  brand  positioning, 
higher  returns  and  consistent  growth  performance  to  unlock  the  value  inherent  in  our 
18,000  U.S.  restaurants.  Our  category-leading  U.S.  based  brands  have  continually 
demonstrated  outstanding  unit  economics  on  a  stand-alone  basis  and  generated 
$715  million  in  franchise  and  license  fees  in  2008,  but  we  have  fallen  short  in  our 
goal  to  grow  profits  by  at  least  5%  every  year. 

As  we  go  forward,  we  have  a  laser-like  focus  to  better  leverage  our  substantial  U.S. 
restaurant  asset  base  with  sales  growth  in  these  five  areas: 

1)  MORE  OPTIONS  FOR  CONSUMERS  ACROSS  OUR  MENU 

2)  MORE  CONTEMPORARY  BEVERAGE  OPTIONS  &  UNIQUE  DESSERTS 

3)  EXPANDED  DAY  PARTS 

4)  BROADER  PROTEIN  OFFERINGS 

5)  CONTEMPORARY  ASSETS 

Taco  Bell  is  the  best-positioned  brand  in  this  macro  economic  environment  with  the 
#1  value  rating  of  any  other  brand  in  the  industry.  We’re  also  proud  of  Taco  Bell  for 
being  a  leader  in  the  industry  through  the  use  of  a  multi-layer  marketing  approach 
throughout  the  year  to  help  drive  trial  and  build  awareness. 

In  2008,  we  launched  the  hugely  successful  Frutista  Freeze  at  Taco  Bell  and 
enhanced  the  brand’s  Why  Pay  More  value  menu.  Consider  this:  Taco  Bell’s  89-cent 
Cheesy  Double  Beef  burrito  has  38%  more  food  and  30%  more  beef  than  McDonald’s 
value-priced  Double  Cheeseburger.  Now  that's  a  great  value! 

Last  year,  too,  Taco  Bell  introduced  its  Volcano  Taco,  which  opened  a  major  area  of 
innovation  around  our  core  product  of  tacos;  and  we  are  aggressively  going  after  the 
dinner  day  part  with  unique  packaging  and  bundled  meals.  The  pipeline  at  Taco  Bell 
is  full  and  only  getting  fuller. 


We  fully  recognize  that  Pizza  Hut  is  in  a  challenging  category, 
but  we  pulled  away  from  the  pack  in  2008,  when  we  introduced 
ourTuscani  Pastas  (Creamy  Chicken  Alfredo,  Meaty  Marinara, 
Premium  Bacon  Mac’  N  Cheese)  and  we  have  more  to  come 
in  2009.  The  new  pastas,  one  of  Pizza  Hut’s  most  important 
and  successful  product  launches  in  its  50-year  history,  helped 
make  Tuscani  Pastas  a  $500  million  product  line  that  provides 
customers  with  an  affordable  break  from  weekday  kitchen  duty. 


Pizza  Hut  also  got  a  bounce  last  year  out  of  its  Pizza  Mia  which  is  great  for  groups 
that  want  a  lot  of  pizza  at  a  low  price  -  $5  each  when  you  buy  three.  P’Zone  is 
another  great  value  for  individuals.  It  weighs  in  at  over  a  pound  and  sells  for  $6.99. 
Pizza  Hut  is  gaining  solid  momentum,  too,  with  its  WingStreet  conversions.  We're 
opening  approximately  100  new  WingStreets  a  month  with  national  scale  within  our 
sights  in  2009.  This  branded  line  of  flavored  chicken  wings  will  be  in  a  position  to 
advertise  on  national  television  by  the  end  of  2009. 

KFC,  our  only  major  soft  spot,  had  a  challenging  year.  President  Gregg  Dedrick  retired 
and  he  was  replaced  by  Roger  Eaton,  who  brings  tremendous  experience  leading  our 
businesses,  including  seven  years  running  the  Australian  market,  where  he  delivered 
consistent  same  store  sales  growth  in  a  highly  competitive,  highly  penetrated  market. 
Most  recently,  he  was  Yuml's  Chief  Operating  and  Development  Officer.  Roger  is  a 
great  leader  who  hit  the  ground  running  and  who  is  already  driving  initiatives  and 
leveraging  successes  we’ve  had  in  other  markets  around  the  globe. 

Last  year  KFC  introduced  its  great-tasting,  value-priced  toasted  chicken  wrap,  Original 
Recipe  Strips,  and  made  its  $10  grocery  store  challenge  with  a  seven-piece  family 
meal  that  you  can’t  buy  for  $9.99  at  a  grocery  store.  That  was  part  of  the  strategy 
of  providing  dinner  value  to  customers  in  today's  environment. 

We’re  encouraged  that  KFC’s  turnaround  is  underway,  but  we  still  must  overcome 
two  obstacles:  non-fried  options  and  value.  In  the  non-fried  arena,  we’re  laying  the 
foundation  for  a  second  quarter  2009  launch  of  Kentucky  Grilled  Chicken  by  investing 
in  new  ovens  with  the  unanimous  support  of  our  franchisees.  The  grilled  product  has 
undergone  the  longest  test  in  KFC  history  and  consumer  reaction  to  the  product  is 
great.  They  love  the  taste  and  the  fact  that  we  are  addressing  the  pent  up  desire 
fora  non-fried  product  from  KFC. 

KFC  also  introduced  a  new  value  menu  in  early  2009,  along  with  an 
advertising  campaign  showcasing  the  brand's  “Fresh  Tastes  Best" 
campaign.  This  campaign  focuses  on  KFC  restaurants  having  a  trained 
cook  on  hand  to  bread  all  Original  Recipe  chicken  on  the  bone  fresh  daily. 

I  should  mention,  too,  how  proud  I  am  that  our  U.S.  brands  will  be  the 
first  chains  in  the  industry  to  post  product  calorie  information  on  their 
respective  menu  boards  in  company-owned  restaurants  nationwide  by 
January  1,  2011.  All  meals  can  be  part  of  a  balanced  diet  and  we  recognize 
our  responsibility  to  continue  to  educate  consumers  about  their  choices. 

Finally,  we  are  driving  even  more  urgency  around  our  operations  and  executing 
to  our  standards.  We  know  we  can  run  much  better  restaurants  and  provide  much 
more  consistent  quality  and  service  that  our  customers  expect. 


U.S.  BRAND  ONGOING  GROWTH  MODEL:  5% 


JPERATING  PROFIT  GROWTH; 


#4 

DRIVE  INDUSTRY  LEADING  LONG-TERM 

SHAREHOLDER  &  FRANCHISEE  VALUE. 


The  good  news  is  that  at  20%,  our  Return  On  Invested  Capital  (ROIC)  ranks  us 
high  among  other  global  companies.  So,  we’re  going  forward  from  a  position  of 
real  strength. 

Any  way  you  look  at  it,  Yum!  Brands  is  an  incredible  cash  machine,  with  each 
of  our  divisions  generating  free  cash  flow  -  or  effectively  funding  their  own 
capital  investments.  As  this  capital  is  deployed  to  high-return  opportunities  - 
for  example,  new  restaurants  in  China,  where  the  cash  payback  is  approximately 
two  years  -  we  expect  total  returns  to  remain  strong.  These  returns  will  further 
improve  as  we  continue  to  refranchise  restaurants,  which  will  increase  our 
franchise  fees  -  currently  amounting  to  $1.4  billion  -  with  minimal 
capital  investment. 

We’re  proud  of  the  fact  that  for  2008  we  were  one  of  the  few  companies  that 
could  make  significant  capital  investments  (over  $900  million),  AND  make  great 
investments  in  large  scale  buybacks  (reducing  outstanding  shares  by  9%)  AND 
pay  a  meaningful  dividend  (2.5%  yield)  AND  grow  EPS  in  the  double  digits.  I  think 
it’s  safe  to  say  there  are  not  that  many  companies  that  could  do  this. 
SHAREHOLDER  AND  FRANCHISEE  VALUE  ONGOING  MODEL: 

MAINTAIN  AN  INDUSTRY  LEADING  RETURN  ON  INVESTED  CAPITAL  OF 
20%;  RETURN  MEANINGFUL  VALUE  TO  SHAREHOLDERS  THROUGH  SHARE 
REPURCHASES  AND  A  DIVIDEND  PAY-OUT  RATIO  OF  35-40%  OF  NET  INCOME. 


10 

i/. global-reports. c 


Yum/  dynasty 


growth  model 


our  goal 


Be  the  Best  in  the  World  at  Building  Great  Brands  and  Running  Great  Restaurants! 


our  passion 

Customer  Mania...  put  a  YUM  on 
customers'  faces  around  the  world 


our  formula 
for  success 

People  Capability  First...  satisfied 
customers  and  profitability  follow 


hOW  We  lead  (with  intentionality) 


Step  Change  Thinkers 
Know  How  Builders 
Action  Drivers 
People  Growers 


how  we  grow 


Build  leading 
brands  in  China  in 
every  significant 
category 


Drive  aggressive, 
International 
expansion  and 
build  strong  brands 
everywhere 


Dramatically 
improve  U.S. 
brand  positions, 
consistency 
and  returns 


Drive  industry¬ 
leading,  long-term 
shareholder  and 
franchisee  value 


how  we  win  together  (hwwt)2 


Believe  in  AM  People 
We  Are  Customer  Maniacs 
Recognize!  Recognize!  Recognize! 


Go  for  Breakthrough 
Build  Know  How 
Take  the  Hill  Teamwork 


...as  one  system 


An  American  Food 


t* 

TACO 


YUM!  Brands,  Inc. 


1441  Gardiner  Lane 
Louisville,  Kentucky  40213 


April  7,  2009 


Dear  Fellow  Shareholders: 

On  behalf  of  your  Board  of  Directors,  we  are  pleased  to  invite  you  to  attend  the  2009  Annual  Meeting  of 
Shareholders  of  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  The  meeting  will  be  held  Thursday,  May  21,  2009,  at  9:00  a.m.,  local 
time,  in  the  YUM!  Conference  Center  at  1900  Colonel  Sanders  Lane  in  Louisville,  Kentucky. 

This  year  we  are  pleased  to  take  advantage  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  rule  allowing 
companies  to  furnish  proxy  materials  to  their  shareholders  over  the  Internet.  We  believe  that  this  e-proxy 
process  expedites  shareholders’  receipt  of  proxy  materials,  while  also  lowering  the  costs  and  reducing  the 
environmental  impact  of  our  Annual  Meeting. 

Whether  or  not  you  plan  to  attend  the  meeting,  your  vote  is  important  and  we  encourage  you  to  vote 
promptly.  You  may  vote  your  shares  via  a  toll-free  telephone  number  or  over  the  Internet.  If  you  received  a 
paper  copy  of  the  proxy  card  by  mail,  you  may  sign,  date  and  mail  the  proxy  card  in  the  envelope  provided. 
Instructions  regarding  the  three  methods  of  voting  are  contained  on  the  Notice  or  proxy  card. 

If  you  plan  to  attend  the  meeting,  please  bring  your  Notice,  admission  ticket  from  your  proxy  card  or  proof 
of  your  ownership  of  YUM  common  stock  as  of  March  23,  2009  as  well  as  a  valid  picture  identification. 
Your  vote  is  important.  Whether  or  not  you  attend  the  meeting,  we  encourage  you  to  consider  the  matters 
presented  in  the  proxy  statement  and  vote  as  soon  as  possible. 


Sincerely, 


David  C.  Novak 

Chairman  of  the  Board  and  Chief  Executive  Officer 


Important  Notice  Regarding  the  Availability  of  Proxy  Materials  for  the  Shareholders  Meeting  to  Be  Held  on 
May  21,  2009 — this  Notice  and  proxy  statement  is  available  at  www.yum.comlinvestorslinvestorjnaterials.asp 
and  the  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  is  available  at  www.yum.com/investorslannualreportl. 


YUM!  Brands,  Inc. 
1441  Gardiner  Lane 
Louisville,  Kentucky  40213 


Notice  of  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders 


Time: 

Place: 


Items  of 
Business: 


9:00  a.m.  on  Thursday,  May  21,  2009 

YUM!  Conference  Center 

1900  Colonel  Sanders  Lane 

Louisville,  Kentucky  40213 

(1)  To  elect  thirteen  (13)  directors  to  serve  until  the  2010  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders 
and  until  their  respective  successors  are  duly  elected  and  qualified. 

(2)  To  ratify  the  selection  of  KPMG  LLP  as  our  independent  auditors  for  the  fiscal  year 
ending  December  26,  2009. 

(3)  To  approve  the  Company’s  Executive  Incentive  Compensation  Plan. 

(4)  To  consider  and  vote  on  5  shareholder  proposals  described  in  the  attached  proxy 
statement,  if  properly  presented  at  the  meeting. 

(5)  To  transact  such  other  business  as  may  properly  come  before  the  meeting. 


Who  Can  Vote:  You  can  vote  if  you  were  a  shareholder  of  record  as  of  the  close  of  business  on  March  23, 
2009. 


Annual  Report:  A  copy  of  our  2008  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  is  included  with  this  proxy  statement. 

Web  site:  You  may  also  read  the  Company’s  Annual  Report  and  this  notice  and  proxy  statement  on 

our  Web  site  at  www.yum.com/investors/annualreport/  and 
www.yum.  com/investors /investor jnaterials.  asp . 

Date  of  Mailing:  This  notice,  the  proxy  statement  and  the  form  of  proxy  are  first  being  mailed  to  shareholders 
on  or  about  April  7,  2009. 


By  Order  of  the  Board  of  Directors 


Christian  L.  Campbell 
Secretary 


YOUR  VOTE  IS  IMPORTANT 

It  is  important  that  your  shares  are  represented  and  voted  at  the  Annual  Meeting.  Whether  or  not  you  plan  to 
attend  the  meeting,  please  provide  your  proxy  by  following  the  instructions  on  your  Notice  or  proxy  card.  On 
April  7,  2009,  we  mailed  to  our  shareholders  a  Notice  containing  instructions  on  how  to  access  this  proxy 
statement  and  our  Annual  Report  and  vote  online.  If  you  received  a  Notice  by  mail,  you  will  not  receive  a 
printed  copy  of  the  proxy  materials  in  the  mail,  unless  you  request  a  copy.  Instead,  you  should  follow  the 
instructions  included  in  the  Notice  on  how  to  access  and  review  all  of  the  important  information  contained  in  the 
proxy  statement  and  Annual  Report.  The  Notice  also  instructs  you  on  how  you  may  submit  your  vote  by  proxy 
over  the  Internet.  If  you  received  the  proxy  statement  and  Annual  Report  in  the  mail,  please  submit  your  proxy 
by  marking,  dating  and  signing  the  proxy  card  included  and  returning  it  promptly  in  the  envelope  enclosed.  If 
you  are  able  to  attend  the  meeting  and  wish  to  vote  your  shares  personally,  you  may  do  so  at  any  time  before  the 
proxy  is  exercised. 

If  you  hold  your  common  stock  in  street  name  and  do  not  provide  voting  instructions  to  your  broker,  your 
shares  will  not  be  voted  on  any  proposal  for  which  your  broker  does  not  have  discretionary  authority  to  vote. 
Brokers  do  not  have  discretionary  authority  to  vote  on  any  of  the  proposals,  except  the  election  of  directors,  the 
ratification  of  the  selection  of  KPMG  LLP  as  our  independent  auditors  for  fiscal  year  2009  and  the  Company’s 
proposal  to  approve  the  Executive  Incentive  Compensation  Plan. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


GENERAL  INFORMATION  ABOUT  THE  MEETING .  1 

GOVERNANCE  OF  THE  COMPANY  .  6 

MATTERS  REQUIRING  SHAREHOLDER  ACTION .  13 

Item  1:  Election  of  Directors .  13 

Item  2:  Ratification  of  Independent  Auditors .  16 

Item  3:  A  Proposal  to  Approve  the  Company’s  Executive  Incentive  Compensation  Plan  .  18 

Item  4:  Shareholder  Proposal  Relating  to  Shareholder  Rights  Plan  .  21 

Item  5:  Shareholder  Proposal  Relating  to  an  Advisory  Shareholder  Vote  to  Ratify 

Executive  Compensation .  23 

Item  6:  Shareholder  Proposal  Relating  to  Food  Supply  Chain  Security  and  Sustainability  27 

Item  7:  Shareholder  Proposal  Relating  to  Healthcare  Reform  Principles .  31 

Item  8:  Shareholder  Proposal  Relating  to  Animal  Welfare .  33 

STOCK  OWNERSHIP  INFORMATION .  36 

EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION .  39 

Compensation  Discussion  and  Analysis  .  39 

Compensation  Committee  Report .  58 

Summary  Compensation  Table .  59 

All  Other  Compensation  Table  .  62 

Grants  of  Plan-Based  Awards .  63 

Outstanding  Equity  Awards  at  Fiscal  Year-End .  65 

Option  Exercises  and  Stock  Vested .  67 

Pension  Benefits .  67 

Nonqualified  Deferred  Compensation .  71 

Potential  Payments  Upon  Termination  or  Change  in  Control .  73 

DIRECTOR  COMPENSATION .  76 

EQUITY  COMPENSATION  PLAN  INFORMATION .  78 

AUDIT  COMMITTEE  REPORT .  80 

ADDITIONAL  INFORMATION .  82 

EXECUTIVE  INCENTIVE  COMPENSATION  PLAN  Exhibit  A 

AUDIT  COMMITTEE  CHARTER  Exhibit  B 

AUDIT  COMMITTEE  PRE-APPROVAL  POLICY  Exhibit  C 

Appendices  1  through  4 — Companies  included  in  consultant  survey  data 


YUM!  BRANDS,  INC. 
1441  Gardiner  Lane 
Louisville,  Kentucky  40213 


PROXY  STATEMENT 
For  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders  To  Be  Held  On 
May  21,  2009 


The  Board  of  Directors  (the  “Board  of  Directors”  or  the  “Board”)  of  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.,  a  North 
Carolina  corporation  (“YUM”  or  the  “Company”),  solicits  the  enclosed  proxy  for  use  at  the  Annual 
Meeting  of  Shareholders  of  the  Company  to  be  held  at  9:00  a.m.  (Eastern  Daylight  Saving  Time),  on 
Thursday,  May  21,  2009,  in  the  YUM!  Conference  Center,  at  1900  Colonel  Sanders  Lane,  Louisville, 
Kentucky.  This  proxy  statement  contains  information  about  the  matters  to  be  voted  on  at  the  Annual 
Meeting  and  the  voting  process,  as  well  as  information  about  our  directors  and  most  highly  paid  executive 
officers. 


GENERAL  INFORMATION  ABOUT  THE  MEETING 
What  is  the  purpose  of  the  Annual  Meeting? 

At  our  Annual  Meeting,  shareholders  will  vote  on  several  important  Company  matters.  In  addition, 
our  management  will  report  on  the  Company’s  performance  over  the  last  fiscal  year  and,  following  the 
meeting,  respond  to  questions  from  shareholders. 

Why  am  I  receiving  these  materials? 

You  received  these  materials  because  our  Board  of  Directors  is  soliciting  your  proxy  to  vote  your 
shares  at  the  Annual  Meeting.  As  a  shareholder,  you  are  invited  to  attend  the  meeting  and  are  entitled  to 
vote  on  the  items  of  business  described  in  this  proxy  statement. 

Why  did  I  receive  a  one-page  Notice  in  the  mail  regarding  the  Internet  availability  of  proxy  materials  this  year 
instead  of  a  full  set  of  proxy  materials? 

As  permitted  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  rules,  we  are  making  this  proxy  statement  and 
its  Annual  Report  available  to  our  shareholders  electronically  via  the  Internet.  On  April  7,  2009,  we  mailed 
to  our  shareholders  a  Notice  containing  instructions  on  how  to  access  this  proxy  statement  and  our  Annual 
Report  and  vote  online.  If  you  received  a  Notice  by  mail,  you  will  not  receive  a  printed  copy  of  the  proxy 
materials  in  the  mail,  unless  you  request  a  copy.  The  Notice  instructs  you  on  how  to  access  and  review  all 
of  the  important  information  contained  in  the  proxy  statement  and  Annual  Report.  The  Notice  also 
instructs  you  on  how  you  may  submit  your  proxy  over  the  Internet.  If  you  received  a  Notice  by  mail  and 
would  like  to  receive  a  printed  copy  of  our  proxy  materials,  you  should  follow  the  instructions  for 
requesting  such  materials  contained  on  the  Notice. 

We  encourage  you  to  take  advantage  of  the  availability  of  the  proxy  materials  on  the  Internet  in  order 
to  help  reduce  the  environmental  impact  of  the  Annual  Meeting. 

Who  may  attend  the  Annual  Meeting? 

All  shareholders  of  record  as  of  March  23,  2009,  or  their  duly  appointed  proxies,  may  attend  the 
meeting.  Seating  is  limited  and  admission  is  on  a  first-come,  first-served  basis.  Please  refer  to  “How  can  I 
attend  the  meeting?”  on  page  4  for  information  about  what  you  will  need  to  bring  to  the  meeting. 


1 


What  am  I  voting  on? 

You  will  be  voting  on  the  following  8  items  of  business  at  the  Annual  Meeting: 

•  The  election  of  thirteen  (13)  directors  to  serve  until  the  next  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders  and 
until  their  respective  successors  are  duly  elected  and  qualified; 

•  The  ratification  of  the  selection  of  KPMG  LLP  as  our  independent  auditors  for  the  fiscal  year 
ending  December  26,  2009; 

•  The  approval  of  the  Company’s  Executive  Incentive  Compensation  Plan; 

•  The  consideration  of  a  shareholder  proposal  relating  to  a  Shareholder  Rights  Plan; 

•  The  consideration  of  a  shareholder  proposal  relating  to  an  Advisory  Shareholder  Vote  to  Ratify 
Compensation; 

•  The  consideration  of  a  shareholder  proposal  relating  to  Food  Supply  Chain  Security  and 
Sustainability; 

•  The  consideration  of  a  shareholder  proposal  relating  to  Healthcare  Reform  Principles;  and 

•  The  consideration  of  a  shareholder  proposal  relating  to  Animal  Welfare. 

We  will  also  consider  other  business  that  properly  comes  before  the  meeting. 


Who  may  vote? 

You  may  vote  if  you  owned  YUM  common  stock  as  of  the  close  of  business  on  the  record  date, 
March  23,  2009.  Each  share  of  YUM  common  stock  is  entitled  to  one  vote.  As  of  March  23,  2009,  YUM 
had  460,802,208  shares  of  common  stock  outstanding. 

How  does  the  Board  of  Directors  recommend  that  I  vote? 

Our  Board  of  Directors  recommends  that  you  vote  your  shares: 

•  “FOR”  each  of  the  nominees  named  in  this  proxy  statement  for  election  to  the  Board, 

•  “FOR”  the  ratification  of  the  selection  of  KPMG  LLP  as  our  independent  auditors, 

•  “FOR”  the  proposal  to  approve  the  Company’s  Executive  Incentive  Compensation  Plan,  and 

•  “AGAINST”  the  shareholder  proposals. 


How  do  I  vote  before  the  meeting? 

There  are  three  ways  to  vote  before  the  meeting: 

•  By  Internet — If  you  have  Internet  access,  we  encourage  you  to  vote  on  www.proxyvote.com  by 
following  instructions  on  the  Notice  or  proxy  card; 

•  By  telephone — by  making  a  toll-free  telephone  call  from  the  U.S.  or  Canada  to  1(800)  690-6903  (if 
you  have  any  questions  about  how  to  vote  over  the  phone,  call  1(888)  298-6986);  or 

•  By  mail — If  you  received  your  proxy  materials  by  mail,  you  can  vote  by  completing,  signing  and 
returning  the  enclosed  proxy  card  in  the  postage-paid  envelope  provided. 

If  you  choose  to  vote  through  the  Internet,  you  will  be  responsible  for  any  costs  associated  with 
electronic  access,  such  as  usage  charges  from  Internet  service  providers  and  telephone  companies. 


2 


i/. global-reports. c 


If  you  are  a  participant  in  the  Direct  Stock  Purchase  Plan,  the  administrator  of  this  program,  as  the 
shareholder  of  record,  may  only  vote  the  shares  for  which  it  has  received  directions  to  vote  from 
participants. 

If  you  are  a  participant  in  the  YUM!  Brands  401(k)  Plan  (“401(k)  Plan”),  Federal  law  requires  us  to 
send  you  proxy  materials  by  mail.  The  trustee  of  the  401(k)  Plan  will  only  vote  the  shares  for  which  it  has 
received  directions  to  vote  from  participants. 

Proxies  submitted  through  the  Internet  or  by  telephone  as  described  above  must  be  received  by 
11:59  p.m.,  Eastern  Daylight  Saving  Time,  on  May  20,  2009.  Proxies  submitted  by  mail  must  be  received 
prior  to  the  meeting.  Proxies  submitted  by  401(k)  Plan  participants  must  be  received  by  12:00  p.m.,  Eastern 
Daylight  Saving  Time  on  May  19,  2009. 

Also,  if  you  hold  your  shares  in  the  name  of  a  bank  or  broker,  your  ability  to  vote  by  telephone  or  the 
Internet  depends  on  their  voting  processes.  Please  follow  the  directions  on  your  Notice  carefully.  A  number  of 
brokerage  firms  and  banks  participate  in  a  program  provided  through  Broadridge  Financial  Solutions,  Inc. 
(“Broadridge”)  that  offers  telephone  and  Internet  voting  options.  If  your  shares  are  held  in  an  account 
with  a  brokerage  firm  or  bank  participating  in  the  Broadridge  program,  you  may  vote  those  shares 
telephonically  by  calling  the  telephone  number  shown  on  the  voting  instruction  form  received  from  your 
brokerage  firm  or  bank,  or  through  the  Internet  at  Broadridge’s  voting  Web  site  ( www.proxyvote.com ). 
Votes  submitted  through  the  Internet  or  by  telephone  through  the  Broadridge  program  must  be  received 
by  11:59  p.m.,  Eastern  Daylight  Saving  Time,  on  May  20,  2009. 

Can  I  vote  at  the  meeting? 

Shares  registered  directly  in  your  name  as  the  shareholder  of  record  may  be  voted  in  person  at  the 
Annual  Meeting.  Shares  held  in  street  name  may  be  voted  in  person  only  if  you  obtain  a  legal  proxy  from 
the  broker  or  nominee  that  holds  your  shares  giving  you  the  right  to  vote  the  shares.  Even  if  you  plan  to 
attend  the  meeting,  we  encourage  you  to  vote  your  shares  by  proxy.  You  may  still  vote  your  shares  in 
person  at  the  meeting  even  if  you  have  previously  voted  by  proxy. 

Can  I  change  my  mind  after  I  vote? 

You  may  change  your  vote  at  any  time  before  the  polls  close  at  the  meeting.  You  may  do  this  by: 

•  signing  another  proxy  card  with  a  later  date  and  returning  it  to  us  prior  to  the  meeting; 

•  voting  again  by  telephone  or  through  the  Internet  prior  to  11:59  p.m.,  Eastern  Daylight  Saving 
Time,  on  May  20,  2009; 

•  giving  written  notice  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Company;  or 

•  voting  again  at  the  meeting. 

Your  attendance  at  the  meeting  will  not  have  the  effect  of  revoking  a  proxy  unless  you  notify  our 
Corporate  Secretary  in  writing  before  the  polls  close  that  you  wish  to  revoke  a  previous  proxy. 

Who  will  count  the  votes? 

Representatives  of  American  Stock  Transfer  and  Trust  Company  will  count  the  votes  and  will  serve  as 
the  independent  inspector  of  election. 

What  if  I  return  my  proxy  card  but  do  not  provide  voting  instructions? 

If  you  vote  by  proxy  card,  your  shares  will  be  voted  as  you  instruct  by  the  individuals  named  on  the 
proxy  card.  If  you  sign  and  return  a  proxy  card  but  do  not  specify  how  your  shares  are  to  be  voted,  the 


3 


persons  named  as  proxies  on  the  proxy  card  will  vote  your  shares  in  accordance  with  the  recommendations 
of  the  Board.  These  recommendations  are: 

•  FOR  the  election  of  the  thirteen  (13)  nominees  for  director  named  in  this  proxy  statement; 

•  FOR  the  ratification  of  the  selection  of  KPMG  LLP  as  our  independent  auditors  for  the  fiscal  year 
2009; 

•  FOR  the  approval  of  the  Company’s  Executive  Incentive  Compensation  Plan;  and 

•  AGAINST  the  shareholder  proposals. 

What  does  it  mean  if  I  receive  more  than  one  proxy  card? 

It  means  that  you  have  multiple  accounts  with  brokers  and/or  our  transfer  agent.  Please  vote  all  of 
these  shares.  We  recommend  that  you  contact  your  broker  and/or  our  transfer  agent  to  consolidate  as 
many  accounts  as  possible  under  the  same  name  and  address.  Our  transfer  agent  is  American  Stock 
Transfer  and  Trust  Company,  which  may  be  reached  at  1(888)  439-4986. 

Will  my  shares  be  voted  if  I  do  not  provide  my  proxy? 

Your  shares  may  be  voted  if  they  are  held  in  the  name  of  a  brokerage  firm,  even  if  you  do  not  provide 
the  brokerage  firm  with  voting  instructions.  Brokerage  firms  have  the  authority  under  the  New  York  Stock 
Exchange  rules  to  vote  shares  for  which  their  customers  do  not  provide  voting  instructions  on  certain 
“routine”  matters. 

The  election  of  directors,  the  proposal  to  ratify  the  selection  of  KPMG  LLP  as  our  independent 
auditors  for  fiscal  year  2009  and  the  proposal  to  approve  the  Executive  Incentive  Compensation  Plan  are 
considered  routine  matters  for  which  brokerage  firms  may  vote  shares  for  which  they  have  not  received 
voting  instructions.  The  other  proposals  to  be  voted  on  at  our  meeting  are  not  considered  “routine”  under 
applicable  rules.  When  a  proposal  is  not  a  routine  matter  and  the  brokerage  firm  has  not  received  voting 
instructions  from  the  beneficial  owner  of  the  shares  with  respect  to  that  proposal,  the  brokerage  firm 
cannot  vote  the  shares  on  that  proposal.  This  is  called  a  “broker  non-vote.” 

How  can  I  attend  the  meeting? 

The  Annual  Meeting  is  open  to  all  holders  of  YUM  common  stock  as  of  the  close  of  business  on 
March  23,  2009,  or  their  duly  appointed  proxies.  You  will  need  a  valid  picture  identification  and  either  an 
admission  ticket  or  proof  of  ownership  of  YUM’s  common  stock  to  enter  the  meeting.  If  you  are  a 
registered  owner,  your  Notice  will  be  your  admission  ticket.  If  you  received  the  proxy  statement  and 
Annual  Report  by  mail,  you  will  find  an  admission  ticket  attached  to  the  proxy  card  sent  to  you.  If  you  plan 
to  attend  the  meeting,  please  so  indicate  when  you  vote  and  bring  the  ticket  with  you  to  the  meeting.  If 
your  shares  are  held  in  the  name  of  a  bank,  broker  or  other  holder  of  record,  your  admission  ticket  is  the 
left  side  of  your  voting  information  form.  If  you  do  not  bring  your  admission  ticket,  you  will  need  proof  of 
ownership  to  be  admitted  to  the  meeting.  A  recent  brokerage  statement  or  letter  from  a  bank  or  broker  is 
an  example  of  proof  of  ownership.  If  you  arrive  at  the  meeting  without  an  admission  ticket,  we  will  admit 
you  only  if  we  are  able  to  verify  that  you  are  a  YUM  shareholder.  Your  admittance  to  the  Annual  Meeting 
will  depend  upon  availability  of  seating.  All  shareholders  will  be  required  to  present  valid  picture 
identification  prior  to  admittance.  IF  YOU  DO  NOT  HAVE  VALID  PICTURE  IDENTIFICATION 
AND  EITHER  AN  ADMISSION  TICKET  OR  PROOF  THAT  YOU  OWN  YUM  COMMON  STOCK, 
YOU  MAY  NOT  BE  ADMITTED  INTO  THE  MEETING. 

Please  note  that  cameras,  sound  or  video  recording  equipment,  cellular  telephones,  blackberries  and 
other  similar  devices,  large  bags,  briefcases  and  packages  will  not  be  allowed  in  the  meeting  room. 


May  shareholders  ask  questions? 

Yes.  Representatives  of  the  Company  will  answer  shareholders’  questions  of  general  interest  following 
the  meeting.  In  order  to  give  a  greater  number  of  shareholders  an  opportunity  to  ask  questions,  individuals 
or  groups  will  be  allowed  to  ask  only  one  question  and  no  repetitive  or  follow-up  questions  will  be 
permitted. 

How  many  votes  must  be  present  to  hold  the  meeting? 

Your  shares  are  counted  as  present  at  the  meeting  if  you  attend  the  meeting  in  person  or  if  you 
properly  return  a  proxy  by  Internet,  telephone  or  mail.  In  order  for  us  to  conduct  our  meeting,  a  majority 
of  the  outstanding  shares  of  YUM  common  stock,  as  of  March  23,  2009,  must  be  present  in  person  or 
represented  by  proxy  at  the  meeting.  This  is  referred  to  as  a  quorum.  Abstentions  and  broker  non-votes 
will  be  counted  for  purposes  of  establishing  a  quorum  at  the  meeting. 

How  many  votes  are  needed  to  elect  directors? 

You  may  vote  “FOR”  each  nominee  or  “AGAINST”  each  nominee,  or  ‘ABSTAIN”  from  voting  on 
one  or  more  nominees.  Unless  you  mark  ‘AGAINST”  or  ‘ABSTAIN”  with  respect  to  a  particular  nominee 
or  nominees  or  for  all  nominees,  your  proxy  will  be  voted  “FOR”  each  of  the  director  nominees  named  in 
this  proxy  statement.  In  an  uncontested  election,  a  nominee  will  be  elected  as  a  director  if  the  number  of 
“FOR”  votes  exceeds  the  number  of  “AGAINST”  votes.  Abstentions  will  be  counted  as  present  but  not 
voted.  Full  details  of  the  Company’s  majority  voting  policy  are  set  out  in  our  Corporate  Governance 
Principles  at  www.yum.com/govemance/principles.asp  and  at  page  11  under  “What  other  Significant  Board 
Practices  does  the  Company  have? — Majority  Voting  Policy.” 

How  many  votes  are  needed  to  approve  the  other  proposals? 

Each  of  the  Company’s  proposals  and  the  shareholder  proposals  will  be  considered  separately.  The 
approval  of  the  Executive  Incentive  Compensation  Plan  and  ratification  of  the  selection  of  KPMG  LLP  as 
our  independent  auditors,  and  the  shareholder  proposals  must  receive  the  “FOR”  vote  of  a  majority  of  the 
shares,  present  in  person  or  represented  by  proxy,  and  entitled  to  vote  at  the  meeting.  For  each  of  these 
items,  you  may  vote  “FOR”,  ‘AGAINST”  OR  “ABSTAIN.”  Abstentions  will  be  counted  as  shares  present 
and  entitled  to  vote  at  the  meeting.  Accordingly,  abstentions  will  have  the  same  effect  as  a  vote 
“AGAINST”  the  proposals.  Broker  non-votes  will  not  be  counted  as  shares  present  and  entitled  to  vote 
with  respect  to  the  particular  matter  on  which  the  broker  has  not  voted.  Thus,  broker  non-votes  will  not 
affect  the  outcome  of  any  of  these  proposals. 

What  if  other  matters  are  presented  for  consideration  at  the  Annual  Meeting? 

As  of  the  date  of  this  proxy  statement,  our  management  knows  of  no  matters  that  will  be  presented  for 
consideration  at  the  meeting  other  than  those  matters  discussed  in  this  proxy  statement.  If  any  other 
matters  properly  come  before  the  meeting  and  call  for  a  vote  of  shareholders,  validly  executed  proxies  in 
the  enclosed  form  returned  to  us  will  be  voted  in  accordance  with  the  recommendation  of  the  Board  of 
Directors,  or,  in  the  absence  of  such  a  recommendation,  in  accordance  with  the  judgment  of  the  proxy 
holders. 


5 


GOVERNANCE  OF  THE  COMPANY 


The  business  and  affairs  of  YUM  are  managed  under  the  direction  of  the  Board  of  Directors.  The 
Board  believes  that  good  corporate  governance  is  a  critical  factor  in  achieving  business  success  and  in 
fulfilling  the  Board’s  responsibilities  to  shareholders.  The  Board  believes  that  its  practices  align 
management  and  shareholder  interests.  Highlights  of  our  corporate  governance  practices  are  described 
below. 

What  is  the  composition  of  the  Board  of  Directors  and  how  often  are  members  elected? 

Our  Board  of  Directors  presently  consists  of  13  directors  whose  terms  expire  at  this  Annual  Meeting. 

As  discussed  in  more  detail  later  in  this  section,  the  Board  has  determined  that  10  of  our  13 
continuing  directors  are  independent  under  the  rules  of  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange  (“NYSE”). 

How  often  did  the  Board  meet  in  fiscal  2008? 

The  Board  of  Directors  met  6  times  during  fiscal  2008.  Each  director  attended  at  least  75%  of  the 
meetings  of  the  Board  and  the  committees  of  which  he  or  she  was  a  member  (held  during  the  period  he  or 
she  served  as  a  director). 

What  is  the  Board’s  policy  regarding  director  attendance  at  the  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders? 

The  Board  of  Directors’  policy  is  that  all  directors  should  attend  the  Annual  Meeting.  All  directors 
attended  the  Company’s  2008  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders. 

What  are  the  committees  of  the  Board? 

The  Board  of  Directors  has  standing  Audit,  Compensation,  Nominating  and  Governance  and 
Executive/Finance  Committees. 


Name  of  Committee 
and  Members 

Functions  of  the  Committee 

Number  of  Meetings 
in  Fiscal  2008 

Audit: 

J.  David  Grissom,  Chair 
Robert  Holland,  Jr. 

Kenneth  G.  Langone 
Jonathan  S.  Linen 

Thomas  C.  Nelson 

•  Possesses  sole  authority  regarding  the  selection 
and  retention  of  independent  auditors 

•  Reviews  and  has  oversight  over  the  Company’s 
internal  audit  function 

•  Reviews  and  approves  the  cost  and  scope  of 
audit  and  non-audit  services  provided  by  the 
independent  auditors 

•  Reviews  the  independence,  qualification  and 
performance  of  the  independent  auditors 

•  Reviews  the  adequacy  of  the  Company’s 
internal  systems  of  accounting  and  financial 
control 

•  Reviews  the  annual  audited  financial  statements 
and  results  of  the  audit  with  management  and 
the  independent  auditors 

•  Reviews  the  Company’s  accounting  and 
financial  reporting  principles  and  practices 
including  any  significant  changes 

9 

6 


-reports.c 


Name  of  Committee 
and  Members 

Functions  of  the  Committee 

Number  of  Meetings 
in  Fiscal  2008 

•  Advises  the  Board  with  respect  to  Company 
policies  and  procedures  regarding  compliance 
with  applicable  laws  and  regulations  and  the 
Company’s  Worldwide  Code  of  Conduct  and 
Policy  on  Conflict  of  Interest 

The  Board  of  Directors  has  determined  that  all  of  the  members  of  the  Audit  Committee  are  independent 
within  the  meaning  of  applicable  SEC  regulations  and  the  listing  standards  of  the  NYSE  and  that 
Mr.  Grissom,  the  chair  of  the  Committee,  is  qualified  as  an  audit  committee  financial  expert  within  the 
meaning  of  SEC  regulations.  The  Board  has  also  determined  that  Mr.  Grissom  has  accounting  and  related 
financial  management  expertise  within  the  meaning  of  the  listing  standards  of  the  NYSE  and  that  each 
member  is  financially  literate  within  the  meaning  of  the  NYSE  listing  standards. 

Name  of  Committee 
and  Members 

Functions  of  the  Committee 

Number  of  Meetings 
in  Fiscal  2008 

Compensation: 

Thomas  M.  Ryan,  Chair 
David  W.  Dorman 

Massimo  Ferragamo 

Bonnie  Hill 

Robert  Walter* 

*Joined  Committee  in 

January  2009 

•  Oversees  the  Company’s  executive 

compensation  plans  and  programs  and  reviews 
and  recommends  changes  to  these  plans  and 
programs 

•  Monitors  the  performance  of  the  chief  executive 
officer  and  other  senior  executives  in  light  of 
corporate  goals  set  by  the  Committee 

•  Reviews  and  approves  the  compensation  of  the 
chief  executive  officer  and  other  senior 
executive  officers 

•  Reviews  management  succession  planning 

4 

The  Board  has  determined  that  all  of  the  members  of  the  Compensation  Committee  are  independent  within 
the  meaning  of  the  listing  standards  of  the  NYSE  and  are  non-employee  directors  within  the  meaning  of 
Section  16  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934. 

Name  of  Committee 
and  Members 

Functions  of  the  Committee 

Number  of  Meetings 
in  Fiscal  2008 

Nominating  and  Governance: 

Robert  Walter,  Chair* 

David  Dorman* 

Massimo  Ferragamo* 

Bonnie  Hill* 

Thomas  M.  Ryan 

*Joined  Committee  in 

January  2009 

•  Identifies  and  proposes  to  the  Board  suitable 
candidates  for  Board  membership 

•  Advises  the  Board  on  matters  of  corporate 
governance 

•  Reviews  and  reassesses  from  time  to  time  the 
adequacy  of  the  Company’s  Corporate 
Governance  Guidelines 

•  Receives  comments  from  all  directors  and 
reports  annually  to  the  Board  with  assessment 
of  the  Board’s  performance 

•  Prepares  and  supervises  the  Board’s  annual 
review  of  director  independence 

4 

The  Board  has  determined  that  all  of  the  members  of  the  Nominating  and  Governance  Committee  are 
independent  within  the  meaning  of  the  listing  standards  of  the  NYSE. 

Name  of  Committee 
and  Members 

Functions  of  the  Committee 

Number  of  Meetings 
in  Fiscal  2008 

Executive/Finance: 

David  C.  Novak,  Chair 

J.  David  Grissom 

Kenneth  G.  Langone 

•  Exercises  all  of  the  powers  of  the  Board  in  the 
management  of  the  business  and  affairs  of  the 
Company  consistent  with  applicable  law  while 
the  Board  is  not  in  session 

0 

7 


How  are  directors  compensated? 

Employee  Directors.  Employee  directors  do  not  receive  additional  compensation  for  serving  on  the 
Board  of  Directors. 

Non-Employee  Directors  Annual  Compensation.  The  annual  compensation  for  each  director  who  is 
not  an  employee  of  YUM  is  discussed  under  “Director  Compensation”  beginning  on  page  76. 

How  much  YUM  stock  do  the  directors  own? 

Stock  ownership  information  for  each  director  nominee  is  shown  in  the  table  on  page  37. 

How  does  the  Board  determine  which  directors  are  considered  independent? 

The  Company’s  Corporate  Governance  Principles,  adopted  by  the  Board,  require  that  we  meet  the 
listing  standards  of  the  NYSE.  The  full  text  of  the  Principles  can  be  found  on  the  Company’s  Web  site 
( www.yum.com/govemance/principles.asp ).  A  copy  may  also  be  obtained  upon  request  from  the  Company’s 
Corporate  Secretary. 

Pursuant  to  the  Principles,  the  Board  undertook  its  annual  review  of  director  independence  in  January 
2009.  During  this  review,  the  Board  considered  transactions  and  relationships  between  each  director  or  any 
member  of  his  or  her  immediate  family  and  the  Company  and  its  subsidiaries  and  affiliates.  As  provided  in 
the  Principles,  the  purpose  of  this  review  was  to  determine  whether  any  such  relationships  or  transactions 
were  inconsistent  with  a  determination  that  the  director  is  independent. 

As  a  result  of  this  review,  the  Board  affirmatively  determined  that  all  of  the  directors  are  independent 
of  the  Company  and  its  management  under  the  rules  of  the  NYSE,  with  the  exception  of  David  Novak, 
Jing-Shyh  S.  Su  and  Jackie  Trujillo.  Mr.  Novak  and  Mr.  Su  are  not  considered  independent  directors 
because  of  their  employment  by  the  Company.  Mrs.  Trujillo  is  considered  a  non-independent  outside 
director  because  the  Board  determined  that,  under  the  NYSE  independence  standards,  Mrs.  Trujillo  has  a 
material  relationship  with  YUM  by  virtue  of  her  employment  during  2004  as  Chairman  of  Harman 
Management  Corporation  (“Harman”),  one  of  YUM’s  largest  franchisees,  and  her  continued  relationship 
with  Harman  as  Chairman  Emeritus.  We  provide  additional  information  regarding  royalties  and  other 
amounts  paid  by  Harman  to  YUM  on  page  9. 

In  determining  that  the  other  directors  did  not  have  a  material  relationship  with  the  Company,  the 
Board  determined  that  Messrs.  Dorman,  Ferragamo,  Grissom,  Holland,  Langone,  Linen,  Nelson  and 
Walter  and  Ms.  Hill  had  no  other  relationship  with  the  Company  other  than  their  relationship  as  director. 
The  Board  did  note,  as  discussed  in  the  next  paragraph,  that  CVS  Caremark  Corporation  (“CVS”),  which 
employs  Thomas  Ryan,  had  a  business  relationship  with  the  Company;  however,  as  noted  below,  the  Board 
determined  that  this  relationship  was  not  material  to  Mr.  Ryan  or  CVS. 

Mr.  Ryan  is  the  Chairman,  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  President  of  CVS.  In  2007,  YUM  entered  into 
a  transaction  with  CVS  to  sublease  a  long  range  aircraft  through  the  Fall  of  2010.  At  that  time,  YUM  will 
have  an  option  to  purchase  the  aircraft  from  CVS.  After  reviewing  the  terms  of  the  transaction,  including 
the  lease  payments  and  option  purchase  price,  the  Board  determined  that  the  transaction  did  not  create  a 
material  relationship  between  YUM  and  Mr.  Ryan  or  YUM  and  CVS  as  the  total  payments  represent  less 
than  Vio  of  1%  of  CVS’s  revenues.  The  Board  determined  that  this  relationship  was  not  material  to 
Mr.  Ryan  or  CVS  and  concluded  that  it  does  not  affect  the  independence  of  Mr.  Ryan.  In  particular,  the 
Board  noted  that  the  overall  purchase  price,  including  consideration  of  the  lease  payments,  was  at  market 
value  (as  verified  by  two  independent  appraisals). 


What  are  the  Company’s  policies  and  procedures  with  respect  to  related  person  transactions? 

The  Board  of  Directors  has  adopted  policies  and  procedures  for  the  review  of  related  person 
transactions. 

Under  these  policies  and  procedures,  the  Nominating  and  Governance  Committee  reviews  related 
person  transactions  in  which  we  are  or  will  be  a  participant  to  determine  if  they  are  in  the  best  interests  of 
our  shareholders  and  the  Company.  Transactions,  arrangements,  or  relationships  or  any  series  of  similar 
transactions,  arrangements  or  relationships  in  which  a  related  person  had  or  will  have  a  material  interest 
and  that  exceed  $100,000  are  subject  to  the  Committee’s  review.  Any  member  of  the  Nominating  and 
Governance  Committee  who  is  a  related  person  with  respect  to  a  transaction  under  review  may  not 
participate  in  the  deliberation  or  vote  respecting  approval  or  ratification  of  the  transaction. 

Related  persons  are  directors,  director  nominees,  executive  officers,  holders  of  5%  or  more  of  our 
voting  stock  and  their  immediate  family  members.  Immediate  family  members  are  spouses,  parents, 
stepparents,  children,  stepchildren,  siblings,  daughters-in-law,  sons-in-law  and  any  person,  other  than  a 
tenant  or  domestic  employee,  who  resides  in  the  household  of  a  director,  director  nominee,  executive 
officer  or  holder  of  5%  or  more  of  our  voting  stock. 

After  its  review,  the  Nominating  and  Governance  Committee  may  approve  or  ratify  the  transaction. 
The  policies  and  procedures  provide  that  certain  transactions  are  deemed  to  be  pre-approved  even  if  they 
will  exceed  $100,000.  These  transactions  include  employment  of  executive  officers,  director  compensation, 
and  transactions  with  other  companies  if  the  aggregate  amount  of  the  transaction  does  not  exceed  the 
greater  of  $1  million  or  2%  of  that  company’s  total  revenues  and  the  related  person  is  not  an  executive 
officer  of  the  other  company. 

During  fiscal  2008,  affiliates  of  Harman  Management  Corporation  (“Harman”),  as  KFC,  Taco  Bell, 
Pizza  Hut,  Long  John  Silver’s  and  A&W  All  American  Food  franchisees,  paid  royalties  of  approximately 
$15  million  and  contingent  store  opening  fees  of  approximately  $181,000  to  subsidiaries  of  YUM.  The 
store  opening  fees  are  held  in  escrow  and  may  be  returned  to  Harman  if  the  related  new  restaurant  units 
are  not  opened  within  18  months  of  payment.  Jackie  Trujillo,  Chairman  Emeritus  of  the  Board  of  Harman, 
is  a  director  of  YUM.  Ms.  Trujillo  retired  from  Harman  as  its  Chairman  on  June  30,  2004.  Ms.  Trujillo  has 
a  direct  financial  interest  in  Harman  but  does  not  control  Harman  and  does  not  have  any  management 
responsibility  at  Harman.  The  Nominating  and  Governance  Committee  ratified  these  transactions  with 
Harman. 

How  does  the  Board  select  nominees  for  the  Board? 

The  Nominating  and  Governance  Committee  considers  candidates  for  Board  membership  suggested 
by  its  members  and  other  Board  members,  as  well  as  management  and  shareholders.  The  Committee’s 
charter  provides  that  it  may  retain  a  third-party  executive  search  firm  to  identify  candidates  from  time  to 
time.  Currently,  the  Committee  has  not  retained  a  search  firm. 

The  Committee’s  assessment  of  a  proposed  candidate  will  include  a  review  of  the  person’s  judgment, 
experience,  independence,  understanding  of  the  Company’s  business  or  other  related  industries  and  such 
other  factors  as  the  Nominating  and  Governance  Committee  determines  are  relevant  in  light  of  the  needs 
of  the  Board  of  Directors.  The  Committee  believes  that  its  nominees  should  reflect  a  diversity  of 
experience,  gender,  race,  ethnicity  and  age.  The  Committee  also  considers  such  other  relevant  factors  as  it 
deems  appropriate,  including  the  current  composition  of  the  Board,  the  balance  of  management  and 
independent  directors,  the  need  for  Audit  Committee  expertise  and  the  evaluations  of  other  prospective 
nominees,  if  any.  In  connection  with  this  evaluation,  it  is  expected  that  each  committee  member  will 
interview  the  prospective  nominee  in  person  or  by  telephone  before  the  prospective  nominee  is  presented 
to  the  full  Board  for  consideration.  After  completing  this  evaluation  and  interview  process,  the  Committee 
will  make  a  recommendation  to  the  full  Board  as  to  the  person(s)  who  should  be  nominated  by  the  Board, 


9 


and  the  Board  determines  the  nominee(s)  after  considering  the  recommendation  and  report  of  the 
Committee. 

For  a  shareholder  to  submit  a  candidate  for  consideration  by  the  Nominating  and  Governance 
Committee,  a  shareholder  must  notify  YUM’s  Corporate  Secretary.  To  make  a  director  nomination  at  the 
2010  Annual  Meeting,  a  shareholder  must  notify  YUM’s  Secretary  no  later  than  February  22,  2010. 
Notices  should  be  sent  to:  Corporate  Secretary,  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.,  1441  Gardiner  Lane,  Louisville, 
Kentucky  40213.  The  nomination  must  contain  the  information  described  on  page  83. 

How  do  shareholders  communicate  with  the  Board? 

Shareholders  and  other  parties  interested  in  communicating  directly  with  individual  directors,  the 
non-management  directors  as  a  group  or  the  entire  Board  may  do  so  by  writing  to  the  Nominating  and 
Governance  Committee,  c/o  Corporate  Secretary,  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.,  1441  Gardiner  Lane,  Louisville, 
Kentucky  40213.  The  Nominating  and  Governance  Committee  of  the  Board  has  approved  a  process  for 
handling  letters  received  by  the  Company  and  addressed  to  individual  directors,  non-management 
members  of  the  Board  or  the  Board.  Under  that  process,  the  Corporate  Secretary  of  the  Company  reviews 
all  such  correspondence  and  regularly  forwards  to  a  designated  individual  member  of  the  Nominating  and 
Governance  Committee  copies  of  all  such  correspondence  (although  we  do  not  forward  commercial 
correspondence  and  correspondence  duplicative  in  nature;  however,  we  will  retain  duplicate 
correspondence  and  all  duplicate  correspondence  will  be  available  for  directors  review  upon  their  request) 
and  a  summary  of  all  such  correspondence.  The  designated  director  of  the  Nominating  and  Governance 
Committee  will  forward  correspondence  directed  to  individual  directors  as  he  or  she  deems  appropriate. 
Directors  may  at  any  time  review  a  log  of  all  correspondence  received  by  the  Company  that  is  addressed  to 
members  of  the  Board  and  request  copies  of  any  such  correspondence.  Written  correspondence  from 
shareholders  relating  to  accounting,  internal  controls  or  auditing  matters  are  immediately  brought  to  the 
attention  of  the  Company’s  Audit  Committee  Chairperson  and  to  the  internal  audit  department  and 
handled  in  accordance  with  procedures  established  by  the  Audit  Committee  with  respect  to  such  matters 
(described  below).  Correspondence  from  shareholders  relating  to  Compensation  Committee  matters  are 
referred  to  the  Chairperson  of  the  Compensation  Committee. 

What  are  the  Company’s  Policies  on  Reporting  of  Concerns  Regarding  Accounting? 

The  Audit  Committee  has  established  policies  on  reporting  concerns  regarding  accounting  and  other 
matters  in  addition  to  our  policy  on  communicating  with  our  non-management  directors.  Any  person, 
whether  or  not  an  employee,  who  has  a  concern  about  the  conduct  of  the  Company  or  any  of  our  people, 
with  respect  to  accounting,  internal  accounting  controls  or  auditing  matters,  may,  in  a  confidential  or 
anonymous  manner,  communicate  that  concern  to  our  General  Counsel,  Christian  Campbell.  If  any  person 
believes  that  he  or  she  should  communicate  with  our  Audit  Committee  Chair,  J.  David  Grissom,  he  or  she 
may  do  so  by  writing  him  at  c/o  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.,  1441  Gardiner  Lane,  Louisville,  KY  40213.  In 
addition,  a  person  who  has  such  a  concern  about  the  conduct  of  the  Company  or  any  of  our  employees  may 
discuss  that  concern  on  a  confidential  or  anonymous  basis  by  contacting  The  Network  at  1  (800)  241-5689. 
The  Network  is  our  designated  external  contact  for  these  issues  and  is  authorized  to  contact  the 
appropriate  members  of  management  and/or  the  Board  of  Directors  with  respect  to  all  concerns  it 
receives.  The  full  text  of  our  Policy  on  Reporting  of  Concerns  Regarding  Accounting  and  Other  Matters  is 
available  on  our  Web  site  at  www.yum.com/govemance/complaint.asp. 

What  are  the  Company’s  Governance  Policies  and  Ethical  Guidelines? 

•  Board  Committee  Charters.  The  Audit,  Compensation  and  Nominating  and  Governance  Committees 
of  the  YUM  Board  of  Directors  operate  pursuant  to  written  charters.  These  charters  were  approved 
by  the  Board  of  Directors  and  reflect  certain  best  practices  in  corporate  governance,  as  well  as 
comply  with  the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  of  2002  and  the  rules  issued  thereunder,  including  the 


requirements  of  the  NYSE.  Each  charter  is  available  on  the  Company’s  Web  site  at  www.yum.com/ 
govemance/committee.asp  and  is  available  in  print  to  any  shareholder  who  requests  it. 

•  Corporate  Governance  Principles.  The  Board  of  Directors  has  documented  its  corporate  governance 
guidelines  in  the  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  Corporate  Governance  Principles.  These  guidelines  as 
amended  are  available  on  the  Company’s  Web  site  at  www.yum.com/govemance/principles.asp. 

•  Code  of  Ethics.  YUM’s  Worldwide  Code  of  Conduct  was  adopted  to  emphasize  the  Company’s 
commitment  to  the  highest  standards  of  business  conduct.  The  Code  of  Conduct  also  sets  forth 
information  and  procedures  for  employees  to  report  ethical  or  accounting  concerns,  misconduct  or 
violations  of  the  Code  in  a  confidential  manner.  The  Code  of  Conduct  applies  to  the  Board  of 
Directors  and  the  principal  executive  officer,  the  principal  financial  officer  and  the  principal 
accounting  officer,  as  well  as  all  employees  of  the  Company.  Our  directors  and  the  senior-most 
employees  in  the  Company  are  required  to  regularly  complete  a  conflicts  of  interest  questionnaire 
and  certify  in  writing  that  they  have  read  and  understand  the  Code  of  Conduct.  The  Code  of 
Conduct  is  available  on  the  Company’s  Web  site  at  www.yum.com/govemance/conduct.asp.  The 
Company  intends  to  post  amendments  to  or  waivers  from  its  Code  (to  the  extent  applicable  to  the 
Board  of  Directors  or  executive  officers)  on  this  Web  site. 

In  addition,  YUM  has  established  a  Supplier  Code  of  Conduct  that  requires  our  U.S.  suppliers  to 
abide  by  all  applicable  laws,  codes  and  regulations  and  states  YUM’s  expectation  that  suppliers  will 
conform  their  practices  to  published  standards  for  their  industry.  Our  Supplier  Code  of  Conduct  is 
described  on  the  Company’s  Web  site  at  www.yum.com/responsibility/suppliercode.asp. 

What  other  Significant  Board  Practices  does  the  Company  have? 

•  Private  Executive  Sessions.  Our  non-management  directors  meet  at  regularly  scheduled  executive 
sessions  on  a  bi-monthly  basis.  These  executive  sessions  are  attended  only  by  the  non-management 
directors  and,  in  2008,  were  presided  over  by  Mr.  Ryan.  The  presiding  director  for  these  meetings  is 
the  Chairperson  of  each  of  the  Audit,  Compensation  and  Nominating  and  Governance  Committees, 
who  rotate  as  presiding  director  at  each  executive  session  on  a  calendar  year  basis. 

•  Advance  Materials.  Information  and  data  important  to  the  directors’  understanding  of  the  business  or 
matters  to  be  considered  at  a  Board  or  Board  Committee  meeting  are,  to  the  extent  practical, 
distributed  to  the  directors  sufficiently  in  advance  of  the  meeting  to  allow  careful  review  prior  to  the 
meeting. 

•  Board  and  Committees’  Evaluations.  The  Board  has  an  annual  self-evaluation  process  that  is  led  by  the 
Nominating  and  Governance  Committee.  This  assessment  focuses  on  the  Board’s  contribution  to 
the  Company  and  emphasizes  those  areas  in  which  the  Board  believes  a  better  contribution  could 
be  made.  In  addition,  the  Audit,  Compensation  and  Nominating  and  Governance  Committees  also 
each  conduct  similar  annual  self-evaluations. 

•  Majority  Voting  Policy.  In  May  2008,  shareholders  approved  an  amendment  to  the  Company’s 
Restated  Articles  of  Incorporation  to  adopt  majority  voting  for  the  election  of  directors  in 
uncontested  election.  This  means  that  director  nominees  in  an  uncontested  election  for  directors 
must  receive  a  number  of  votes  “for”  his  or  her  election  in  excess  of  the  number  of  votes  “against.” 
In  conjunction  with  the  approval  of  this  amendment,  the  Board  amended  the  Company’s  Corporate 
Governance  Principles  to  provide  that  any  incumbent  director  who  does  not  receive  a  majority  of 
“for”  votes  will  promptly  tender  to  the  Board  his  or  her  resignation  from  the  Board.  The 
resignation  will  specify  that  it  is  effective  upon  the  Board’s  acceptance  of  the  resignation.  The 
Board  will,  through  a  process  managed  by  the  Nominating  and  Governance  Committee  and 
excluding  the  nominee  in  question,  accept  or  reject  the  resignation  within  90  days  after  the  Board 


11 


receives  the  resignation.  If  the  board  rejects  the  resignation,  the  reason  for  the  Board’s  decision  will 
be  publicly  disclosed. 

What  access  do  the  Board  and  Board  committees  have  to  Management  and  to  Outside  Advisors? 

•  Access  to  Management  and  Employees.  Directors  have  full  and  unrestricted  access  to  the  management 
and  employees  of  the  Company.  Additionally,  key  members  of  management  attend  Board  meetings 
to  present  information  about  the  results,  plans  and  operations  of  the  business  within  their  areas  of 
responsibility. 

•  Access  to  Outside  Advisors.  The  Board  and  its  committees  may  retain  counsel  or  consultants  without 
obtaining  the  approval  of  any  officer  of  the  Company  in  advance  or  otherwise.  The  Audit 
Committee  has  the  sole  authority  to  retain  and  terminate  the  independent  auditor.  The  Nominating 
and  Governance  Committee  has  the  sole  authority  to  retain  search  firms  to  be  used  to  identify 
director  candidates.  The  Compensation  Committee  has  the  sole  authority  to  retain  compensation 
consultants  for  advice  on  executive  compensation  matters. 

Does  the  Company  require  stock  ownership  by  directors? 

Yes,  the  Company  requires  stock  ownership  by  directors.  The  Board  of  Directors  expects 
non-management  directors  to  hold  a  meaningful  number  of  shares  of  Company  common  stock  and  expects 
non-management  directors  to  retain  shares  acquired  as  compensation  as  a  director  until  at  least  12  months 
following  their  departure  from  the  Board.  YUM  directors  receive  a  significant  portion  of  their  annual 
compensation  in  stock.  The  Company  believes  that  the  increased  emphasis  on  the  equity  component  of 
director  compensation  serves  to  further  align  the  directors  with  the  interests  of  our  shareholders. 

Does  the  Company  have  stock  ownership  guidelines  for  Executives  and  Senior  Management? 

The  Compensation  Committee  has  adopted  formal  stock  ownership  guidelines  that  set  minimum 
expectations  for  executive  and  senior  management  ownership.  These  guidelines  are  discussed  on  page  54. 
The  Company  has  maintained  an  ownership  culture  among  its  executive  and  senior  managers  since  its 
formation.  All  executive  officers,  and  substantially  all  members  of  senior  management,  hold  stock  well  in 
excess  of  the  guidelines. 


MATTERS  REQUIRING  SHAREHOLDER  ACTION 

ITEM  1:  ELECTION  OF  DIRECTORS 
(Item  1  on  the  Proxy  Card) 

Who  are  this  year’s  nominees? 

The  thirteen  (13)  nominees  recommended  by  the  Nominating  and  Governance  Committee  of  the 
Board  of  Directors  for  election  this  year  to  hold  office  until  the  2010  Annual  Meeting  and  until  their 
respective  successors  are  elected  and  qualified  are: 


David  W.  Dorman 

Age  55 

Director  since  2005 
Non-Executive  Chairman, 
Motorola,  Inc. 


David  W.  Dorman  is  the  Non-Executive  Chairman  of 
Motorola,  Inc.,  a  position  he  has  held  since  May  2008.  From 
October  2006  to  May  2008,  he  was  Senior  Advisor  and  Managing 
Director  to  Warburg  Pincus  LLC,  a  global  private  equity  firm.  He 
has  also  been  a  consultant  to  AT&T,  Inc.  (“New  AT&T”),  a 
company  that  provides  Internet  and  transaction-based  voice  and 
data  services,  since  February  2006.  He  was  President  of  New  AT&T 
from  November  2005  until  January  2006.  He  was  Chairman  of  the 
Board  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  AT&T  Corp.  (“Old  AT&T”) 
from  November  2002  until  November  2005.  Prior  to  this,  he  was 
President  of  Old  AT&T  from  2000  to  2002  and  the  Chief  Executive 
Officer  of  Concert,  a  former  global  venture  created  by  Old  AT&T 
and  British  Telecommunications  pic,  from  1999  to  2000. 
Mr.  Dorman  was  Chairman,  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer 
of  PointCast  Incorporated  from  1997  to  1999.  Mr.  Dorman  serves 
on  the  boards  of  CVS  Caremark  Corporation  and  Georgia  Tech 
Foundation. 


Massimo  Ferragamo 

Age  51 

Director  since  1997 
Chairman,  Ferragamo  USA,  Inc. 


Massimo  Ferragamo  is  Chairman  of  Ferragamo  USA,  Inc.,  a 
subsidiary  of  Salvatore  Ferragamo  Italia,  which  controls  sales  and 
distribution  of  Ferragamo  products  in  North  America. 
Mr.  Ferragamo  has  held  this  position  since  1985. 


J.  David  Grissom 

Age  70 

Director  since  2003 
Chairman,  Mayfair  Capital 
Chairman,  The  Glenview  Trust 
Company 

Bonnie  G.  Hill 

Age  67 

Director  since  2003 

President,  B.  Hill  Enterprises  LLC 


J.  David  Grissom  is  Chairman  of  Mayfair  Capital,  Inc.,  a  private 
investment  firm  formed  by  Mr.  Grissom  in  1989.  In  addition, 
Mr.  Grissom  has  been  Chairman  of  The  Glenview  Trust  Company, 
a  private  trust  and  investment  management  company,  since  2001. 
He  is  also  a  director  of  Churchill  Downs  Incorporated. 

Bonnie  G.  Hill  is  President  of  B.  Hill  Enterprises  LLC,  a  consulting 
company.  She  has  held  this  position  since  July  2001.  She  is  also 
co-founder  of  Icon  Blue,  Inc.,  a  brand  marketing  company.  She 
served  as  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  Times  Mirror 
Foundation,  a  charitable  foundation  affiliated  with  the  Tribune 
Company  from  1997  to  2001  and  Senior  Vice  President, 
Communications  and  Public  Affairs,  of  the  Los  Angeles  Times 
from  1998  to  2001.  From  1992  to  1996,  she  served  as  Dean  of  the 
Mclntire  School  of  Commerce  at  the  University  of  Virginia. 
Ms.  Hill  currently  serves  as  a  director  of  AK  Steel  Holding 
Corporation,  The  Home  Depot,  Inc.,  and  California  Water  Service 
Group.  She  also  serves  on  the  boards  of  many  other  organizations, 
including  the  Financial  Industry  Regulatory  Authority  and  the 
Center  for  International  Private  Enterprise. 


13 


Robert  Holland,  Jr. 

Age  68 

Director  since  1997 
Consultant 


Robert  Holland,  Jr.  has  maintained  a  consulting  practice  for 
strategic  development  assistance  to  senior  management  of  Fortune 
500  companies  since  2001.  From  2005  to  2007,  he  was  a  member  of 
Cordova,  Smart  and  Williams,  LLC  an  investment  fund  manager, 
and  a  limited  partner  of  Williams  Capital  Partners  Advisors,  LP,  a 
private  equity  investment  firm.  He  was  Chief  Executive  Officer  of 
Workplace  Integrators,  Michigan’s  largest  Steelcase  office 
furniture  dealer,  from  1997  until  2001.  From  1995  to  1996,  he  was 
President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  Ben  &  Jerry’s 
Homemade,  Inc.  Mr.  Holland  is  also  a  director  of  Carver  Federal 
Bank,  Lexmark  International,  Inc.  and  Neptune  Orient  Lines 
Limited. 


Kenneth  G.  Langone 

Age  73 

Director  since  1997 
Founder,  Chairman,  Chief 
Executive  Officer  and  President, 
Invemed  Associates,  LLC 


Kenneth  G.  Langone  is  the  founder,  and  since  1974,  has  been 
Chairman  of  the  Board,  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  President,  of 
Invemed  Associates,  LLC,  a  New  York  Stock  Exchange  firm 
engaged  in  investment  banking  and  brokerage.  He  is  a  founder  of 
The  Home  Depot,  Inc.  and  served  on  its  board  from  1978  to  2008. 
He  is  also  a  director  of  Unifi,  Inc. 


Jonathan  S.  Linen 

Age  65 

Director  since  2005 
Advisor  to  the  Chairman  of 
American  Express  Company 


Thomas  C.  Nelson 

Age  46 

Director  since  2006 
Chairman,  Chief  Executive  Officer 
and  President,  National  Gypsum 
Company 


David  C.  Novak 

Age  56 

Director  since  1997 

Chairman,  Chief  Executive  Officer 

and  President,  YUM 


Jonathan  S.  Linen  has  been  an  advisor  to  the  Chairman  of 
American  Express  Company,  a  diversified  worldwide  travel  and 
financial  services  company,  since  January  2006.  From  August  1993 
until  December  2005,  he  served  as  Vice  Chairman  of  American 
Express  Company.  From  1992  to  1993,  Mr.  Linen  served  as 
President  and  Chief  Operating  Officer  of  American  Express  Travel 
Related  Services  Company,  Inc.  From  1989  to  1992,  Mr.  Linen 
served  as  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  Shearson 
Lehman  Brothers.  Mr.  Linen  is  also  a  director  of  Modern  Bank, 
N.A.  and  The  Intercontinental  Hotels  Group. 

Thomas  C.  Nelson  has  served  as  the  President  and  Chief  Executive 
Officer  of  National  Gypsum  Company,  a  building  products 
manufacturer,  since  1999  and  was  elected  Chairman  of  the  Board 
in  January  2005.  From  1995  to  1999,  Mr.  Nelson  served  as  the  Vice 
Chairman  and  Chief  Financial  Officer  of  National  Gypsum 
Company.  He  is  also  a  General  Partner  of  Wakefield  Group,  a 
North  Carolina  based  venture  capital  firm.  Mr.  Nelson  previously 
worked  for  Morgan  Stanley  &  Co.  and  in  the  United  States 
Defense  Department  as  Assistant  to  the  Secretary  and  was  a  White 
House  Fellow.  He  also  serves  as  a  director  of  Belk,  Inc.  and 
Carolinas  Healthcare  Systems. 

David  C.  Novak  became  Chairman  of  the  Board  on  January  1, 
2001,  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  YUM  on  January  1,  2000.  He 
also  serves  as  President  of  YUM,  a  position  he  has  held  since 
October  21,  1997.  Mr.  Novak  previously  served  as  Group  President 
and  Chief  Executive  Officer,  KFC  and  Pizza  Hut  from  August  1996 
to  July  1997,  at  which  time  he  became  acting  Vice  Chairman  of 
YUM.  He  is  also  a  director  of  JPMorgan  Chase  &  Co.  and  Friends 
of  World  Food  Program. 


Thomas  M.  Ryan 

Age  56 

Director  since  2002 
Chairman,  Chief  Executive  Officer 
and  President,  CVS  Caremark 
Corporation  and  CVS 
Pharmacy,  Inc. 


Thomas  M.  Ryan  is  Chairman,  Chief  Executive  Officer  and 
President  of  CVS  Caremark  Corporation  (“CVS”),  a  pharmacy 
healthcare  provider.  He  became  Chairman  of  CVS  in  April  1999 
and  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  President  in  May  1998.  From  1994 
to  present,  Mr.  Ryan  also  served  as  Chief  Executive  Officer  and 
President  of  CVS  Pharmacy,  Inc.  Mr.  Ryan  is  also  a  director  of 
Bank  of  America  Corporation. 


Jing-Shyh  S.  Su 

Age  56 

Director  since  2008 
Vice  Chairman 

President  of  YUM’s  China  Division 


Jing-Shyh  S.  Su  became  Vice  Chairman  of  the  Board  on  March  14, 
2008.  He  is  also  President  of  YUM’s  China  Division,  a  position  he 
has  held  since  1997.  Prior  to  this  position  he  was  the  Vice  President 
of  North  Asia  for  both  KFC  and  Pizza  Hut. 


Jackie  Trujillo 

Age  73 

Director  since  1997 
Chairman  Emeritus,  Harman 
Management  Corporation 

Robert  D.  Walter 

Age  63 

Director  since  2008 

Founder  and  Retired  Chairman/ 

CEO  Cardinal  Health,  Inc. 


Jackie  Trujillo  has  been  Chairman  Emeritus  of  the  Board  of 
Harman  Management  Corporation  (“Harman”),  one  of  KFC’s 
largest  franchisees,  since  July  2004.  From  1995  to  2004,  she  was 
Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Harman. 

Robert  D.  Walter  is  the  founder  of  Cardinal  Health,  Inc.,  a  company 
that  provides  products  and  services  supporting  the  health  care 
industry.  Mr.  Walter  retired  from  Cardinal  Health  in  June  2008. 
Prior  to  his  retirement  from  Cardinal  Health,  he  served  as 
Executive  Director  from  November  2007  to  June  2008.  From  April 
2006  to  November  2007,  he  served  as  Executive  Chairman  of  the 
Board  of  Cardinal  Health.  From  1979  to  April  2006,  he  served  as 
Chairman  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  Cardinal  Health. 
Mr.  Walter  also  serves  as  a  director  of  American  Express  Company, 
Nordstrom,  Inc.  and  Battehe  Memorial  Institute  and  is  a  member 
of  The  Business  Council. 


If  elected,  we  expect  that  all  of  the  aforementioned  nominees  will  serve  as  directors  and  hold  office 
until  the  2010  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders  and  until  their  respective  successors  have  been  elected  and 
qualified.  Based  on  the  recommendation  of  the  Nominating  and  Governance  Committee,  all  of  the 
aforementioned  nominees  are  standing  for  reelection. 


What  is  the  recommendation  of  the  Board  of  Directors? 


THE  BOARD  OF  DIRECTORS  RECOMMENDS  THAT 
YOU  VOTE  FOR  THE  ELECTION  OF  THESE  NOMINEES. 

What  if  a  nominee  is  unwilling  or  unable  to  serve? 

That  is  not  expected  to  occur.  If  it  does,  proxies  will  be  voted  for  a  substitute  nominated  by  the  Board 
of  Directors. 

What  vote  is  required  to  elect  directors? 

A  nominee  will  be  elected  as  a  director  if  the  number  of  “FOR”  votes  exceeds  the  number  of 
“AGAINST”  votes. 

Our  policy  regarding  the  election  of  directors  can  be  found  in  our  Corporate  Governance  Principles  at 
www.yum.com/govemance/principles.asp  and  at  page  11  under  “What  other  Significant  Board  Practices  does 
the  Company  have? — Majority  Voting  Policy.” 


15 


ITEM  2:  RATIFICATION  OF  INDEPENDENT  AUDITORS 
(Item  2  on  the  Proxy  Card) 

What  am  I  voting  on? 

A  proposal  to  ratify  the  selection  of  KPMG  LLP  (“KPMG”)  as  our  independent  auditors  for  fiscal 
year  2009.  The  Audit  Committee  of  the  Board  of  Directors  has  selected  KPMG  to  audit  our  consolidated 
financial  statements.  During  fiscal  2008,  KPMG  served  as  our  independent  auditors  and  also  provided 
other  audit-related  and  non-audit  services. 

Will  a  representative  of  KPMG  be  present  at  the  meeting? 

Representatives  of  KPMG  will  be  present  at  the  Annual  Meeting  and  will  have  the  opportunity  to 
make  a  statement  if  they  desire  and  will  be  available  to  respond  to  appropriate  questions  from 
shareholders. 

What  vote  is  required  to  approve  this  proposal? 

Approval  of  this  proposal  requires  the  affirmative  vote  of  a  majority  of  the  shares  present  in  person  or 
represented  by  proxy  and  entitled  to  vote  at  the  Annual  Meeting.  If  the  selection  of  KPMG  is  not  ratified, 
the  Audit  Committee  will  reconsider  the  selection  of  independent  auditors. 

What  is  the  recommendation  of  the  Board  of  Directors? 


THE  BOARD  OF  DIRECTORS  RECOMMENDS  THAT  YOU 
VOTE  FOR  APPROVAL  OF  THIS  PROPOSAL. 

What  fees  did  we  pay  to  KPMG  for  audit  and  other  services  for  fiscal  years  2008  and  2007? 

The  following  table  presents  fees  for  professional  services  rendered  by  KPMG  for  the  audit  of  the 
Company’s  annual  financial  statements  for  2008  and  2007,  and  fees  billed  for  audit-related  services,  tax 
services  and  all  other  services  rendered  by  KPMG  for  2008  and  2007. 


2008 

2007 

Audit  fees(l) . 

Audit-related  fees(2) . 

.  $5,200,000 

.  900,000 

$5,700,000 

300,000 

Audit  and  audit-related  fees . 

Tax  fees(3) . 

All  other  fees  . 

.  6,100,000 

.  500,000 

6,000,000 

600,000 

Total  fees  . 

.  $6,600,000 

$6,600,000 

(1)  Audit  fees  for  2008  and  2007  include  fees  for  the  audit  of  the  annual  consolidated  financial 
statements,  reviews  of  the  interim  condensed  consolidated  financial  statements  included  in  the 
Company’s  quarterly  reports,  audits  of  the  effectiveness  of  the  Company’s  internal  controls  over 
financial  reporting,  statutory  audits  and  services  rendered  in  connection  with  the  Company’s  securities 
offerings. 

(2)  Audit-related  fees  for  2008  and  2007  consisted  principally  of  fees  for  audits  of  carved-out  financial 
statements,  audits  of  financial  statements  of  certain  employee  benefit  plans,  agreed  upon  procedures 
related  to  certain  state  tax  credits  and  other  attestations.  Audit  related  fees  for  2008  also  include 
$675,000  in  fees  that  were  reimbursed  to  the  Company  by  a  franchisee  in  connection  with  services 
performed  related  to  an  acquisition  of  Company  restaurants  by  the  franchisee. 


(3)  Tax  fees  for  2008  and  2007  consisted  principally  of  fees  for  international  tax  compliance  and  tax  audit 

assistance. 

What  is  the  Company’s  policy  regarding  the  approval  of  audit  and  non-audit  services? 

The  Audit  Committee  has  implemented  a  policy  for  the  pre-approval  of  all  audit  and  permitted 
non-audit  services,  including  tax  services,  proposed  to  be  provided  to  the  Company  by  its  independent 
auditors.  Under  the  policy,  the  Audit  Committee  may  approve  engagements  on  a  case-by-case  basis  or 
pre-approve  engagements  pursuant  to  the  Audit  Committee’s  pre-approval  policy.  The  Audit  Committee 
may  delegate  pre-approval  authority  to  one  of  its  independent  members,  and  has  currently  delegated 
pre-approval  authority  up  to  certain  amounts  to  its  Chairperson. 

Pre-approvals  for  services  have  historically  been  granted  at  the  March  Audit  Committee  meeting  each 
year.  In  considering  pre-approvals,  the  Audit  Committee  reviews  a  description  of  the  scope  of  services 
falling  within  pre-designated  services  and  imposes  specific  budgetary  guidelines.  Pre-approvals  of 
designated  services  are  generally  effective  for  the  succeeding  12  months.  Any  incremental  audit  or 
permitted  non-audit  services  which  are  expected  to  exceed  the  relevant  budgetary  guideline  must  be 
pre-approved. 

The  Corporate  Controller  monitors  services  provided  by  the  independent  auditors  and  overall 
compliance  with  the  pre-approval  policy.  The  Corporate  Controller  reports  periodically  to  the  Audit 
Committee  about  the  status  of  outstanding  engagements,  including  actual  services  provided  and  associated 
fees,  and  must  promptly  report  any  non-compliance  with  the  pre-approval  policy  to  the  Chairperson  of  the 
Audit  Committee. 

The  complete  policy  is  available  on  the  Company’s  Web  site  at  www.yum.com/govemance/media/ 
gov_auditpolicy.pdf  and  at  Exhibit  C. 


17 


ITEM  3:  A  PROPOSAL  TO  APPROVE  THE  COMPANY’S 
EXECUTIVE  INCENTIVE  COMPENSATION  PLAN 
(Item  3  on  the  Proxy  Card) 

Introduction.  The  Board  of  Directors  recommends  that  shareholders  approve  the  Yum!  Brands,  Inc. 
Executive  Incentive  Compensation  Plan  (the  “Incentive  Plan”)  as  amended  by  the  first  amendment  (the 
“First  Amendment”)  and  the  second  amendment  (the  “Second  Amendment”)  thereto.  The  Incentive  Plan 
was  previously  approved  by  shareholders  on  May  20,  2004.  The  First  and  Second  Amendments  were 
adopted  by  the  Board  of  Directors  on  March  27,  2009.  The  First  Amendment  provides  for  recovery  of 
certain  overpayments  of  compensation  if  the  excess  payment  was  based  on  a  level  of  achievement  that  was 
overstated,  and  the  overstatement  was  the  result  of  misconduct.  The  First  Amendment  makes  other 
technical  changes,  and  is  not  contingent  on  shareholder  approval.  The  Second  Amendment,  which  raises 
the  annual  payment  limit  from  $6,000,000  to  $10,000,000  for  a  participant,  is  subject  to  shareholder 
approval.  If  the  Incentive  Plan,  as  amended  by  the  First  and  Second  Amendments,  is  approved  by 
shareholders,  incentive  payments  made  under  the  Plan  for  2010  through  2014  will  qualify  as  “performance- 
based  compensation”  that  is  exempt  from  the  $1  million  deduction  limit  (as  described  below)  imposed  by 
Section  162(m)  of  the  Internal  Revenue  Code  (“Code”).  A  summary  of  the  material  provisions  of  the 
Incentive  Plan,  as  amended,  is  set  forth  below  and  is  qualified  in  its  entirety  by  reference  to  the  Incentive 
Plan,  as  amended  by  the  First  and  Second  Amendments,  set  forth  in  Exhibit  A  hereto.  If  the  Incentive  Plan 
as  amended  by  the  First  and  Second  Amendments  is  not  so  approved,  incentive  payments  under  the 
Incentive  Plan  will  not  qualify  as  “performance-based  compensation”  and  the  per  participant  annual 
payment  limitation  will  remain  at  $6,000,000. 

Purpose.  The  purpose  of  the  Incentive  Plan  is  to  promote  the  interests  of  the  Company  and  its 
shareholders  by  (i)  motivating  executives,  by  means  of  performance-related  incentives,  to  achieve  financial 
goals;  (ii)  attracting  and  retaining  executives  of  outstanding  ability;  (iii)  strengthening  the  Company’s 
capability  to  develop,  maintain  and  direct  a  competent  executive  staff;  (iv)  providing  annual  incentive 
compensation  opportunities  which  are  competitive  with  those  of  other  major  corporations;  and 
(v)  enabling  executives  to  participate  in  the  growth  and  financial  success  of  the  Company. 

Eligibility  and  Grant  of  Awards.  Under  the  Incentive  Plan,  the  Committee  (defined  below)  may  grant 
cash  incentives  (‘Awards”)  to  those  employees  of  the  Company  or  its  subsidiaries  designated  by  the 
Committee  who  are  Executive  Officers  or  who  otherwise  are  members  of  senior  management  of  the 
Company  (“Eligible  Employees”).  The  recipient  of  an  Award  (a  “Participant”)  will  become  entitled  to  a 
cash  payment  if  certain  performance  goals  (described  below)  for  the  Performance  Period,  as  established  by 
the  Committee,  are  satisfied.  For  the  Award,  the  amount  of  the  cash  payment  is  to  be  based  on  the  extent 
to  which  the  performance  goals  are  achieved.  At  the  time  an  Award  is  granted  to  a  Participant,  the 
Committee  shall  establish,  with  respect  to  the  Award,  (i)  a  target  amount,  expressed  as  a  percentage  of  the 
Participant’s  base  salary  for  such  Performance  Period;  (ii)  the  performance  goal(s)  for  the  Performance 
Period  with  respect  to  the  Award;  (iii)  the  maximum  payments  to  be  made  with  respect  to  various  levels  of 
achievement  of  the  performance  goal(s)  for  the  Performance  Period;  and  (iv)  whether  the  Award  is 
intended  to  satisfy  the  requirements  for  performance-based  compensation  (as  described  below). 

Performance-Based  Compensation.  A  federal  income  tax  deduction  will  generally  be  unavailable  for 
annual  compensation  in  excess  of  $1  million  paid  to  any  of  the  five  most  highly  compensated  officers  of  a 
public  corporation.  However,  amounts  that  constitute  “performance-based  compensation”  are  not  counted 
toward  the  $1  million  limit.  The  Committee  may  designate  any  Award  under  the  Plan  as  intended  to  be 
“performance-based  compensation.”  Any  Awards  so  designated  shall  be  conditioned  on  the  achievement 
of  one  or  more  performance  goals,  as  require  by  Section  162(m).  The  performance  goals  that  the 
Committee  may  establish  with  respect  to  the  grant  of  any  Award  will  be  based  on  any  one  or  more  of  the 
following  Company,  subsidiary,  line  of  business,  operating  unit,  division  or  franchise  system  performance 
measures:  cash  flow,  earnings  per  share,  return  on  operating  assets,  return  on  equity,  operating  profit,  net 


income,  revenue  growth,  shareholder  return,  system  sales,  gross  margin  management,  market  share 
improvement,  market  value  added,  restaurant  development,  customer  satisfaction  or  economic  value 
added.  To  satisfy  the  requirements  that  apply  to  performance-based  compensation,  these  goals  must  be 
approved  by  the  Company’s  shareholders,  and  approval  of  the  Incentive  Plan,  as  amended  by  the  First  and 
Second  Amendments,  will  also  constitute  approval  of  the  foregoing  goals. 

Payments.  A  Participant’s  eligibility  for  payment  with  respect  to  an  Award  for  a  Performance  Period 
shall  be  determined  by  the  Committee.  Prior  to  the  payment  with  respect  to  any  Award  designated  as 
intended  to  satisfy  the  requirements  for  performance-based  compensation,  the  Committee  will  certify  the 
attainment  of  the  performance  goal(s)  and  any  other  material  terms.  The  Committee  may  adjust  Awards 
for  individual  performance  on  the  basis  of  such  quantitative  and  qualitative  performance  measures  and 
evaluations  as  it  deems  appropriate.  The  Committee  may  make  such  adjustments  as  it  deems  appropriate 
in  the  case  of  any  Participant  whose  position  with  the  Company  has  changed  during  the  applicable 
Performance  Period.  The  Committee  shall  have  the  discretion  to  adjust  performance  goals  and  the 
methodology  used  to  measure  the  determination  of  the  degree  of  attainment  of  such  goals;  provided, 
however,  that,  to  the  extent  required  by  the  requirements  applicable  to  performance-based  compensation, 
any  Award  designated  as  intended  to  satisfy  the  requirements  for  performance-based  compensation  may 
not  be  adjusted  to  increase  the  value  of  such  Award.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  by  the  Committee,  the 
Committee  shall  retain  the  discretion  to  adjust  such  Awards  in  a  manner  that  does  not  increase  such 
Awards.  In  no  event  will  a  Participant  become  eligible  for  payment  for  an  Award  for  any  calendar  year  in 
excess  of  $10,000,000. 

Withholding  Taxes.  The  Company  shall  have  the  right  to  deduct  from  all  payments  under  the 
Incentive  Plan  any  taxes  required  to  be  withheld  with  respect  to  such  payments. 

Change  in  Control.  In  the  event  of  a  change  in  control  of  the  Company,  as  defined  in  the  Yum! 
Brands,  Inc.  Long  Term  Incentive  Plan,  the  Performance  Period  will  be  deemed  to  have  concluded  on  the 
date  of  the  change  of  control  and  each  Participant  will  receive  a  pro  rata  amount  (based  on  the  number  of 
days  in  such  Performance  Period  elapsed  through  the  date  of  the  change  of  control)  equal  to  the  greater  of 
the  Participant’s  target  amount  or  the  amount  the  Participant  would  have  earned  for  the  Performance 
Period  assuming  continued  achievement  of  the  relevant  performance  goals  at  the  rate  achieved  as  of  the 
date  of  the  change  of  control. 

Return  of  Overpayments.  The  Incentive  Plan  provides  that  if  an  amount  paid  is  based  on  attainment 
of  a  level  of  objective  performance  goals  that  was  overstated  as  a  result  of  misconduct,  with  the  result  that 
the  payment  was  larger  than  it  should  have  been,  the  Committee  may  require  that  the  excess  be  repaid  to 
the  Company. 

Administration.  The  Incentive  Plan  is  administered  by  a  committee  (the  “Committee”)  selected  by 
the  Board  and  consisting  solely  of  two  or  more  non-employee  members  of  the  Board.  The  Committee  will 
have  the  authority  and  discretion  to  select  from  among  the  Eligible  Employees  those  persons  who  shall 
receive  Awards,  to  determine  the  time  or  times  of  payment  with  respect  to  the  Awards,  to  establish  the 
terms,  conditions,  performance  goals,  restrictions,  and  other  provisions  of  such  Awards,  and  to  cancel  or 
suspend  Awards.  The  Committee  will  have  the  authority  and  discretion  to  interpret  the  Incentive  Plan,  to 
establish,  amend,  and  rescind  any  rules  and  regulations  relating  to  the  Incentive  Plan,  to  determine  the 
terms  and  provisions  of  any  Award  made  pursuant  to  the  Incentive  Plan,  and  to  make  all  other 
determinations  that  may  be  necessary  or  advisable  for  the  administration  of  the  Incentive  Plan.  Any 
interpretation  of  the  Incentive  Plan  by  the  Committee  and  any  decision  made  by  it  under  the  Incentive 
Plan  is  final  and  binding  on  all  persons.  The  Committee  may  allocate  all  or  any  portion  of  its 
responsibilities  and  powers  to  any  one  or  more  of  its  members  and  may  delegate  all  or  any  part  of  its 
responsibilities  and  powers  to  any  person  or  persons  selected  by  it.  Until  action  to  the  contrary  is  taken  by 
the  Committee,  the  Committee’s  authority  with  respect  to  matters  concerning  Participants  below  the 


19 


Executive  Officer  level  is  delegated  to  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  or  the  Chief  People  Officer  of  the 
Company. 

Amendment  or  Termination.  The  Board  may,  at  any  time,  amend  or  terminate  the  Incentive  Plan, 
provided  that  no  amendment  or  termination  may,  in  the  absence  of  consent  to  the  change  by  the  affected 
Participant,  adversely  affect  the  rights  of  any  Participant  or  beneficiary  under  any  Award  granted  under  the 
Incentive  Plan  prior  to  the  date  such  amendment  is  adopted  by  the  Board. 

THE  BOARD  OF  DIRECTORS  RECOMMENDS  A  VOTE  FOR  APPROVAL  OF  THE 
YUM!  BRANDS,  INC.  EXECUTIVE  INCENTIVE  COMPENSATION  PLAN  AS  AMENDED 
THROUGH  THE  SECOND  AMENDMENT 
INCLUDING  THE  PERFORMANCE  GOALS  FOR  THE  PLAN. 

What  vote  is  required  to  approve  this  proposal? 

Approval  of  this  proposal  requires  the  affirmative  vote  of  a  majority  of  the  shares  present  in  person  or 
represented  by  proxy  and  entitled  to  vote  at  the  Annual  Meeting. 


20 


ITEM  4:  SHAREHOLDER  PROPOSAL  RELATING  TO  SHAREHOLDER  RIGHTS  PLAN 
(Item  4  on  the  Proxy  Card) 

What  am  I  voting  on? 

The  Trowel  Trades  S&P  500  Index  Fund  has  advised  us  that  they  intend  to  present  the  following 
shareholder  proposal  at  the  Annual  Meeting.  We  will  furnish  the  addresses  and  the  share  ownership  of  the 
proponent  upon  request. 

RESOLVED,  That  the  shareholders  of  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  (hereinafter  “the  Company”)  request  that 
our  Directors  submit  the  adoption,  maintenance  or  extension  of  any  poison  pill  to  a  shareholder  vote  as  a 
separate  ballot  item  at  the  earliest  next  shareholder  election. 

SUPPORTING  STATEMENT 

The  Company’s  Board  of  Directors  adopted  a  shareholder  rights  plan,  commonly  known  as  a  “poison 
pill”,  without  shareholder  approval.  This  plan  is  an  anti-takeover  device  that  can  adversely  affect 
shareholder  value  by  discouraging  takeovers  that  could  be  beneficial  to  shareholders. 

Poison  pills,  according  to  the  book  “Power  and  Accountability”  by  Nell  Minow  and  Robert  Monks: 
“amount  to  major  de  facto  shifts  of  voting  rights  away  from  shareholders  to  management  on  matters 
pertaining  to  the  sale  of  the  corporation.  They  give  target  boards  of  directors  absolute  veto  power  over  any 
proposed  business  combination,  no  matter  how  beneficial  it  might  be  for  the  shareholders.” 

Thus  it  is  no  surprise  that  the  Shareholder  Bill  of  Rights  adopted  by  the  Council  of  Institutional 
Investors,  whose  members  represent  nearly  $3  trillion  in  benefit  fund  assets,  calls  for  poison  pills  to  be 
approved  by  shareholders  before  they  take  effect. 

At  a  minimum,  the  shareholders  of  our  Company  should  have  the  right  to  vote  on  the  necessity  of 
adopting  such  a  powerful  anti-takeover  weapon.  Therefore,  your  support  for  this  proposal  is  respectfully 
sought. 


MANAGEMENT  STATEMENT  IN  OPPOSITION 
TO  SHAREHOLDER  PROPOSAL 

What  is  the  recommendation  of  the  Board  of  Directors? 

THE  BOARD  OF  DIRECTORS  RECOMMENDS  THAT  YOU  VOTE  AGAINST  THIS  PROPOSAL. 
What  is  the  Company’s  position  regarding  this  proposal? 

Adoption  of  this  proposal  would  require  the  Board  of  Directors  to  submit  any  shareholder  rights  plan 
to  a  shareholder  vote  at  the  earliest  next  shareholder  meeting. 

Contrary  to  the  shareholder  supporting  statement  to  their  proposal,  the  company  currently  has  no 
shareholder  rights  plan  (or  poison  pill)  in  place  and,  while  the  Board  may  in  the  future  determine  it  is  in 
the  best  interest  of  shareholders  and  the  Company  to  put  a  shareholder  rights  plan  in  place,  the  Board  of 
Directors  has  no  plans  to  adopt  one.  In  fact,  the  Board  took  affirmative  steps  to  eliminate  the  Company’s 
poison  pill  in  2007  prior  to  its  scheduled  expiration  date.  The  Board  is  required  at  all  times  to  act  in  the 
best  interests  of  shareholders,  including  in  any  decision  to  adopt,  maintain,  amend  or  terminate  a  poison 
pill.  The  Board  believes  that  shareholder  rights  plans  can  be  a  useful  tool  in  some  circumstances  to  protect 
the  best  interest  of  its  shareholders.  At  other  companies,  potential  purchasers  have  made  offers  in  the  face 
of  such  plans  but  the  existence  of  the  plans  allows  boards  to  protect  strategies  for  realizing  long-term  value 
and  to  maximize  the  value  of  the  shareholders’  investment  by  encouraging  potential  purchasers  to 
negotiate  directly  with  the  board.  The  Board,  therefore,  believes  it  is  important  to  maintain  flexibility  to 
adopt  plans  with  terms  appropriate  to  a  variety  of  circumstances. 


21 


Why  does  the  Company  oppose  this  proposal? 

The  Board  does  not  believe  that  requiring  shareholder  approval  of  a  shareholder  rights  plan  would 
enhance  value  for  shareholders.  Such  a  requirement  would  limit  the  Board’s  flexibility  in  responding  to  a 
takeover  attempt  which  is  not  in  the  best  interests  of  shareholders.  In  short,  in  the  dynamic  and  highly 
variable  circumstances  in  which  the  Board  might  need  to  consider  an  acquisition  transaction,  the  proposals 
would  impose  limitations  that  could  have  consequences  adverse  to  shareholders’  interests.  Accordingly,  the 
Board  recommends  a  vote  against  this  proposal. 

FOR  THESE  REASONS,  WE  RECOMMEND  THAT  YOU  VOTE  AGAINST  THIS  PROPOSAL. 
What  vote  is  required  to  approve  this  proposal? 

Approval  of  this  proposal  requires  the  affirmative  vote  of  a  majority  of  the  shares  present  in  person  or 
represented  by  proxy  and  entitled  to  vote  at  the  Annual  Meeting. 


22 


ITEM  5:  SHAREHOLDER  PROPOSAL 

RELATING  TO  AN  ADVISORY  SHAREHOLDER  VOTE  TO  RATIFY  EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION 
(Item  5  on  the  Proxy  Card) 

What  am  I  voting  on? 

Home  Missioners  of  America  has  advised  us  that  they  intend  to  present  the  following  shareholder 
proposal  at  the  Annual  Meeting.  We  will  furnish  the  address  and  share  ownership  of  the  proponent  upon 
request. 


ADVISORY  VOTE  ON  EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION 

RESOLVED,  that  shareholders  of  YUM!  Brands  request  the  board  of  directors  to  adopt  a  policy  that 
provides  shareholders  the  opportunity  at  each  annual  shareholder  meeting  to  vote  on  an  advisory 
resolution,  proposed  by  management,  to  ratify  the  compensation  of  the  named  executive  officers 
(“NEOs”)  set  forth  in  the  proxy  statement’s  Summary  Compensation  Table  (the  “SCT”)  and  the 
accompanying  narrative  disclosure  of  material  factors  provided  to  understand  the  SCT  (but  not  the 
Compensation  Discussion  and  Analysis).  The  proposal  submitted  to  shareholders  should  make  clear  that 
the  vote  is  non-binding  and  would  not  affect  any  compensation  paid  or  awarded  to  any  NEO. 

SUPPORTING  STATEMENT 

Investors  are  increasingly  concerned  about  mushrooming  executive  compensation  especially  when  it  is 
insufficiently  linked  to  performance.  In  2008,  shareholders  filed  close  to  100  “Say  on  Pay”  resolutions. 
Votes  on  these  resolutions  have  averaged  43%  in  favor,  including  41.7%  at  YUM!  Brands,  with  ten  votes 
over  50%,  demonstrating  strong  shareholder  support  for  this  reform. 

An  Advisory  Vote  establishes  an  annual  referendum  process  for  shareholders  about  senior  executive 
compensation.  We  believe  the  results  of  this  vote  would  provide  the  board  and  management  useful 
information  about  shareholder  views  on  the  company’s  senior  executive  compensation. 

In  its  2008  proxy  Aflac  submitted  an  Advisory  Vote  resulting  in  a  93%  vote  in  favor,  indicating  strong 
investor  support  for  good  disclosure  and  a  reasonable  compensation  package.  Daniel  Amos,  Chairman  and 
CEO  said,  ‘An  advisory  vote  on  our  compensation  report  is  a  helpful  avenue  for  our  shareholders  to 
provide  feedback  on  our  pay-for-performance  compensation  philosophy  and  pay  package.” 

To  date  eight  other  companies  have  also  agreed  to  an  Advisory  Vote,  including  Verizon,  MBLA,  H&R 
Block,  Blockbuster,  and  Tech  Data.  TIAA-CREF,  the  country’s  largest  pension  fund,  has  successfully 
utilized  the  Advisory  Vote  twice. 

Influential  proxy  voting  service  RiskMetrics  Group,  recommends  votes  in  favor,  noting:  “RiskMetrics 
encourages  companies  to  allow  shareholders  to  express  their  opinions  of  executive  compensation  practices 
by  establishing  an  annual  referendum  process.  An  advisory  vote  on  executive  compensation  is  another  step 
forward  in  enhancing  board  accountability.” 

The  Council  of  Institutional  Investors  endorsed  advisory  votes  and  a  bill  to  allow  annual  advisory 
votes  passed  the  House  of  Representatives  by  a  2-to-l  margin.  As  presidential  candidates,  Senators  Obama 
and  McCain  supported  the  Advisory  Vote. 

We  believe  that  existing  U.S.  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  rules  and  stock  exchange  listing 
standards  do  not  provide  shareholders  with  sufficient  mechanisms  for  providing  input  to  boards  on  senior 
executive  compensation.  In  contrast,  in  the  United  Kingdom,  public  companies  allow  shareholders  to  cast  a 
vote  on  the  “directors’  remuneration  report,”  which  discloses  executive  compensation.  Such  a  vote  isn’t 
binding,  but  gives  shareholders  a  clear  voice  that  could  help  shape  senior  executive  compensation. 


23 


We  believe  that  a  company  that  has  a  clearly  explained  compensation  philosophy  and  metrics, 
reasonably  links  pay  to  performance,  and  communicates  effectively  to  investors  would  find  a  management 
sponsored  Advisory  Vote  a  helpful  tool. 

We  urge  our  board  to  allow  shareholders  to  express  their  opinion  about  senior  executive 
compensation  through  an  Advisory  Vote. 

MANAGEMENT  STATEMENT  IN  OPPOSITION 
TO  SHAREHOLDER  PROPOSAL 

What  is  the  recommendation  of  the  Board  of  Directors? 

THE  BOARD  OF  DIRECTORS  RECOMMENDS  THAT  YOU  VOTE  AGAINST  THIS  PROPOSAL. 
What  is  the  Company’s  position  regarding  this  proposal? 

This  proposal  seeks  to  solicit  a  non-binding  vote  from  shareholders  regarding  the  compensation 
provided  to  the  executives  named  in  the  Company’s  Summary  Compensation  Table.  For  the  reasons 
explained  below,  the  Board  of  Directors  does  not  believe  the  proposal  is  in  the  best  interest  of  YUM  or 
our  shareholders. 

Why  does  the  Company  oppose  this  proposal? 

The  Board  of  Directors  reached  its  decision  to  oppose  this  proposal  after  careful  consideration  of  the 
Compensation  Committee’s  in-depth  study  of  the  pros  and  cons  of  adopting  the  advisory  vote,  which  was 
completed  in  early  2008,  and  after  discussing  this  issue  with  a  number  of  our  largest  shareholders.  As 
further  explained  below,  our  primary  reasons  for  opposing  the  proposal  include: 

•  We  believe  shareholders  play  an  important  role  in  corporate  governance  through  the  election  of 
directors,  but  direct  engagement  and  dialogue  is  more  effective  than  a  “yes”  or  “no”  vote  with 
respect  to  executive  compensation; 

•  We  do  not  believe  that  reducing  the  complex  decisions  that  go  into  designing  and  administering  a 
successful  compensation  program  to  a  “yes”  or  “no”  vote  is  an  effective  or  efficient  way  to  obtain 
shareholder  input; 

•  We  believe  that  YUM’s  executive  pay  program  has  driven  strong  company  performance  and 
shareholder  returns,  and  it  would  not  benefit  YUM  or  our  shareholders  to  alter  this  successful 
program;  and 

•  We  believe  that  implementing  an  advisory  vote  at  YUM  while  not  implementing  the  same  vote  at 
YUM’s  competitors  and  peers  would  put  YUM  at  a  competitive  disadvantage  in  attracting  and 
retaining  executive  talent,  thereby  negatively  affecting  YUM’s  performance  and  our  shareholders. 

Although  our  Articles  of  Incorporation  grant  exclusive  authority  to  fix  executive  compensation  to  the 
Board  of  Directors,  the  Board  believes  that  both  transparency  and  shareholder  input  on  the  subject  are 
important.  In  fact,  in  each  of  the  past  two  years  we  have  reached  out  to  a  number  of  our  largest 
shareholders  to  understand  their  perspective  on  this  issue.  We  will  continue  to  closely  monitor 
developments  on  this  issue  and  discuss  the  advisory  vote  with  our  large  shareholders  and  other 
shareholders  who  wish  to  engage  us.  While  we  believe  that  this  direct  engagement  has  further  enhanced 
communication  with  our  shareholders,  YUM  has  always  maintained  an  open  door  policy.  We  encourage 
shareholders  to  express  their  opinions  on  all  matters  of  interest  to  them,  including  executive  compensation, 
by  contacting  members  of  the  Board,  including  members  of  the  Compensation  Committee,  as  described  on 
page  10  regarding  “How  do  shareholders  communicate  with  the  Board?”  This  direct  engagement  allows 
shareholders  to  clearly  and  specifically  share  their  opinions  on  our  executive  compensation  program 
directly  with  us.  A  simple  “yes”  or  “no”  vote  on  compensation  does  not  provide  that  level  of 


communication  or  understanding.  This  is  especially  true  in  the  event  of  a  “no”  vote  on  compensation  since 
the  vote  alone  will  not  provide  any  insight  into  what  specific  items  shareholders  are  voting  against  (or  why 
they  voted  against  it).  We  believe  that  our  current  process  of  direct  engagement  already  allows  an  avenue 
for  discussion  of  specific  concerns  regarding  compensation.  A  retrospective  advisory  vote  would  not 
improve  or  significantly  alter  that  process  of  direct  engagement. 

Our  Compensation  Committee,  which  is  comprised  entirely  of  independent,  non-employee  directors, 
is  responsible  for  designing  and  administering  our  executive  compensation  program.  Decisions  on  how  best 
to  carry  out  these  responsibilities  are  influenced  by  economic  and  industry  conditions,  current  and  future 
strategic  goals,  accounting  requirements  and  tax  laws,  evolving  governance  trends,  as  well  as  the  practices 
of  our  peers  and  competitors.  Reducing  a  series  of  complicated  decisions  by  independent  directors  who  are 
intimately  familiar  with  all  relevant  factors  to  a  single,  after-the-fact,  “yes”  or  “no”  advisory  vote  is  not  an 
effective  or  efficient  method  to  obtain  shareholder  input. 

As  further  discussed  in  our  “Compensation  Discussion  and  Analysis,”  our  Compensation  Committee’s 
goal  is  to  use  our  compensation  program  to  attract,  reward  and  retain  the  talented  leaders  necessary  to 
enable  our  Company  to  succeed  in  the  highly  competitive  market  for  talent,  while  maximizing  shareholder 
returns.  Our  management  team,  which  has  been  attracted,  rewarded  and  retained  through  our 
compensation  program,  has  been  a  key  driver  in  YUM’s  strong  performance  over  both  the  short  and  long¬ 
term.  For  example,  as  shown  in  the  table  below,  YUM’s  investor  total  return  compares  favorably  against 
the  S&P  500  Index,  a  group  of  nondurable  consumer  products  companies  that  are  used  in  setting 
benchmarks  for  our  CEO’s  compensation  (as  further  described  on  page  49),  as  well  as  a  select  group  of 
global  growth  companies  including  Colgate-Palmolive  Company,  Kellogg  Company,  McDonald’s 
Corporation,  PepsiCo,  Inc.,  Starbucks  Corporation,  The  Coca-Cola  Company  and  The  Procter  &  Gamble 
Company,  over  one,  five  and  ten  years. 

Investor  Total  Return(1) 2 3  Comparison  (as  of  12/31/08) 

1  Year  5  Year  10  Year 


YUM!  Brands,  Inc .  -16%  14%  10% 

S&P  500  Index .  -37%  _-2%  -1% 

Nondurable  Consumer  Products  Group® .  —28%  —3%  1% 

Global  Consumer  Group® .  -19%  5%  4% 


(1)  Compound  annual  growth  rate  of  stock  price  adjusted  for  stock  splits  and  dividends.  For  the 
“Nondurable  Consumer  Products  Group”  and  “Global  Consumer  Group,”  the  total  investor  return 
was  calculated  by  taking  the  average  of  the  total  investor  returns  for  all  of  the  individual  companies 
included  in  the  respective  group. 

(2)  Includes  only  the  publicly-traded  companies  included  in  the  nondurable  consumer  products  group 
discussed  on  page  49.  The  group  includes  AutoNation,  Inc.,  AutoZone,  Inc.,  Avon  Products,  Inc., 
Blockbuster  Inc.,  The  Coca-Cola  Company,  Colgate-Palmolive  Company,  CVS  Caremark 
Corporation,  Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.,  The  Gap,  Inc.,  General  Mills,  Inc.,  J.C.  Penney 
Company,  Inc.,  Kellogg  Company,  Kimberly-Clark  Corporation,  Kohl’s  Corporation,  Limited  Brands, 
Lowe’s  Companies,  Inc.,  Macy’s,  Inc.,  Marriott  International,  Inc.,  McDonald’s  Corporation,  Office 
Depot,  OfficeMax  Incorporated,  PepsiCo,  Inc.,  Staples,  Inc.  and  Walgreen  Co. 

(3)  Includes  Colgate-Palmolive  Company,  Kellogg  Company,  McDonald’s  Corporation,  PepsiCo,  Inc., 
Starbucks  Corporation,  The  Coca-Cola  Company  and  The  Procter  &  Gamble  Company. 

In  other  words,  we  believe  our  compensation  program  has  played  an  important  role  in  driving  strong 
shareholder  returns.  We  do  not  believe  it  would  benefit  YUM  or  our  shareholders  to  alter  this  successful 


25 


program  at  this  time.  We  will,  however,  always  seek  the  ideas  and  input  of  our  shareholders  on  this 
important  matter. 

Above  all,  the  Board,  as  fiduciaries  for  the  shareholders,  believes  that  an  advisory  vote  on  executive 
compensation  is  simply  not  in  the  best  interests  of  YUM’s  shareholders.  The  Board  is  not  aware  of  any 
competitor  who  has  adopted  the  advisory  vote,  and  we  understand  that  similar  proposals  were  defeated  at 
the  vast  majority  of  companies  where  they  were  proposed  last  year.  Implementing  an  advisory  vote  at 
YUM — but  not  at  our  competitors — could  create  the  impression  among  our  executives  that  their 
compensation  opportunities  could  be  limited  or  negatively  affected,  while  those  opportunities  would  not  be 
so  limited  at  our  competitors.  Thus,  the  advisory  vote  could  put  us  at  a  competitive  disadvantage  in 
attracting  and  retaining  executive  talent,  and  that  would  ultimately  harm  our  business  and  negatively  affect 
our  shareholders.  Until  a  consensus  has  been  formed  on  the  advisory  vote  or  federal  legislation  relating  to 
the  topic  is  enacted,  implementation  of  this  proposal  is  premature  and  potentially  harmful  as  the  advisory 
vote  on  executive  compensation  would  not  be  applied  uniformly. 

We  also  note  that  a  similar  proposal  was  submitted  at  our  last  two  Annual  Meetings.  We  opposed  the 
proposal  each  year,  and  a  significant  majority  of  shareholders  voted  against  the  proposal  both  times. 

After  careful  consideration  of  the  proposal,  studying  the  pros  and  cons  of  the  advisory  vote  and 
discussions  with  shareholders,  the  Board  of  Directors  does  not  believe  the  proposal  would  be  in  the  best 
interest  of  YUM  or  our  shareholders. 

FOR  THESE  REASONS,  WE  RECOMMEND  THAT  YOU  VOTE  AGAINST  THIS  PROPOSAL. 
What  vote  is  required  to  approve  this  proposal? 

Approval  of  this  proposal  requires  the  affirmative  vote  of  a  majority  of  the  shares  present  in  person  or 
represented  by  proxy  and  entitled  to  vote  at  the  Annual  Meeting. 


ITEM  6:  SHAREHOLDER  PROPOSAL 
RELATING  TO  FOOD  SUPPLY  CHAIN  SECURITY  AND  SUSTAINABILITY 
(Item  6  on  the  Proxy  Card) 


What  am  I  voting  on? 

The  Sisters  of  Charity,  the  General  Board  of  Pension  and  Health  Benefits  of  United  Methodist 
Church,  the  MMA  Praxis  Growth  Index  Fund  and  the  Sisters  of  St.  Francis  of  Philadelphia  have  advised  us 
that  they  intend  to  present  the  following  shareholder  proposal  at  the  Annual  Meeting.  We  will  furnish  the 
addresses  and  the  share  ownership  of  the  proponents  upon  request. 

FOOD  SUPPLY  CHAIN 
SECURITY  and  SUSTAINABILITY 


WHEREAS: 

Nearly  two-thirds  of  corporate  executives  worldwide  surveyed  by  McKinsey  &  Company  said  “their 
companies  face  a  rising  level  of  risk  to  their  ability  to  supply  customers  with  goods  and  services  cost 
effectively.”  Yet,  the  survey  found 

[f]ew  executives  are  confident  that  their  companies  can  manage  these  risks  successfully  and  businesses 
are  making  surprisingly  little  use  of  some  well-known  analytical  tools  and  simple  best  practices  that 
could  help. 

The  McKinsey  Quarterly  2007  Number  1,  pages  10-12. 

The  global  food  production  system  faces  numerous  challenges: 

•  Severe  droughts  and  increasing  water  scarcity  in  key  agricultural  regions  linked  to  global  warming; 

•  Rising  prices  for  oil  and  petroleum-based  agricultural  inputs;  and 

•  Competing  use  of  food  crops  for  bio-fuels. 

Several  dramatic  events  have  undermined  consumer  confidence  by  highlighting  weaknesses  in  the 
food  safety  system: 

•  Closure  of  Topps  Meat  Co.,  the  largest  U.S.  manufacturer  of  frozen  hamburger,  following  recall  of 
21.7  million  pounds  of  hamburger  contaminated  with  e-coli. 

•  Nationwide  recall  of  spinach  from  California,  which  produces  74%  of  the  U.S.  spinach  crop,  due  to 
e-coli  contamination. 

•  Contamination  of  the  long-grain  rice  supply  in  the  southern  United  States  with  genetically 
engineered  rice  not  approved  for  human  consumption,  leading  Japan  to  ban  imports  of  U.S.  long 
grain  rice  and  the  EU  to  require  testing  of  all  U.S.  rice  shipments. 

•  Sale  of  poisoned  pet  food,  tainted  seafood  and  other  products  from  China  containing  toxic 
ingredients 

According  to  a  Consumer  Reports  survey,  92%  of  Americans  want  to  know  the  country  of  origin  for 
their  food.  http://greenerchoices.  org/products.  efm  ?product = crfood&pcat  =food 

Pesticide  residues  on  imported  fruits  and  vegetables,  which  account  for  about  one-third  of  U.S. 
consumption  of  these  products,  are  “major  and  growing”  contributors  to  dietary  risk.  While  U.S.  farmers 
have  adopted  lower-risk  use  patterns,  growers  outside  the  U.S.  continue  using  older,  higher-risk  pesticides. 
Impacts  of  the  Food  Quality  Protection  Act  on  Children’s  Exposures  to  Pesticides,  pages  10-11  (2006). 
http://www. organiccenter. org/reportfiles 17452 _  Landrigan  _AAAS %20Paper. pdf 


27 


The  UN  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  (FAO)  warned  that  increasing  industrialization  of  pig  and 
poultry  production  “could  lead  to  a  higher  risk  of  disease  transmission  from  animals  to  humans.”  The  large 
quantities  of  animal  waste  contain  many  pathogens  and  the  movement  of  the  animals  in  international  trade 
increases  the  likelihood  pathogen  transfers.  The  FAO  cited  the  “recent  emergence  of  contagious  human 
diseases  from  animals”  such  as  Nipah  in  1999,  SAKS  in  2002  and  the  current  epidemic  of  Highly 
Pathogenic  Avian  Influenza  (HPAI).  Industrial  Livestock  Production  and  Global  Health  Risks  (June  2007). 
http://www.fao.org/ag/againfo/projects/en/pplpi/docarc/rep-hpa  i_industrialisationrisks.pdf 

RESOLVED:  Shareholders  request  that  the  Board  of  Directors  report  to  shareholders  by  December, 
2009  on  measures  taken  to  ensure  the  long-term  sustainability  and  security  of  our  company’s  product 
supply  chain,  including: 

•  Strategies  to  significantly  reduce  waste,  energy  and  water  use  throughout  the  supply  chain; 

•  Resource  conservation  programs  and  pollution  prevention  measures  for  the  full  product  life-cycle; 

•  Labeling  products  for  country  of  origin  and  presence  of  genetically  modified  ingredients;  and 

•  Safety  testing  and  systems  to  ensure  identity  preservation  and  traceability  “from  farm  to  fork.” 

MANAGEMENT  STATEMENT  IN  OPPOSITION 
TO  SHAREHOLDER  PROPOSAL 

What  is  the  recommendation  of  the  Board  of  Directors? 

THE  BOARD  OF  DIRECTORS  RECOMMENDS  THAT  YOU  VOTE  AGAINST  THIS  PROPOSAL. 
What  is  the  Company’s  position  regarding  the  sustainability  proposal? 

YUM  is  fully  committed  to  ensuring  that  all  of  our  facilities  and  supply  chains,  whether  in  the  U.S.  or 
any  other  country,  are  operated  legally,  ethically  and  responsibly  and  in  a  manner  that  benefits  the 
communities  in  which  they  are  located.  Our  Worldwide  Code  of  Conduct,  summarized  on  our  Web  site, 
under  the  “Governance”  section,  guides  our  activities  around  the  world.  You  can  download  a  copy  of  our 
Worldwide  Code  of  Conduct  at  www.yum.com/govemance/conduct.asp.  It  commits  us  to  act  as  an 
environmentally  responsible  corporate  citizen,  to  provide  a  safe  and  healthy  work  environment,  and  to 
seek  methods  that  are  both  socially  responsible  and  economically  sound. 

We  are  proud  of  our  recent  accomplishments  in  this  area.  For  example,  in  2006  we  established  a 
dedicated  Corporate  Social  Responsibility  role  with  the  goal  of  reviewing  and  assessing  our  global  impacts 
in  social,  environmental  and  economic  areas  and  developing  strategies  and  initiatives  in  response.  We  also 
issued  our  first  global  Corporate  Responsibility  report  in  2008  addressing  areas  of  achievement  and 
opportunity  relating  to  social,  environmental  and  economic  impacts.  You  can  download  a  copy  of  our 
Corporate  Responsibility  report  at  www.yum.com/responsibility/pdf/yum08csrrpt.pdf.  In  2006,  YUM  also 
formed  an  Environmental  Leadership  Council  whose  goal  is  to  identify,  design,  test  and  deploy  programs 
that  drive  measurable  sustainability  advances.  Some  of  the  aspects  of  our  business  that  this  committee  is 
addressing  include:  building  materials  and  design,  energy  conservation,  energy  procurement,  waste, 
packaging  and  education.  With  respect  to  energy  conservation,  our  U.S.  company-owned  restaurants  have 
significantly  reduced  energy  use  since  2005,  and  are  well  on  their  way  to  achieving  a  stated  goal  of  12% 
reduction  in  energy  use  from  2007  levels  by  2010.  Our  entire  system  of  restaurants  is  also  in  the  process  of 
implementing  equipment  and  behavior  changes  and  retrofits  that  address  environmental  impact,  including 
energy  and  water  use,  recycling  of  cardboard  and  paper  products,  recycling  of  spent  grease  from  fryers,  use 
of  energy  efficient  equipment  and  better  energy  management  systems. 

We  recognize  that  our  decentralized  business  model,  with  predominantly  franchised  restaurants  in 
over  110  countries  and  territories  as  well  as  manufacturing  and  processing  plants  in  even  more  countries, 
will  require  a  customized  approach  to  addressing  supply  chain  opportunities  in  our  international  markets. 


We  seek  to  build  a  globally  consistent  and  rigorous  program  that  will  reflect  our  rapid  international  growth, 
with  a  keen  eye  to  emerging  markets.  We  work  collaboratively  with  our  suppliers,  business  partners  and 
local  stakeholders  to  ensure  that  we  adapt  our  business  and  social  requirements  to  local  markets. 

With  respect  to  our  suppliers,  they  are  required  to  comply  with  the  laws  and  regulations  of  the 
countries  and  localities  in  which  they  operate.  To  encourage  compliance  with  all  legal  requirements  and 
ethical  business  practices,  YUM  has  established  a  supplier  code  of  conduct  summarized  on  our  web  site  at 
www.yum.com/responsibility/supply_chain.asp.  Suppliers  are  expected  to  conduct  audits  and  inspections  to 
ensure  compliance  with  YUM’s  Supplier  Code  of  Conduct  and  applicable  laws  and  regulations.  Failure  to 
observe  the  Code  of  Conduct  may  subject  the  supplier  to  disciplinary  action,  which  could  include 
termination  of  the  supplier  relationship. 

With  respect  to  safety  testing,  we  require  our  suppliers  to  be  able  to  trace  products  and  ingredients 
within  their  supply  chain.  We  currently  conduct  testing  and  evaluation  of  suppliers  and  their  products  and 
pride  ourselves  on  our  stringent  qualification  system.  And  since  2007,  we  have  grown  our  active  leadership 
role  in  helping  to  minimize  the  chances  that  our  produce  could  be  contaminated  through: 

•  field  inspections  of  our  produce  suppliers  that  focus  on  water  testing  for  E.  coli\ 

•  pre-planting  inspections  to  help  ensure  that  only  low-risk  fields  are  used; 

•  pre-harvest  testing  for  E.  coli  and  Salmonella  pathogens  of  produce,  including  iceberg  lettuce, 
cilantro,  romaine  lettuce,  cabbage  and  tomatoes; 

•  collaboration  with  the  U.S.  Centers  for  Disease  Control  and  Prevention  and  the  U.S.  Food  and 
Drug  Administration  to  proactively  share  information  on  the  issue; 

•  training  programs  to  certify  supplier  staff  and  third-party  auditors  on  criteria  for  pre-planting  and 
pre-harvesting  risk  assessments; 

•  sponsorship  of  summits  with  key  growers,  suppliers  and  users  to  gain  alignment  on  produce  safety; 
and 

•  multiple  joint-produce  safety  meetings  on  testing  and  best  practices  with  industry  leaders,  including 
other  major  quickservice  restaurants,  retailers  and  distributors. 

With  respect  to  labeling  for  the  presence  of  genetically  modified  organisms  (GMOs),  we  follow  all 
government  regulations  wherever  we  operate.  In  North  America,  GMOs  are  generally  accepted,  whereas 
in  Europe,  consumers  are  more  resistant  to  GMOs.  Where  resistance  to  GMOs  exists,  our  subsidiary, 
Yum!  Restaurants  International,  requires  all  of  its  suppliers  to  provide  non-GMO  ingredients.  For 
example: 

•  In  the  U.K.,  the  Netherlands,  Germany  and  Australia,  we  do  not  source  from  suppliers  who  use 
GMOs  or  growth  hormones  in  chicken. 

•  In  China,  we  follow  Chinese  regulations  regarding  GMO  ingredients  and  require  statements  from 
suppliers  regarding  their  GMO  content. 

•  In  South  Africa,  no  GMOs  or  growth  hormones  are  used  by  any  of  our  suppliers. 

We  do  not  believe  that  labeling  the  country  of  origin  of  our  products  is  a  necessary  method  of 
reducing  risk. 

Why  does  the  Company  oppose  this  proposal? 

We  work  hard  to  be  a  good  corporate  citizen  and  promote  social,  environmental  and  economic  issues. 
We  have  been,  and  will  continue  to  be,  committed  to  upholding  and  abiding  by  all  laws  and  regulations  that 
govern  our  operations,  wherever  we  operate.  We  are  equally  committed  to  ensuring  that  our  suppliers 


29 


abide  by  all  laws  and  regulations  and  established  industry  practice  that  govern  their  business,  wherever 
they  operate,  and  we  have  developed  the  resources,  through  the  purchasing  cooperative  of  which  we  are  a 
member  in  the  U.S.,  to  independently  evaluate  supplier  conduct.  If  it  is  brought  to  our  attention  that  any 
supplier  of  YUM  is  in  repeated  violation  of  any  employment  law  or  regulation  governing  their  business, 
and  corrective  action  is  not  taken,  we  would  terminate  our  approval  of  this  supplier.  Moreover,  we  will 
continue  our  commitment  to  protecting  the  environment  and  enhancing  the  quality  of  life  in  the 
communities  in  which  we  operate. 

We  beheve  that  creating  the  report  required  by  the  proposal  would  not  be  productive  because  our  own 
business  interests  require  that  our  food  chain  be  both  safe  and  sustainable,  and  we  have  available  the 
expertise  to  make  those  determinations  internally.  We  are  working  to  leverage  these  resources  and 
improve  in  the  areas  discussed  above.  In  addition,  many  of  these  issues  were  recently  discussed  and 
addressed  in  detail  in  our  global  Corporate  Responsibility  Report.  In  sum,  the  proposed  sustainability 
report  and  review  is  unnecessary  and  would  not  result  in  any  additional  benefit  to  our  shareholders  or 
employees.  The  proposed  report  would  be  costly  and  time-intensive,  and  is  duplicative  of  many  of  our 
existing  initiatives,  pohcies  and  efforts. 

FOR  THESE  REASONS,  WE  RECOMMEND  THAT  YOU  VOTE  AGAINST  THIS  PROPOSAL. 
What  vote  is  required  to  approve  this  proposal? 

Approval  of  this  proposal  requires  the  affirmative  vote  of  a  majority  of  the  shares  present  in  person  or 
represented  by  proxy  and  entitled  to  vote  at  the  Annual  Meeting. 


ITEM  7:  SHAREHOLDER  PROPOSAL  RELATING  TO  HEALTHCARE  REFORM  PRINCIPLES 
(Item  7  on  the  Proxy  Card) 

What  am  I  voting  on? 

The  Nathan  Cummings  Foundation  has  advised  us  that  they  intend  to  present  the  following 
shareholder  proposal  at  the  Annual  Meeting.  We  will  furnish  the  address  and  share  ownership  of  the 
proponent  upon  request. 

RESOLVED:  shareholders  urge  the  Board  of  Directors  to  adopt  principles  for  comprehensive  health 
care  reform,  such  as  those  based  upon  principles  reported  by  the  Institute  of  Medicine: 

1.  Health  care  coverage  should  be  universal. 

2.  Health  care  coverage  should  be  continuous. 

3.  Health  care  coverage  should  be  affordable  to  individuals  and  families. 

4.  The  health  insurance  strategy  should  be  affordable  and  sustainable  for  society. 

5.  Health  insurance  should  enhance  health  and  well  being  by  promoting  access  to  high-quality  care 
that  is  effective,  efficient,  safe,  timely,  patient-centered,  and  equitable. 

Polls  (NBC  News/Wall  Street  Journal,  USA  Today/Gallup  and  The  New  York  Times  /CBS  News)  consistently 
show  that  access  to  affordable,  comprehensive  health  care  insurance  is  one  of  the  most  significant  social 
policy  issues  in  America. 

Many  national  organizations  have  made  health  care  reform  a  priority.  In  2007,  representing  “a  stark 
departure  from  past  practice,”  the  American  Cancer  Society  redirected  its  entire  $15  million  advertising 
budget  “to  the  consequences  of  inadequate  health  coverage”  in  the  United  States  (New  York  Times, 
8/31/07). 

John  Castellani,  president  of  the  Business  Roundtable,  which  represents  more  than  150  of  the 
country’s  largest  companies,  states  that  52%  of  the  Business  Roundtable’s  members  say  health  costs 
represent  their  biggest  economic  challenge.  “The  cost  of  health  care  has  put  a  tremendous  weight  on  the 
U.S.  economy,”  according  to  Castellani,  “The  current  situation  is  not  sustainable  in  a  global,  competitive 
workplace.”  (BusinessWeek,  July  3,  2007) 

The  National  Coalition  on  Health  Care,  whose  members  include  75  of  the  United  States’  largest 
publicly-held  companies,  institutional  investors  and  labor  unions,  has  created  principles  for  health 
insurance  reform.  According  to  the  National  Coalition  on  Health  Care,  implementing  its  principles  would 
save  employers  presently  providing  health  insurance  coverage  an  estimated  $595-$848  billion  in  the  first 
10  years  of  implementation. 

Annual  surcharges  as  high  as  $1,160  for  the  uninsured  are  added  to  the  total  cost  of  each  employee’s 
health  insurance,  according  to  Kenneth  Thorpe,  a  leading  health  economist  at  Emory  University. 
Consequently,  we  believe  that  the  45.7  million  Americans  without  health  insurance  result  in  higher  costs 
for  Yum!  Brands  and  other  U.S.  companies  providing  health  insurance  to  their  employees. 

In  our  view,  increasing  health  care  costs  have  focused  growing  public  awareness  and  media  coverage 
on  the  plight  of  active  and  retired  workers  struggling  to  pay  for  medical  care.  Increasing  health  care  costs 
lead  companies  to  shift  costs  to  employees.  This  can  reduce  employee  productivity,  health  and  morale.  We 
also  believe  rising  health  care  costs  borne  by  the  company  have  an  adverse  affect  on  shareholder  value. 

Supporting  Statement 

The  Institute  of  Medicine,  established  by  Congress  as  part  of  the  National  Academy  of  Sciences, 
issued  its  principles  for  reforming  health  insurance  coverage  in  Insuring  America’s  Health:  Principles  and 


31 


Recommendations  (2004).  We  believe  principles  for  health  care  reform,  such  as  the  IOM’s,  are  essential  if 
public  confidence  in  our  company’s  commitment  to  its  employees’  health  care  coverage  is  to  be 
maintained.  We  ask  shareholders  to  support  this  resolution. 

MANAGEMENT  STATEMENT  IN  OPPOSITION 
TO  SHAREHOLDER  PROPOSAL 

What  is  the  recommendation  of  the  Board  of  Directors? 

THE  BOARD  OF  DIRECTORS  RECOMMENDS  THAT  YOU  VOTE  AGAINST  THIS  PROPOSAL. 
What  is  the  Company’s  position  regarding  this  proposal? 

Health  care  reform  is  an  important,  but  complex,  public  policy  issue  that  requires  thoughtful 
discussion  and  public  debate.  We  know  this  firsthand  because  we  provide  health  care  coverage  to 
thousands  of  employees  and  their  families.  Their  health  and  well-being  is  critically  important  to  us.  The 
Company  also  understands  that  employee  health  has  a  direct  correlation  to  productivity  and  that  providing 
health  insurance  enhances  our  ability  to  attract  and  retain  employees.  As  a  result,  we  are  constantly 
looking  for  ways  to  improve  the  quality  and  cost-effectiveness  of  Company-sponsored  health  care  coverage 
and  to  encourage  healthy  lifestyles  for  our  employees. 

Why  does  the  Company  oppose  this  proposal? 

Health  care  reform  on  a  national  scale,  however,  will  require  action  by  the  U.S.  Congress  and  the 
President,  and  input  from  both  ordinary  citizens  and  experts  in  health  care  and  health  insurance  will  be 
critical  to  that  debate.  While  we  acknowledge  the  importance  of  this  issue,  the  Board  does  not  believe  that 
national  health  care  reform  should  be  addressed  through  the  Company’s  annual  meeting  process.  Nor  does 
the  Board  believe  that  our  adoption  of  the  broad  and  vague  principles  of  one  organization  will  contribute 
constructively  to  the  public  dialogue,  will  provide  better  health  care  solutions  for  our  employees  or  will 
benefit  our  shareholders. 

FOR  THESE  REASONS,  WE  RECOMMEND  THAT  YOU  VOTE  AGAINST  THIS  PROPOSAL. 
What  vote  is  required  to  approve  this  proposal? 

Approval  of  this  proposal  requires  the  affirmative  vote  of  a  majority  of  the  shares  present  in  person  or 
represented  by  proxy  and  entitled  to  vote  at  the  Annual  Meeting. 


ITEM  8:  SHAREHOLDER  PROPOSAL  RELATING  TO  ANIMAL  WELFARE 
(Item  8  on  the  Proxy  Card) 

What  am  I  voting  on? 

People  for  the  Ethical  Treatment  of  Animals  has  advised  us  that  they  intend  to  present  the  following 
shareholder  proposal  at  the  Annual  Meeting.  We  will  furnish  the  address  and  share  ownership  of  the 
proponent  upon  request. 

2009  Yum!  Brands  Shareholder  Proposal  on  Animal  Welfare 

RESOLVED  that  shareholders  encourage  the  Board  to  implement  the  March  2005  recommendations 
made  by  former  members  of  KFC’s  animal  welfare  council. 

Supporting  Statement 

As  the  following  examples  illustrate,  there  is  a  clear  gap  between  KFC’s  animal  welfare  claims  and  the 
way  that  birds  killed  for  its  restaurants  are  abused: 

•  Years  after  KFC  made  assurances  that  its  suppliers  treat  animals  humanely,  it  was  documented  that 
workers  at  a  KFC  “Supplier  of  the  Year”  slaughterhouse  were  tearing  live  birds’  heads  off,  spitting 
tobacco  in  their  eyes,  slamming  them  against  walls,  and  spray-painting  their  faces.  In  2007,  birds  at 
another  “Supplier  of  the  Year”  slaughterhouse  were  found  being  impaled  by  broken  equipment  and 
scalded  and  crushed  to  death. 

•  Every  KFC  supplier  in  the  U.S.  kills  birds  by  dumping  and  shackling  them  while  they  are  still  alive, 
paralyzing  them  with  an  electrically  charged  water  bath,  slitting  their  throats  while  they’re  still 
conscious,  and  removing  their  feathers  in  tanks  of  scalding-hot  water. 

•  Birds  suffer  throughout  this  process;  their  wings  and  legs  are  broken,  workers  regularly  abuse  them, 
and  many  are  scalded  to  death  (the  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  reported  that  3.7  million  birds 
were  scalded  to  death  in  one  year  alone). 

•  Five  members  of  KFC’s  touted  animal  welfare  council  have  resigned  in  frustration.  One  former 
member,  Adele  Douglass,  told  the  Chicago  Tribune  that  KFC  “never  had  any  meetings”  and  that 
she  felt  that  she  “was  being  used.”  Another,  Dr.  Ian  Duncan,  told  the  Guelph  Mercury  that  he 
suspected  that  “upper  management  didn’t  really  think  that  animal  welfare  was  important.” 

PETA  would  end  its  campaign,  which  shareholders  can  learn  more  about  at  www.KentuckyFriedCruelty.com, 
if  KFC  adopted  the  March  11,  2005  recommendations  made  by  its  own  former  animal  welfare  advisors 
regarding  the  breeding,  gathering,  and  slaughtering  of  birds: 

•  Adopting  these  recommendations  would  harmonize  KFC’s  claims  with  its  actions  and  result  in 
numerous  economic  benefits,  including  improved  product  quality  and  shelf  life  and  reduced  carcass 
contamination. 

•  The  longer  that  KFC  refuses  to  eliminate  the  very  worst  abuses  that  its  birds  suffer,  the  more  that 
its  brand  image  will  become  associated  with  cruelty  to  animals.  More  than  13,000  protests  have 
occurred  at  KFC  restaurants  worldwide  since  January  2003,  and  notable  figures  like  Sir  Paul 
McCartney,  The  Rev.  A1  Sharpton,  Pamela  Anderson,  and  His  Holiness  the  Dalai  Lama  have 
publicly  encouraged  people  to  boycott  KFC. 

Accordingly,  shareholders  are  encouraged  to  vote  in  favor  of  this  proposal. 


33 


MANAGEMENT  STATEMENT  IN  OPPOSITION 
TO  SHAREHOLDER  PROPOSAL 

What  is  the  recommendation  of  the  Board  of  Directors? 

THE  BOARD  OF  DIRECTORS  RECOMMENDS  THAT  YOU  VOTE  AGAINST  THIS  PROPOSAL. 
What  is  the  Company’s  position  regarding  this  proposal? 

YUM,  as  a  major  purchaser  of  food  products,  has  the  opportunity  and  responsibility  to  influence  the 
way  animals  supplied  to  us  are  treated.  We  take  that  responsibility  very  seriously,  and  we  are  monitoring 
our  suppliers  on  an  ongoing  basis  to  determine  whether  our  suppliers  are  using  humane  procedures  for 
caring  for  and  handling  animals  they  supply  to  us.  As  a  consequence,  it  is  our  goal  to  deal  only  with 
suppliers  who  promise  to  maintain  our  standards  and  share  our  commitment  to  animal  welfare. 

We  have  a  track  record  of  leadership  in  animal  welfare.  For  example,  we  have  developed  the  YUM! 
Brands  Animal  Welfare  Guiding  Principles  and  have  expanded  the  KFC  Animal  Welfare  Advisory  Council 
to  provide  leadership  in  the  animal  welfare  area  and  in  our  commitment  to  animal  welfare. 

To  help  ensure  that  our  suppliers  meet  our  animal  welfare  objectives,  we  adopted  the  YUM!  Brands 
Animal  Welfare  Guiding  Principles  and  the  KFC  Poultry  Welfare  Guidelines  (collectively  the  “Guiding 
Principles”).  The  Guiding  Principles  express  our  goal  to  deal  with  suppliers  that  are  committed  to  the 
raising,  transportation  and  slaughter  of  poultry  in  a  manner  that  is  free  of  cruelty,  abuse  and  neglect. 

The  Guiding  Principles  are  applicable  to  all  YUM  poultry  suppliers  across  the  United  States  (these 
are  the  same  suppliers  that  supply  poultry  to  our  competitors).  We  are  also  looking  into  how  these 
principles  can  be  applied  internationally. 

As  stated  in  the  Guiding  Principles,  the  Company,  together  with  the  KFC  Animal  Welfare  Advisory 
Council,  works  with  its  suppliers  to  develop  systems  to  monitor  and  assess  the  effectiveness  of  suppliers’ 
poultry  handling  practices.  The  KFC  Animal  Welfare  Advisory  Council  consists  of  experts  in  poultry 
physiology,  poultry  genetics,  animal  behavior  and  veterinarians.  In  2008,  the  KFC  Animal  Welfare 
Advisory  Council  met  to  review  and  discuss  the  current  status  of  Controlled  Atmosphere  Stunning 
technology,  concluding  that,  while  the  method  does  offer  some  promise,  it  results  in  no  net  improvement  in 
animal  welfare.  The  KFC  Animal  Welfare  Advisory  Council  has  also  considered  the  development  of  an 
alternative  stun  technology  and  contributed  to  defining  the  necessary  steps  to  fully  vet  that  technology’s 
benefits  and  feasibility.  The  KFC  Animal  Welfare  Advisory  Committee  requested  a  series  of  nine  scientific 
reviews  of  broiler  welfare  audit  points  and  policy  by  the  experts  of  the  American  Association  of  Avian 
Pathologists  to  provide  additional  guidance.  The  results  of  those  reviews  have  been  incorporated  to 
enhance  and  update  our  audit  process.  The  Company  also  continues  to  work  with  the  Professional  Animal 
Auditor  Certification  Organization,  Inc.  (“PAACO”)  to  improve  certification  training  and  guidelines  and 
includes  a  Foundation  PAACO  certified  auditor  on  staff.  It  should  also  be  noted  that  we  operate  in  over 
100  countries  and  territories,  and  we  comply  with  all  national,  state  and  local  laws  and  regulations 
regarding  the  handling  of  poultry  in  those  countries. 

Why  does  the  Company  oppose  the  proposal? 

Our  commitment,  leadership  and  results  are  well  established  and  recognized  within  the  industry.  We 
work  hard  to  be  a  good  corporate  citizen  and  are  strong  advocates  of  good  animal  handling  practices.  Our 
policies  are  designed  to  help  to  achieve  humane  treatment  of  animals.  We  have  been,  and  will  continue  to 
be,  committed  to  upholding  and  abiding  by  the  principles  we  have  set.  We  monitor  our  suppliers  for 
compliance  and  have  expanded  our  monitoring  efforts  through  plant  and  farm  level  audits.  More 
information  regarding  our  animal  welfare  program  can  be  found  on  our  Web  site  at  www.yum.com/ 
responsibility/animalwelfare.asp  or  www.kfc.com/aboutlanimalwelfare.asp.  We  believe  that  the  proposed 
animal  welfare  report  and  review  is  unnecessary  and  would  not  result  in  any  additional  benefit  to  our 


shareholders  or  employees.  In  fact,  much  of  what  is  alleged  in  the  supporting  statement  to  the  shareholder 
proposal  is  either  inaccurate  or  significantly  outdated. 

A  similar  proposal  was  submitted  at  our  last  Annual  Meeting.  We  opposed  the  proposal  last  year,  and 
shareholders  overwhelmingly  rejected  the  proposal. 

FOR  THESE  REASONS,  WE  RECOMMEND  THAT  YOU  VOTE  AGAINST  THIS  PROPOSAL. 
What  vote  is  required  to  approve  this  proposal? 

Approval  of  this  proposal  requires  the  affirmative  vote  of  a  majority  of  the  shares  present  in  person  or 
represented  by  proxy  and  entitled  to  vote  at  the  Annual  Meeting. 


35 


STOCK  OWNERSHIP  INFORMATION 


Who  are  our  largest  shareholders? 

This  table  shows  ownership  information  for  each  YUM  shareholder  known  by  our  management  to  be 
the  owner  of  5%  or  more  of  YUM  common  stock.  This  information  is  presented  as  of  December  31,  2008, 
and  is  based  on  stock  ownership  reports  on  Schedule  13G  filed  by  each  of  these  shareholders  with  the  SEC 
and  provided  to  us. 


Number  of  Shares 

Name  and  Address  of  Beneficial  Owner  Beneficially  Owned 

Southeastern  Asset  Management,  Inc .  31,824,1660) 

6410  Poplar  Avenue,  Suite  900 
Memphis,  Tennessee  38119 

Marsico  Capital  Management,  LLC .  23,906,626(2) 

1200  17th  Street,  Suite  1600 
Denver,  Colorado  80202 

State  Street  Bank  and  Trust  Company .  23,245,601 (3) 

State  Street  Financial  Center 
One  Lincoln  Street 
Boston,  MA  02111 


(1)  The  filing  indicates  sole  voting  power  for  13,217,786  shares,  shared  voting  power  for  16,280,056 
shares,  no  voting  power  for  2,326,324  shares,  sole  dispositive  power  for  15,518,110  shares,  shared 
dispositive  power  for  16,280,056  shares  and  no  dispositive  power  for  26,000  shares. 

(2)  The  filing  indicates  sole  voting  power  for  19,924,162  shares,  shared  voting  power  for  no  shares,  sole 
dispositive  power  for  23,906,626  shares,  and  shared  dispositive  power  for  no  shares. 

(3)  The  filing  indicates  sole  voting  power  for  17,914,953  shares,  shared  voting  power  for  no  shares,  sole 
dispositive  power  for  no  shares  and  shared  dispositive  power  for  23,245,601  shares. 

How  much  YUM  common  stock  is  owned  by  our  directors,  director  nominees  and  executive  officers? 

This  table  shows  the  beneficial  ownership  of  YUM  common  stock  as  of  December  31,  2008  by 

•  each  of  our  nominees  for  election  as  directors, 

•  each  of  the  executive  officers  named  in  the  Summary  Compensation  Table  on  page  59,  and 

•  all  directors,  director  nominees  and  executive  officers  as  a  group. 

Unless  we  note  otherwise,  each  of  the  following  persons  and  their  family  members  has  sole  voting  and 
investment  power  with  respect  to  the  shares  of  common  stock  beneficially  owned  by  him  or  her.  None  of 
the  persons  in  this  table  hold  in  excess  of  one  percent  of  the  outstanding  YUM  common  stock,  except  for 
Mr.  Novak  who  beneficially  owns  approximately  1.4%  Directors,  director  nominees  and  executive  officers 
as  a  group  beneficially  own  approximately  3.0%.  Our  internal  stock  ownership  guidelines  call  for  the 
Chairman  to  own  336,000  shares  of  YUM  common  stock  or  stock  equivalents.  Guidelines  for  our  other 
named  executive  officers  call  for  them  to  own  50,000  shares  of  YUM  common  stock  or  stock  equivalents 
within  five  years  following  their  appointment  to  their  current  position.  Other  executive  officers  are 
required  to  own  24,000  shares  or  share  equivalents. 

The  table  shows  the  number  of  shares  of  common  stock  and  common  stock  equivalents  beneficially 
owned  as  of  December  31,  2008.  Included  are  shares  that  could  have  been  acquired  within  60  days  of 
December  31,  2008  through  the  exercise  of  stock  options,  stock  appreciation  rights  or  distributions  from 


Percent  of 
Class 

6.9% 


5.2% 


5.0% 


the  Company’s  deferred  compensation  plans,  together  with  additional  underlying  stock  units  as  described 
in  footnote  4  to  the  table.  Under  SEC  rules,  beneficial  ownership  includes  any  shares  as  to  which  the 
individual  has  either  sole  or  shared  voting  power  or  investment  power  and  also  any  shares  that  the 
individual  has  the  right  to  acquire  within  60  days  through  the  exercise  of  any  stock  option  or  other  right. 


Beneficial  Ownership 


Name 

Number 
of  Shares 
Beneficially 
Owned(l) 

Options/SAR’s 

Exercisable 

Within 

60  Days  (2) 

Deferral 
Plans 
Stock 
Units  (3) 

Total 

Beneficial 

Ownership 

Additional 

Underlying 

Stock 

Units(4) 

Total 

David  C.  Novak . 

82,372 

5,328,541 

1,171,302 

6,582,215 

966,933 

7,549,148 

David  W.  Dorman  .  .  . 

28,869 

10,797 

0 

39,666 

5,255 

44,921 

Massimo  Ferragamo  .  , 

38,028 

31,655 

39,409 

109,092 

20,700 

129,792 

J.  David  Grissom  .  .  .  , 

80,642(5) 

15,791 

2,055 

98,488 

0 

98,488 

Bonnie  G.  Hill . 

0 

15,497 

10,100 

25,597 

10,350 

35,947 

Robert  Holland,  Jr.  .  , 

51,725 

31,655 

12,168 

95,548 

6,088 

101,636 

Kenneth  G.  Langone  , 

650,000(6) 

321 

8,096 

658,417 

20,700 

679,117 

Jonathan  Linen . 

14,438 

10,797 

0 

25,235 

18,087 

43,322 

Thomas  C.  Nelson  .  .  , 

0 

1,446 

0 

1,446 

17,941 

19,387 

Thomas  M.  Ryan  .  .  .  . 

19,755 

19,735 

1,712 

41,202 

32,203 

73,405 

Jackie  Trujillo . 

24,357 

26,743 

4,145 

55,245 

42,694 

97,939 

Robert  D.  Walter  .  .  .  . 

51,632 

81 

0 

51,713 

5,393 

57,106 

Richard  T.  Carucci  .  .  , 

10,588(7) 

542,874 

6,600 

560,062 

106,201 

666,263 

Jing-Shyh  S.  Su . 

185,404 

1,210,942 

0 

1,396,346 

104,954 

1,501,300 

Graham  D.  Allan  .  .  .  , 

179,030(8) 

1,041,699 

77,513 

1,298,242 

77,671 

1,375,913 

Greg  Creed . 

4,874 

155,995 

0 

160,869 

66,172 

227,041 

All  Directors,  Director 

Nominees  and 

Executive  Officers  as 

i  a  Group 

(23  persons) . 

1,506,317 

10,817,757 

1,469,931 

13,794,005 

2,006,805 

15,800,810 

(1)  Shares  owned  outright.  These  amounts  include  the  following  shares  held  pursuant  to  YUM’s  401(k)  Plan  which 
will  be  subject  to  the  voting  direction  of  each  named  person  at  the  Annual  Meeting: 

•  Mr.  Novak,  29,918  shares 

•  all  directors,  director  nominees  and  executive  officers  as  a  group,  31,482  shares 

(2)  The  amounts  shown  include  beneficial  ownership  of  shares  that  may  be  acquired  within  60  days  pursuant  to  stock 
options  and  stock  appreciation  rights  awarded  under  our  employee  or  director  incentive  compensation  plans.  For 
stock  options,  we  report  shares  equal  to  the  number  of  options  exercisable  within  60  days.  For  SARs  we  report 
the  shares  that  would  be  delivered  upon  exercise  (which  is  equal  to  the  number  SARs  multiplied  by  the  difference 
between  the  fair  market  value  of  our  common  stock  at  year-end  and  the  exercise  price  divided  by  the  fair  market 
value  of  the  stock). 

(3)  These  amounts  reflect  units  denominated  as  common  stock  equivalents  held  in  deferred  compensation  accounts 
for  each  of  the  named  persons  under  our  Directors  Deferred  Compensation  Plan  or  our  Executive  Income 
Deferral  Program.  Amounts  payable  under  these  plans  to  the  named  executive  officers  and  other  executive 
officers  will  be  paid  in  shares  of  YUM  common  stock  at  termination  of  employment  or  within  60  days  if  the 
executive  so  elected  or  in  the  case  of  a  non-employee  director,  when  the  non-employee  director  leaves  the  Board. 

(4)  Amounts  include  units  denominated  as  common  stock  equivalents  held  in  deferred  compensation  accounts  which 
become  payable  in  shares  of  YUM  common  stock  at  a  time  (a)  other  than  at  termination  of  employment  or 
(b)  after  March  1,  2009.  For  Mr.  Novak,  amounts  also  include  restricted  stock  units  awarded  in  2008. 

(5)  This  amount  includes  26,000  shares  held  in  IRA  accounts. 

(6)  This  amount  includes  600,004  shares  held  in  a  margin  account. 

(7)  This  amount  includes  6,000  shares  held  in  a  trust. 


37 


(8)  179,026  of  Mr.  Allan’s  shares  are  pledged. 

Section  16(a)  Beneficial  Ownership  Reporting  Compliance 

Section  16(a)  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  as  amended,  requires  our  directors,  executive 
officers  and  persons  who  own  more  than  10%  of  the  outstanding  shares  of  YUM  common  stock  to  file  with 
the  SEC  reports  of  their  ownership  and  changes  in  their  ownership  of  YUM  common  stock.  Directors, 
executive  officers  and  greater-than-ten  percent  shareholders  are  also  required  to  furnish  YUM  with  copies 
of  all  ownership  reports  they  file  with  the  SEC.  To  our  knowledge,  based  solely  on  a  review  of  the  copies  of 
such  reports  furnished  to  YUM  and  representations  that  no  other  reports  were  required,  all  of  our 
directors  and  executive  officers  comphed  with  all  Section  16(a)  filing  requirements  during  fiscal  2008. 


38 


EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION 
Compensation  Discussion  and  Analysis 

YUM  delivered  strong  performance  in  a  challenging  consumer  environment  in  2008.  Our  2008  results 
again  exceeded  our  annual  target  of  at  least  10%  EPS  growth  and  represent  our  seventh  straight  year  of  at 
least  13%  growth.  In  2008  we  also  delivered  strong  results  on  the  three  key  measures  that  drive  long-term 
shareholder  value.  First,  we  delivered  worldwide  system  same-store-sales  growth  of  3%,  which  marks  our 
8th  straight  year  of  worldwide  system  same-store-sales  growth.  Second,  we  opened  a  record  1,495  units 
internationally,  remaining  the  leading  developer  of  new  units  outside  the  U.S.  Third,  we  reinforced  our 
position  as  an  industry  leader  in  return  on  invested  capital  by  increasing  our  return  on  invested  capital  to 
20%. 

As  in  past  years,  the  compensation  of  our  executives  reflects  the  Company’s  performance.  We 
designed  our  executive  compensation  program  to  attract,  reward  and  retain  the  talented  leaders  necessary 
to  enable  our  Company  to  succeed  in  the  highly  competitive  market  for  talent,  while  maximizing 
shareholder  returns.  We  believe  that  our  management  team,  which  has  been  attracted,  rewarded  and 
retained  through  our  compensation  program,  has  been  a  key  driver  in  YUM’s  strong  performance  over 
both  the  long  and  short  term. 

In  this  Compensation  Discussion  &  Analysis,  we  discuss  our  executive  compensation  program  and 
how  it  worked  in  2008.  Among  other  topics,  we  address  the  following: 

•  The  philosophy  underlying  our  executive  compensation  program  (page  40) 

•  The  objectives  of  our  executive  compensation  program  (page  40) 

•  An  overview  of  the  key  elements  of  our  executive  compensation  program  (page  40) 

•  The  process  the  compensation  committee  uses  to  set  and  review  executive  compensation  (page  41) 

•  The  alignment  of  our  executive  compensation  with  the  Company’s  business  and  financial 
performance  (page  41) 

•  The  allocation  between  fixed  and  variable  compensation  (page  41) 

•  The  role  of  our  independent  compensation  consultant  (page  41) 

•  The  role  of  comparative  compensation  data  and  how  we  select  the  companies  that  are  used  to 
generate  the  comparative  data  (page  42) 

•  Team  performance  measures,  which  are  used  in  the  calculation  of  the  annual  bonus  (page  45) 

•  Individual  performance  measures,  which  are  also  used  in  the  calculation  of  the  annual  bonus 
(page  47) 

•  Our  CEO’s  compensation  (page  49) 

•  Our  stock  ownership  guidelines  (page  54) 

Our  Named  Executive  Officers  (NEOs)  for  2008: 

•  David  C.  Novak,  Chairman,  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  President 

•  Richard  T.  Carucci,  Chief  Financial  Officer 

•  Jing-Shyh  S.  Su,  President — China  Division  and  Vice  Chairman 

•  Graham  D.  Allan,  President — Yum  Restaurants  International  Division 

•  Greg  Creed,  President  and  Chief  Concept  Officer — Taco  Bell  Division  U.S. 


39 


YUM’s  Compensation  Philosophy 

YUM’s  compensation  philosophy  is  reviewed  annually  by  the  Compensation  Committee  of  the  Board 
(“the  Committee”). 

Our  philosophy  is  to: 

•  reward  performance  and  avoid  entitlement 

•  pay  our  restaurant  general  managers  and  executives  like  owners 

•  design  pay  programs  at  all  levels  that  align  team  and  individual  performance,  customer  satisfaction 
and  shareholder  return 

•  emphasize  long-term  incentive  compensation 

•  require  executives  to  personally  invest  in  Company  stock 

Objectives  of  YUM’s  Compensation  Program 

The  objectives  of  our  executive  compensation  program  are  to: 

•  attract  and  retain  highly  qualified  employees  through  competitive  compensation  and  benefit 
programs 

•  reward  our  employees  for  personal  contributions  that  grow  the  business 

•  maximize  shareholder  returns 


Key  Elements  of  Compensation 

The  following  table  lists  the  key  elements  that  generally  comprise  our  2008  executive  compensation. 


Element 


Purpose 


Base  Salary .  Provide  compensation  for  performance  of  Cash 

primary  roles  and  responsibilities 

Performance-based,  annual 

incentive  compensation  ....  Provide  incentive  to  drive  company  performance  Cash 
with  payout  based  on  achievement  of  YUM’s 
short-term  goals  and  other  strategic  objectives 

Long-term  incentive 

compensation .  Motivate  our  executives  to  help  us  achieve  our  Stock  Appreciation 

long-range  performance  goals  that  will  enhance  Rights/Stock  Options 
our  value  and,  as  a  result,  enhance  the  price  of 
our  stock  and  our  shareholders’  returns  on  their 
investments 


Retirement  benefits .  Provide  tax-advantaged  means  to  accumulate 

retirement  benefits 


Defined  Benefit  Plan, 
Defined  Contribution 
Plan 


These  elements  have  been  in  place  since  the  Company’s  inception  in  1997.  We  determine  all  elements 
of  compensation  annually  at  the  same  time,  currently  in  January,  to  allow  us  to  take  into  consideration  all 
of  the  elements  when  decisions  are  made. 


How  Compensation  Decisions  Are  Made 

In  January  of  each  year,  the  Committee  reviews  the  performance  and  total  compensation  of  our  CEO 
and  Senior  Leadership  Team,  which  is  comprised  of  the  executive  officers  reporting  to  the  CEO.  The  total 
compensation  review  includes  base  salary,  target  bonus  award  opportunities,  and  target  annual  long-term 
incentive  award  values.  The  Committee  then  sets  each  executive’s  compensation  target  for  the  current 
year.  Typically,  this  involves  establishing  their  base  salary  and  annual  bonus  opportunities  and  granting 
long-term  incentive  awards.  The  Committee’s  decisions  impacting  our  CEO  are  reviewed  and  ratified  by 
the  Board. 

In  making  these  compensation  decisions,  the  Committee  relies  on  the  CEO’s  in-depth  review  of  the 
performance  of  the  Senior  Leadership  Team  as  well  as  competitive  market  information.  Compensation 
decisions  are  ultimately  made  by  the  Committee  using  its  judgment,  focusing  primarily  on  the  executive 
officer’s  performance  against  his  or  her  financial  and  strategic  objectives,  as  well  as  YUM’s  overall 
performance.  The  Committee  also  considers  a  variety  of  qualitative  factors,  including  the  business 
environment  in  which  the  results  were  achieved. 

Alignment  between  Compensation  and  Company  Performance 

As  noted  above,  a  key  objective  of  our  compensation  program  is  to  maximize  shareholder  returns. 
Our  incentive  programs  are  designed  to  reinforce  our  pay-for-performance  philosophy  by  aligning  the 
payouts  with  the  results  of  the  Company’s  business  and  financial  performance.  These  incentives,  which 
constitute  a  significant  portion  of  total  compensation,  consist  of  annual  incentive  compensation,  which  is 
short-term  in  nature,  and  stock  option/stock  appreciation  rights,  which  have  a  longer-term  focus.  These  pay 
elements  are  discussed  in  more  detail  below. 

There  is  no  pre-established  policy  or  target  for  the  allocation  between  either  cash  and  non-cash  or 
short-term  and  long-term  incentive  compensation.  The  Committee  reviews  information  provided  by 
management  in  the  case  of  Senior  Leadership  Team  members  other  than  our  CEO,  and  Hewitt  Associates 
in  the  case  of  our  CEO,  to  determine  the  appropriate  level  and  mix  of  incentive  compensation. 
Historically,  and  in  fiscal  2008,  the  Committee  granted  a  majority  of  total  compensation  to  our  executive 
officers  in  the  form  of  short-term  and  long-term  incentive  compensation. 

Allocation  between  Fixed  and  Variable  Compensation 

For  our  NEOs  (other  than  the  CEO),  in  2008  the  Committee  adopted  guidelines  for  total 
compensation  targeted  at  30%  fixed  and  70%  variable,  in  other  words,  at  risk.  Fixed  compensation  is 
comprised  of  base  salary,  while  variable  compensation  is  comprised  of  annual  incentives  and  long-term 
incentive  compensation. 

Role  of  Independent  Consultant 

The  Compensation  Committee’s  charter  states  that  the  Committee  may  retain  outside  compensation 
consultants,  lawyers  or  other  advisors.  Since  2005,  the  Compensation  Committee  has  retained  an 
independent  consultant,  Hewitt  Associates,  Inc.,  to  advise  it  on  certain  compensation  matters.  For  2008, 
the  Compensation  Committee  told  Hewitt  that: 

•  they  were  to  act  independently  of  management  and  at  the  direction  of  the  Compensation 
Committee, 

•  their  ongoing  engagement  would  be  determined  by  the  Compensation  Committee, 

•  they  were  to  inform  the  Compensation  Committee  of  relevant  trends  and  regulatory  developments, 

•  they  were  to  provide  compensation  comparisons  based  on  information  that  is  derived  from 
comparable  businesses  of  a  similar  size  to  us  with  respect  to  compensation  of  the  chief  executive 


41 


officer  at  other  companies  and  assist  the  Committee  in  its  determination  of  the  annual 
compensation  package  for  our  CEO, 

•  they  were  to  review  management’s  compensation  recommendations  for  the  Senior  Leadership  Team 
for  reasonableness,  and 

•  for  2009  pay  actions,  they  were  to  provide  compensation  comparisons  based  on  information  that  is 
derived  from  comparable  businesses  of  a  similar  size  to  us  with  respect  to  compensation  of  the 
leadership  teams  (including  the  other  NEOs)  at  other  companies  to  assist  management  in  its 
determination  of  the  annual  compensation  package  for  our  brand/division  leadership  teams. 

Hewitt  does  not  provide  any  other  services  to  us,  although,  we  do  purchase  Hewitt  survey  data  for 
benchmarking  executive  and  manager  compensation,  as  described  below. 

Role  of  Comparative  Compensation  Data 

One  of  the  factors  used  by  our  Committee  in  setting  executive  compensation  is  an  evaluation  of  how 
our  compensation  levels  compare  to  compensation  levels  for  similarly  situated  executives  at  companies 
considered  to  be  our  peers.  To  conduct  these  comparisons,  on-line  compensation  data  is  obtained  from  two 
consulting  firms,  Towers  Perrin  and  Hewitt  Associates.  This  data  is  used  as  a  frame  of  reference  for 
establishing  compensation  targets  for  base  salary,  annual  incentives  and  long-term  incentives  for  the  Senior 
Leadership  Team  below  our  CEO.  This  method  is  often  referred  to  as  “benchmarking.” 

On-line  benchmarking  data  from  the  consulting  firms’  surveys  (“survey  data”)  reflect  compensation 
practices  of  general  industry  companies  with  annual  revenues  which  are  similar  to  ours  for  our  executives 
with  Company-wide  responsibilities  and  general  industry  companies  with  annual  revenues  similar  in  size  to 
the  relevant  brand  or  division,  for  our  executives  with  single  brand  or  division  responsibilities.  The 
Committee  believes  this  approach  appropriately  reflects  the  labor  market  for  our  executives. 

The  Committee  uses  a  benchmark  as  a  point  of  reference  for  measurement.  Benchmarks,  however, 
are  not  the  determinative  factor  for  our  executives’  compensation,  and  they  do  not  supplant  the  analyses  of 
the  individual  performance  of  the  executive  officers.  Because  the  comparative  compensation  information  is 
one  of  several  factors  used  in  the  setting  of  executive  compensation,  the  Committee  has  discretion  in 
determining  the  nature  and  extent  of  its  use.  Further,  given  the  limitations  associated  with  comparative  pay 
information  for  setting  individual  executive  compensation,  the  Committee  may  elect  not  to  use  the 
comparative  compensation  information  at  all  in  the  course  of  making  specific  compensation  decisions. 

For  our  named  executive  officers,  other  than  our  CEO,  the  Committee  has  set  target  percentiles  for 
base  salary,  performance-based  annual  incentives  and  long-term  incentives  as  discussed  at  page  43.  The 
Committee  does  not  set  target  percentiles  with  respect  to  target  total  compensation  for  our  named 
executive  officers  other  than  our  CEO  (see  page  50  for  a  discussion  of  Mr.  Novak’s  target  total 
compensation).  With  the  exception  of  our  CEO’s  compensation,  we  do  not  measure  the  percentile  ranking 
of  compensation  actually  earned  since  these  amounts  are  designed,  consistent  with  our 
pay-for-performance  approach,  to  be  a  function  of  results. 

Our  objective  is  to  provide  pay  opportunities  to  our  named  executive  officers  consistent  with  our  pay 
philosophy  and,  correspondingly,  with  the  market  compensation  for  comparable  positions  at  the 
benchmark  companies.  This  is  an  important  distinction  from  actual  pay.  Accordingly,  to  the  extent  the 
amount  of  any  actual  or  earned,  element  of  compensation,  in  the  case  of  our  named  executive  officers  other 
than  our  CEO,  and  the  amount  of  the  actual  or  earned  total  compensation,  in  the  case  of  our  CEO,  varies 
from  its  targeted  compensation  percentile,  this  will  be  a  function  of  performance  of  the  individual  and/or 
the  Company. 


Comparative  Compensation  Data — Messrs.  Carucci,  Su,  Allan  and  Creed 

Revenue  size  often  correlates  to  some  degree  with  the  market  value  of  compensation  for  senior 
executive  positions.  For  companies  with  significant  franchise  operations  measuring  size  is  more  complex. 
This  is  because  there  are  added  complexities  and  responsibilities  for  managing  the  relationships, 
arrangements,  and  overall  scope  of  the  enterprise  that  franchising  introduces,  in  particular,  managing 
product  introductions,  marketing,  processes  to  drive  sales  growth  and  overall  operations  improvements 
across  the  entire  franchise  system.  Accordingly,  the  Compensation  Committee  decided,  based  on  input 
from  Hewitt,  to  add  25%  of  franchisee  and  licensee  sales  to  the  Company’s  2007  Company  sales  of 
$9.1  billion  for  purposes  of  determining  the  revenue  scope  for  deriving  the  market  value  of  various 
components  of  compensation.  This  means  that  the  Company,  when  considering  franchisee  sales,  is  viewed 
as  having  revenues  of  approximately  $15.2  billion.  Specifically,  this  amount  was  determined  by  adding  2007 
Company  sales  of  $9.1  billion  and  25%  of  franchisee  and  licensee  sales  (from  which  the  Company  derives 
revenues  in  the  form  of  royalties)  of  approximately  $24.4  billion.  In  the  case  of  Mr.  Su,  the  Committee 
determined,  that  due  to  the  strategic  importance  of  his  individual  contribution  and  the  China  Division’s 
contribution  to  the  Company,  it  was  appropriate  to  select  a  Hewitt  comparator  group  with  significantly 
higher  revenue. 

The  survey  data  for  each  NEO’s  job  was  derived  from  Hewitt  survey  data  and  Towers  Perrin  survey 
data  and  is  summarized  for  each  of  our  NEOs  below: 


Hewitt  Towers  Perrin 

Number  of  Median  Number  of  Median 

Annual  Revenue  Range  companies  Revenues  Annual  Revenue  Range  companies  Revenues 

Carucci 
Su.  .  . 

Allan  . 

Creed 


$10-25  billion  Corporate 
$5-10  billion  Group 
$5-10  billion  Group 
$2.5-5  billion  Group 


$13.2  billion  $10-20  billion  Corporate 
$  7  billion  >$2  billion  Group 

$  7  billion  >$2  billion  Group 

$  3.5  billion  >$2  billion  Group 


$  14  billion 
$4.8  billion 
$4.8  billion 
$4.8  billion 


Companies  included  in  the  Survey  Data  for  Messrs.  Carucci,  Su,  Allan  and  Creed 

In  accordance  with  SEC  rules,  a  list  of  the  companies  included  in  the  survey  data  is  attached  at 
Appendices  1  through  4.  Consistent  with  prior  years,  the  Committee  did  not  consider  compensation  data 
from  any  specific  company  in  the  survey  data. 

When  providing  survey  data  for  the  job  surveyed,  the  consulting  firms  draw  data  from  some,  but  not 
all,  of  the  companies  in  the  list.  This  is  because  some  companies  in  the  group  may  not  have  a  matching  or 
similar  job  to  the  job  being  surveyed.  The  consulting  firm  data  does  not  disclose  the  name  of  the 
companies  that  comprise  the  smaller  group  of  companies  for  purposes  of  each  job  surveyed.  Therefore,  we 
disclose  in  Appendices  1  and  2  the  names  of  all  of  the  companies  in  the  survey  group  and  have  disclosed  in 
the  table  above  the  number  of  companies  used  and  median  revenues  of  those  companies  in  the  survey  data 
for  the  job  surveyed  for  each  executive. 


Targeting  Compensation 

For  the  NEOs,  other  than  Mr.  Novak,  we  target  the  elements  of  our  compensation  program  as 
follows: 

•  Base  salary — because  NEOs  are  expected  to  make  significant  contributions  in  current  and  future 
positions  and  would  be  considered  a  critical  loss  if  they  left  the  Company,  we  target  the 
75th  percentile  for  base  salary 

•  Performance-based  annual  incentive  compensation — 75th  percentile  to  emphasize  superior  pay  for 
superior  performance 

•  Long-term  incentives — 50th  percentile 


43 


For  the  CEO,  the  Committee  targets  75th  percentile  salary  and  target  total  cash  compensation  as  well 
as  75th  percentile  total  compensation.  These  benchmark  values  are  based  on  target  annual  incentives  and 
the  grant  date  fair  value  (i.e.,  Black-Scholes)  of  long-term  incentives. 

2008  Executive  Compensation  Decisions 
Base  Salary 

Base  salary  is  designed  to  compensate  our  executive  officers  for  their  primary  roles  and 
responsibilities  and  to  provide  a  stable  level  of  annual  compensation.  Market  data  from  the  survey  group 
was  considered  in  determining  base  salary  targets  for  named  executive  officers  based  on  each  executive 
officer’s  position  and  responsibility.  An  executive  officer’s  actual  salary  relative  to  this  competitive  salary 
range  varies  based  on  the  level  of  his  or  her  responsibility,  experience,  individual  performance  and  future 
potential.  Specific  salary  increases  take  into  account  these  factors  and  the  current  market  for  management 
talent.  Our  Compensation  Committee  reviews  each  executive  officer’s  salary  and  performance  annually. 
The  Committee  does  not  measure  or  review  the  percentile  ranking  of  actual  salary  decisions. 

Messrs.  Su’s  and  Allan’s  2008  salary  increase  placed  their  base  salaries  significantly  above  the 
75th  percentile.  The  Committee  chose  to  pay  these  two  executives  at  this  level  based  on  the  Committee’s 
subjective  assessment  of  the  current  and  sustained,  long-term  results  they  have  produced  for  the  Company 
and  the  importance  of  their  leadership  in  running  the  China  and  International  divisions,  respectively. 
Mr.  Creed’s  salary  was  set  at  the  75th  percentile  and  Mr.  Carucci’s  salary  was  set  near  the  75th  percentile  for 
2008. 

Performance-Based  Annual  Incentive  Compensation 

Our  performance-based  annual  incentive  compensation  program  (“YUM  Leaders’  Bonus  Program”) 
is  a  cash-based,  pay-for-performance  plan  that  applies  to  over  1,200  above  restaurant  leaders  in  the 
Company.  The  principal  purpose  of  our  annual  incentive  compensation  is  to  encourage  and  reward  strong 
individual  and  team  performance  that  drives  shareholder  value. 

Annual  incentive  payments  are  based  on  the  achievement  of  certain  Company-wide  or  business  unit 
financial  objectives,  other  corporate  objectives,  as  well  as  the  achievement  of  individual  performance 
objectives.  These  objectives  are  established,  reviewed  and  approved  by  the  Compensation  Committee 
during  the  compensation  planning  period  to  ensure  that  the  goals  are  in  concert  with  the  unique  strategic 
issues  facing  the  Company.  The  Compensation  Committee  reviews  the  objectives  with  the  Board  of 
Directors. 

In  2008,  incentive  opportunities  were  designed  to  reward  superior  performance  by  providing  for 
payments  above  target  for  superior  performance,  with  no  payment  unless  a  threshold  percentage  of  the 
goal  was  achieved.  Each  executive  officer’s  annual  incentive  compensation  depends  on  the  degree  to  which 
the  company  achieves  its  business  and  financial  goals  and  the  degree  to  which  each  executive  officer  meets 
his  or  her  individual  goals.  We  believe  this  aligns  our  executive  officers’  interests  with  the  Company’s 
interests,  and  motivates  our  executive  officers  to  meet  their  goals  and  ensure  that  the  Company  meets  its 
financial,  operational  and  strategic  objectives. 

The  formula  for  our  annual  incentive  compensation  is  as  follows: 

Base  Salary  x  Annual  Target  Bonus  X  Team  X  Individual  =  Bonus  Payout 

Percentage  Performance  Factor  Performance  Factor  Award 

The  minimum  team  performance  factor  is  0%  and  the  maximum  is  200%.  The  minimum  individual 
performance  factor  is  0%  and  the  maximum  is  150%.  The  combined  impact  of  the  team  performance 
factor  and  individual  performance  factor  produces  a  potential  range  for  total  annual  bonus  of  0  -  300%  of 
the  target  award.  Applying  these  ranges  under  the  YUM!  Leaders’  Bonus  Program  to  the  named  executive 


officer’s  2008  salaries  determined  the  threshold,  target  and  maximum  awards  potential  under  the  program 
for  2008,  which  are  reported  in  dollars  in  the  Grants  of  Plan-Based  Awards  table  on  page  63. 

A  detailed  description  of  how  team  and  individual  performance  factors  are  determined  and  measured 
can  be  found  below  under  the  heading  “Performance  Factors.” 

Annual  Target  Bonus  Percentage.  The  philosophy  for  our  annual  incentive  compensation  is  to  target 
the  Annual  Target  Bonus  Percentage  at  the  75th  percentile  of  the  companies  in  the  survey  data.  In  addition 
to  the  survey  data,  these  targets  were  derived  by  the  Compensation  Committee’s  consideration  of  an 
executive’s  performance,  tenure  in  position,  the  compensation  of  the  executive’s  peers  within  the  Company 
and  the  executives’  expected  contribution  to  the  Company.  The  “Annual  Target  Bonus  Percentage”  for 
each  named  executive  officer  for  2008  was: 

David  C.  Novak  Richard  T.  Carucci  Jing-Shyh  S.  Su  Graham  D.  Allan  Greg  Creed 

150%  90%  115%  115%  85% 

The  Committee  increased  the  2008  target  bonus  percentage  for  Messrs.  Carucci  and  Creed  by 
5  percentage  points  and  Messrs.  Su  and  Allan  by  25  percentage  points. 

The  Committee  noted  the  2008  target  bonus  opportunities,  when  compared  to  the  survey  data,  were 
significantly  above  the  75th  percentile  for  Messrs.  Su  and  Allan  and  below  the  75th  percentile  for 
Messrs.  Creed  and  Carucci.  The  Committee  did  not  consider  the  actual  percentile  above  or  below  the 
75th  percentile  when  making  its  final  target  bonus  percentages  decision.  Rather,  it  considered  the  strong 
performance  of  Messrs.  Su  and  Allan  in  continuing  to  lead  their  respective  divisions  of  YUM  and 
determined  that  an  increase  in  the  target  bonus  percentage  was  appropriate.  In  particular,  the  Committee 
determined  that  significant  increases  in  target  bonus  percentage  for  Messrs.  Su  and  Allan  were  warranted 
given  their  current  and  expected  performance  and  strategic  position  of  their  divisions  in  the  growth  of  the 
company.  Mr.  Carucci’s  and  Mr.  Creed’s  target  bonus  increases  recognized  their  strong  performance  and 
kept  pace  with  increases  in  comparative  data. 

Performance  Factors.  To  determine  the  performance  factors  for  each  NEO,  the  Committee  reviews 
actual  performance  against  pre-established  consolidated  or  relevant  operating  Company  measures  and 
targets  (“Team  Performance  Factor”)  and  individual  performance  measures  and  targets  (“Individual 
Performance  Factor”). 

Team  Performance  Factor.  For  2008,  the  Compensation  Committee  determined  each  executive’s 
Team  Performance  Measure  and  Team  Performance  Target,  based  on  recommendations  from 
management.  Consistent  with  prior  years,  the  Compensation  Committee  established  the  business  team 
performance  measures,  targets  and  relative  weights  and  reviewed  actual  performance  against  these 
measures  and  targets  as  set  forth  in  the  chart  below  for  the  NEOs.  The  targets  were  developed  through  the 
Company’s  annual  financial  planning  process,  in  which  we  assessed  historical  performance,  the  future 
operating  environment,  and  profit  growth  initiatives  and  built  projections  of  anticipated  results.  These 
projections  include  profit  growth  to  achieve  our  earnings  per  share  growth  target  of  10%.  Brand  and 
division  targets  may  be  adjusted  during  the  year  when  doing  so  is  consistent  with  the  objectives  and  intent 
at  the  time  the  targets  were  originally  set.  In  2008,  brand  and  division  operating  profit  growth  targets  were 
adjusted  to  reflect  certain  YUM  approved  investments  and  restaurant  divestitures. 

We  believe  these  measures  and  targets  are  key  factors  to  drive  individual  and  team  performance, 
which  will  result  in  increased  shareholder  value  over  the  long  term.  These  measures  are  designed  to  align 
employee  goals  with  the  Company’s  individual  brands’  and  divisions’  current  year  objectives  to  grow 
earnings  and  sales,  develop  new  restaurants  and  increase  customer  satisfaction.  The  measures  also  serve  as 
effective  motivation  because  they  are  easy  to  track  and  clearly  understood  by  employees.  When  setting 
targets  for  each  specific  Team  Performance  Measure,  the  Company  takes  into  account  overall  business 
goals  and  structures  the  target  to  motivate  achievement  of  desired  performance  consistent  with  broader 


45 


shareholder  commitments  such  as  earnings  per  share  growth,  ROIC  and  cash  flow.  The  targets  are  the 
same  that  we  disclose  from  time  to  time  to  our  investors  and  may  be  slightly  above  or  below  disclosed 
guidance  when  determined  by  our  Compensation  Committee  to  be  appropriate.  A  leverage  formula  for 
each  Team  Performance  Measure  magnifies  the  potential  impact  that  performance  above  or  below  the 
target  will  have  on  the  calculation  of  annual  incentive  compensation.  This  leverage  increases  the  financial 
incentive  for  employees  to  exceed  their  targets  and  reduces  payouts  when  the  Team  Performance  Measure 
is  not  reached. 

Division  operating  profit  growth  is  based  on  actual  year  over  year  growth  and  is  adjusted  to  exclude 
the  impact  of  any  foreign  currency  translation.  For  Messrs.  Novak  and  Carucci  the  operating  profit  growth 
goal  was  the  weighted  average  profit  growth  of  our  U.S.  Brands,  the  China  Division  and  the  International 
Division.  (For  2008,  the  Committee,  in  Mr.  Novak’s  and  Carucci’s  case,  began  using  weighted  average  of 
operating  profit  Team  Performance  Measure  in  place  of  earnings  per  share  because  it  provided  a  better 
measure  of  executive  performance  in  light  of  our  strategy  to  refranchise  restaurants.)  In  the  case  of  system 
sales  growth,  we  include  the  results  of  all  restaurants,  including  Company-owned,  franchised  and  licensed 
restaurants  and  it  is  based  on  year  over  year  growth  and  adjusted  to  exclude  the  impact  of  any  foreign 
currency  translation.  Development  is  measured  based  on  system  net  builds  for  Messrs.  Novak  and  Carucci, 
system  gross  new  builds  for  the  China  Division,  system  net  new  builds  for  the  International  Division  and 
the  impact  of  development  on  system  sales  for  the  Taco  Bell  U.S.  brand.  In  the  case  of  customer 
satisfaction,  the  performance  target  represents  the  percentage  of  total  system  stores  that  must  achieve  a 
100%  customer  satisfaction  score.  For  Messrs.  Novak  and  Carucci,  the  customer  satisfaction  goal  was  the 
weighted  average  score  of  our  U.S.  Brands,  the  China  Division  and  the  International  Division. 

B  During  2008,  the  Committee  undertook  an  in-depth  review  of  the  process  for  setting  the  targets  and 

leverage  formula  for  each  specific  Team  Performance  Measure.  As  a  result  of  this  review,  the  Committee 
determined  that  the  process  for  setting  targets  and  the  leverage  formula  was  rigorous  and  consistent  with 
the  Company’s  process  for  building  projections  of  anticipated  results  and,  therefore,  did  not  require 
modification.  The  Committee  and  the  Company  did  adjust,  for  future  years,  the  leverage  formula  for 
below  target  performance  resulting  in  higher  threshold  performance  for  profit,  sales  and  development. 
This  change  reinforces  our  pay  for  performance  philosophy  and  provides  an  appropriate  level  of  downside 
risk. 

The  team  performance  targets,  actual  team  performance,  team  performance  weights  and  team 
performance  factor  for  each  measure  are  set  forth  below  for  the  NEOs. 

2008  Annual  Incentive  Compensation  Team  Performance  (TP)  Factor  Calculation 


TP  Factor 

TP  based  After 

on  leverage  Applying 

NEO  TP  Measures  TP  Target  TP  Actual  formula  TP  Weight  Weights 


Novak  and  Carucci  Worldwide  Profit  Growth  (Before  Tax) 

Weighted  Average  of  Divisions  Performance 

90 

50% 

45 

System  Sales  Growth 

5.2%  6.6% 

197 

20% 

39 

System  Net  New  Restaurant  Builds 

680  884 

200 

20% 

40 

System  Customer  Satisfaction 

Weighted  Average  of  Divisions  Performance 

139 

10% 

14 

Total  Weighted  TP  Factor 

138 

46 


i/. global-reports. c 


Su 


Division  Operating  Profit  Growth 
System  Sales  Growth 
System  Gross  New  Builds 
System  Customer  Satisfaction 

Total  Weighted  TP  Factor 
75%  Division/25%  Yum  TP  Factor 
Chairman’s  Incentive — Additional 
Points 

Final  TP  Factor 

Chairman’s  Incentive  of  10  additional  percentage  bonus  points  was  awarded 
for  their  leadership  of  the  system  in  achieving  breakthrough  results 


60  50%  30 

134  20%  27 

200  20%  40 

150  10%  15 

112 

119 

10 

129 

the  China  Division 


Allan  Division  Operating  Profit  Growth  8.0% 

System  Sales  Growth  5.0% 

System  Net  Builds  430 

System  Customer  Satisfaction  38.0% 

Total  Weighted  TP  Factor 
75%  Division/25%  Yum  TP  Factor 


8.0%  100 

8.2%  200 

573  200 

43.2%  200 


50%  50 

20%  40 

20%  40 

10%  20 

150 

147 


Creed  Brand  Operating  Profit  Growth  5.0% 

System  Same  Store  Sales  Growth  2.0% 

Development  Contribution  to  System 
Sales  2.6% 

System  Customer  Satisfaction  85.0% 


7.6%  126  50%  63 

8.5%  200  20%  40 


83.5%  82 


Total  Weighted  TP  Factor 
75%  Division/25%  Yum  TP  Factor 


118 

123 


Individual  Performance  Factor.  Each  NEOs  Individual  Performance  Factor  is  determined  by  the 
Committee  based  upon  their  subjective  determination  of  the  NEOs  individual  performance  for  the  year, 
including  consideration  of  specific  objective  individual  performance  goals  set  at  the  beginning  of  the  year. 
As  described  above,  our  Chairman,  CEO  and  President,  Mr.  Novak,  provides  the  Compensation 
Committee  with  his  evaluation  of  each  of  the  other  named  executive  officers’  performance  and 
recommends  an  Individual  Performance  Factor  to  the  Committee. 

For  Mr.  Carucci,  the  Compensation  Committee  determined  that  his  overall  individual  performance 
for  2008  was  above  target  based  upon  strong  earnings  per  share  growth,  system  sales  growth  and  net  new 
restaurants.  In  addition,  the  Committee  considered  that,  while  the  U.S.  business  missed  its  profit  targets, 
under  Mr.  Carucci’s  leadership  the  Company  refranchised  700  units  in  a  difficult  macro  environment,  the 
stock  outperformed  the  S&P  500  for  2008  and  the  Company  restructured  its  U  .S.  above  store  workforce. 
Based  on  this  performance,  the  Committee  approved  a  135  Individual  Performance  Factor  for  Mr.  Carucci. 

For  Mr.  Su,  the  Compensation  Committee  determined  that  his  overall  individual  performance  for 
2008  was  significantly  above  target  based  upon  the  China  Division  significantly  surpassing  its  system  sales 
growth  and  development  plans,  as  well  as  Mr.  Su’s  strong  leadership  in  managing  the  China  business 
through  commodity  inflation  and  the  impact  of  the  slowing  macro  economic  environment,  managing 
vendor  relationships  to  increase  poultry  capacity  to  meet  increased  demand  and  the  introduction  of 
successful  new  products.  Based  on  this  performance,  the  Committee  approved  a  140  Individual 
Performance  Factor  for  Mr.  Su. 

For  Mr.  Allan,  the  Compensation  Committee  determined  that  his  overall  individual  performance  for 
2008  was  significantly  above  target  based  upon  the  International  Division  meeting  profit  plan,  and 
exceeding  system  sales  growth,  development  targets  and  customer  service  measures,  as  well  as  Mr.  Allan’s 
strong  leadership  in  developing  marketing  calendars,  tests  of  new  products  in  key  markets  and  work 


47 


completed  on  launch  of  Taco  Bell  internationally.  Based  on  this  performance,  the  committee  approved  a 
150  Individual  Performance  Factor  for  Mr.  Allan. 

For  Mr.  Creed,  the  Compensation  Committee  determined  that  his  overall  individual  performance  for 
2008  was  significantly  above  target  based  upon  Taco  Bell  US  exceeding  its  profit  plan  and  system  sales 
growth  measure,  as  well  as  Mr.  Creed’s  strong  leadership  in  implementing  the  Why  Pay  More  strategy, 
improved  transaction  growth,  implementation  of  new  products  and  pipeline  development.  Based  on  this 
performance,  the  Committee  approved  a  140  Individual  Performance  Factor  for  Mr.  Creed. 

Application  of  Annual  Incentive  Program  Formula  to  Named  Executive  Officers 

Based  on  the  Committee’s  determinations  as  described  above,  the  following  table  sets  forth  the 
annual  incentive  formula  and  the  calculation  of  annual  incentive  for  each  NEO. 


Formula: 

Base  Salary 

x 

Annual  Bonus 
Target  % 

x 

Team  Performance 
Factor 

x 

Individual 

Performance 

Factor 

=  Bonus  Award 

Minimum — 0% 

Minimum — 0% 

Minimum — 0% 

Maximum — 200% 

Maximum — 150% 

Maximum — 300% 

Novak 

$1,400,000 

X 

150% 

x 

138% 

X 

140% 

=  $4,057,200 

Carucci 

$675,000 

X 

90% 

X 

138% 

X 

135% 

=  $1,131,773 

Allan 

$775,000 

X 

115% 

X 

147% 

X 

150% 

=  $1,965,206 

Su 

$775,000 

X 

115% 

X 

129% 

X 

140% 

=  $1,609,598 

Creed 

$620,000 

X 

85% 

X 

123% 

X 

140% 

=  $907,494 

Note:  Messrs.  Allan,  Su  and  Creed’s  team  performance  factor  is  based  on  75%  of  their  Division  team 
performance  factor  and  25%  of  the  consolidated  team  performance  factor. 


Long-term  Incentive  Compensation 

The  principal  purpose  of  our  long-term  incentive  compensation  program  (“LTI  Plan”)  is  to  motivate 
our  executives  to  help  us  achieve  our  long-range  performance  goals  that  will  enhance  our  value  and,  as  a 
result,  enhance  the  price  of  our  stock  and  our  shareholders’  returns  on  their  investments.  The  long-term 
incentive  philosophy  is  to  target  the  50th  percentile  of  the  companies  in  the  survey  data  for  executives 
(other  than  our  CEO)  who  are  achieving  their  ownership  guidelines. 

Under  our  long-term  incentive  (“LTI”)  Plan,  our  executive  officers  are  awarded  long-term  incentives 
in  the  form  of  non-qualified  stock  options  or  stock  settled  stock  appreciation  rights  (“SARs”).  The  type  of 
award  granted  is  based  upon  the  executives’  local  tax  jurisdiction.  Each  year  the  Committee  reviews  the 
mix  of  long-term  incentives  to  determine  if  it  is  appropriate  to  continue  using  100%  stock  options  and 
SARs  as  the  long-term  incentive  vehicle.  The  Committee  has  chosen  to  use  stock  options  and  SARs 
because  they  emphasize  YUM’s  focus  on  long-term  growth,  they  reward  employees  only  if  the  stock  price 
goes  up  and  they  align  Restaurant  General  Managers  and  senior  management  on  the  same  equity  incentive 
program.  Long-term  incentive  award  ranges  are  established  based  upon  the  survey  data.  In  general,  our 
stock  options  and  SARs  have  ten-year  terms  and  vest  25%  per  year  over  four  years. 

For  each  named  executive  officer  other  than  Mr.  Novak,  the  2008  Stock  Option/SARs  grant  was 
awarded  based  on  the  individual’s  achievement  of  his  stock  ownership  guidelines  and  the  Compensation 
Committee’s  subjective  assessment  of  each  executive’s  performance  and  consideration  of  the  survey  data. 
The  Committee  based  its  assessment  on  factors  considered  with  respect  to  the  evaluation  of 
Messrs.  Carucci’s,  Su’s,  Allan’s,  and  Creed’s  individual  and  team  performance  as  noted  at  pages  45-48  as 
well  as  their  expected  contributions  in  future  years.  The  Committee  did  not  assign  a  weight  to  any 
particular  item. 


Based  on  this  assessment  for  2008,  Messrs.  Carucci  and  Creed  received  a  stock  appreciation  rights 
grant  and  Mr.  Su  received  a  stock  option  grant  at  the  50th  percentile  of  the  survey  data.  Mr.  Allan  received 
a  stock  appreciation  rights  grant  above  the  50th  percentile  of  the  survey  data.  Each  SAR  and  Stock  Option 
was  granted  at  the  closing  market  price  of  the  underlying  YUM  common  stock  on  the  date  of  grant.  As 
with  other  elements  of  compensation,  the  Committee  does  not  measure  or  review  the  percentile  ranking  of 
actual  long-term  incentive  compensation. 

Mr.  Novak’s  long-term  incentive  compensation  is  discussed  on  page  50. 

From  time  to  time  and  in  addition  to  the  regular  annual  grant,  Chairman’s  Award  stock  option  or 
SAR  grants  are  made  to  selected  employees  in  recognition  of  superlative  performance  and  extraordinary 
impact  on  business  results.  In  the  case  of  employees  below  the  Senior  Leadership  Team  Level,  these 
awards  are  made  at  the  discretion  of  the  CEO.  Awards  to  executives  on  the  Senior  Leadership  Team  must 
be  approved  by  the  Compensation  Committee.  These  SARs  or  stock  options  may  vest  in  their  entirety  after 
four  or  five  years  or  25%  per  year  over  four  years.  In  2008,  in  addition  to  their  regular  grants,  Mr.  Su 
received  a  Chairman’s  Award  grant  of  stock  options  with  a  fair  value  of  $2.9  million  and  Mr.  Carucci 
received  a  Chairman’s  Award  grant  of  stock  appreciation  rights  with  a  fair  value  of  $1.5  million.  Mr.  Su’s 
award  was  based  on  the  Committee’s  subjective  assessment  of  the  continued  strong  performance  of  the 
China  Division  in  2007  and  his  position  as  a  senior  leader  in  the  Company.  Mr.  Carucci’s  award  was  based 
on  the  consistently  superior  financial  performance  of  the  Company  in  the  areas  of  total  shareholder  return, 
return  on  net  assets,  EPS  growth  and  operating  income  growth  under  his  leadership. 


How  we  Compensate  our  Chief  Executive  Officer 
Comparative  Compensation  Data — Mr.  Novak 

In  reviewing  and  setting  2008  compensation  for  Mr.  Novak,  the  Committee  used  data  from  Hewitt 
Associates  for  a  select  group  of  nondurable  consumer  products  companies  as  this  group  represented  the 
best  market  reference  point,  noting  that  the  median  annual  revenues  for  the  group  was  $15.2  billion 
compared  to  the  Company  revenues  of  $15.2  billion  (as  adjusted  to  consider  franchisee  sales  as  described 
on  page  43).  Hewitt  Associates  provided  a  comprehensive  review  for  the  Compensation  Committee  using 
data  from  this  peer  group.  The  companies  comprising  this  nondurable  consumer  products  group  are: 


Albertsons  Inc. 

Anheuser-Busch  Companies,  Inc. 
AutoNation,  Inc. 
AutoZone,  Inc. 

Avon  Products,  Inc. 
Blockbuster  Inc. 

CDW  Corporation 
The  Coca-Cola  Company 
Colgate-Palmolive  Company 
CVS  Corporation 


Darden  Restaurants,  Inc. 
Dollar  General  Corporation 
Federated  Department 
The  Gap,  Inc. 
General  Mills,  Inc. 

J.C.  Penney  Company,  Inc. 

Kellogg  Company 
Kimberly-Clark  Corporation 
Kohl’s  Corporation 
Limited  Brands 


Lowe’s  Companies,  Inc. 
Marriott  International,  Inc. 
Mars,  Incorporated 
McDonald’s  Corporation 
Meijer,  Inc. 

Office  Depot 
OfficeMax  Incorporated 
PepsiCo,  Inc. 
Staples,  Inc. 
Walgreen  Co. 


Mr.  Novak’s  Compensation 

Each  year,  our  Board,  under  the  leadership  of  the  Compensation  Committee  Chairperson,  conducts 
an  evaluation  of  the  performance  of  our  CEO,  David  Novak.  This  evaluation  includes  a  review  of  his: 

•  leadership  pertaining  to  business  execution  and  the  achievement  of  business  results 

•  leadership  in  the  development  and  implementation  of  Company  strategies 

•  development  of  diversity  and  management  talent 


49 


In  setting  compensation  for  2008,  the  Committee  considered  the  historical  performance  of  the 
Company  since  its  inception,  noting  that  Mr.  Novak  had  been  President  for  each  of  those  years,  CEO  since 
2000  and  Chairman  since  2001.  The  Committee  noted  that  for  the  prior  nine,  five  and  one  year  periods, 
the  Company  had  on  average  performed  very  strongly  versus  the  nondurable  consumer  products  peer 
group  in  terms  of  total  shareholder  return  (top  quartile),  return  on  net  assets  (top  quartile),  earnings  per 
share  growth  (top  50%)  and  operating  income  growth  (top  50%).  Based  on  this  sustained  strong 
performance,  the  Committee  determined  that  Mr.  Novak’s  target  total  compensation  for  2008  should  be 
set  near  or  at  the  75th  percentile  as  compared  to  the  compensation  of  chief  executives  in  the  peer  group. 

Based  on  this  analysis,  the  Committee  approved  the  following  compensation  for  2008: 


Salary 

$1,400,000 

Target  Bonus  Percentage 

150% 

Grant  Date  Economic  Value  of  2008  LTI  Award: 

Stock  Appreciation  Rights 

$4,160,000 

RSUs — Deferral  of  Bonus 

$1,580,964 

RSUs — Retention  Award 

$7,000,000 

After  the  adjustments  described  below,  the  Committee  noted  that  the  total  target  compensation  for 
Mr.  Novak  was  at  the  72nd  percentile  of  the  CEO  peer  group. 

The  Compensation  Committee  approved  a  2008  salary  increase  for  Mr.  Novak  of  6%  effective 
January  29,  2008,  adjusting  his  base  salary  to  $1,400,000.  The  Committee  also  approved  a  ten  percentage 
point  increase  in  his  target  bonus  percentage.  The  Compensation  Committee  approved  these  salary  and 
target  bonus  percentage  increases  based  on  its  desire  to  compensate  him  near  the  75th  percentile  for  total 
compensation  and  their  subjective  assessment  of  Mr.  Novak’s  demonstrated  strong  and  effective 
performance  in  2007.  The  Committee  structured  this  compensation  in  line  with  Yum’s  pay  for  performance 
philosophy  of  rewarding  performance  by  increasing  his  target  bonus  percentage  and  making  more  of  the 
additional  compensation  at  risk. 

In  January  2008,  the  Committee  approved  the  grant  date  value  of  the  long-term  incentive  award 
having  a  value  of  $5.74  million.  This  award  was  comprised  of  SARs  with  a  value  of  $4.16  million,  and 
restricted  stock  units  under  the  deferral  plan  with  a  value  of  $1.58  million.  This  award  reflected  the 
Compensation  Committee’s  subjective  determination  that,  based  on  his  strong  performance  in  2007  and 
the  sustained  performance  of  the  Company  (without  assigning  any  weight  to  any  particular  item),  he 
should  receive  a  long-term  incentive  award  consistent  with  their  desire  to  compensate  Mr.  Novak  at  the 
75th  percentile  for  total  compensation.  In  making  this  determination,  the  Committee  noted  that  Mr.  Novak 
elected  to  defer  100%  of  his  2007  annual  incentive  payment,  which  was  otherwise  payable  in  the  first 
quarter  of  2008.  As  a  result  of  this  deferral,  Mr.  Novak  received  a  matching  contribution  of  phantom 
shares  (referred  to  as  RSUs)  equal  in  value  to  33%  of  the  number  of  RSUs  he  received  upon  deferral  of 
his  bonus.  The  portion  of  the  deferral  attributable  to  the  matching  contribution,  $1.58  million,  was 
considered  by  the  Compensation  Committee  in  the  assessment  of  Mr.  Novak’s  long-term  incentive 
compensation  versus  the  market  and  in  the  determination  of  his  SARs  award  for  2008.  Specifically  (as 
noted  above),  the  Committee  determined  that  the  value  of  Mr.  Novak’s  total  long-term  incentive  award 
should  be  $5.74  million.  After  taking  into  consideration  the  matching  contributions  attributable  to  the 
deferral  of  his  2007  annual  incentive  payment,  this  resulted  in  awarding  a  SARs  award  with  a  value  of 
$4.16  million  ($5.74  million  less  $1.58  million). 

At  the  conclusion  of  2008,  the  Committee  determined  Mr.  Novak  earned  an  annual  incentive  award 
payment  for  2008  performance  of  $4,057,200.  For  2008,  the  Compensation  Committee  established 


Mr.  Novak’s  Team  Performance  Factor  measures  and  targets  as  set  forth  on  page  45.  The  Compensation 
Committee  determined  that  the  Company’s  actual  performance  against  these  criteria  and  goals  produced  a 
Team  Performance  Factor  of  138.  Refer  to  page  46  for  information  on  how  this  Team  Performance  Factor 
was  determined. 

For  purposes  of  determining  Mr.  Novak’s  Individual  Performance  Factor,  the  Compensation 
Committee  considered  the  following  pre-established  individual  criteria: 

•  Earnings  Per  Share  Growth 

•  Return  on  Invested  Capital 

•  Development  of  Permanent  Sales  Layers 

•  International  Restaurant  Development 

•  Restaurant  Operations  and  Marketing  Improvements 

•  Same  Store  Sales  Growth 

•  U.S.  Profit  Growth 

•  Customer  Satisfaction 

•  Diversity  and  Talent  Management 

The  Compensation  Committee  determined  that  Mr.  Novak  attained  or  exceeded  all  goals  within  each 
of  these  criteria,  except  for  overall  U.S  profit  growth.  In  addition,  the  Compensation  Committee  noted 
that  that  the  Company’s  EPS  growth  exceeded  its  target  of  10%  for  seven  straight  years,  that  the 
Company’s  total  shareholder  return  ranked  in  the  top  quartile  of  its  peer  group  for  2  of  the  last  3  years, 
and  that  the  new  sales  layers  at  the  Pizza  Hut  and  Taco  Bell  brands  had  performed  well.  The  Committee 
also  noted  that  development  targets  were  exceeded  in  the  China  and  International  Divisions  and  that  the 
Company  continued  to  drive  the  culture  and  develop  leaders.  Based  on  this  individual  performance,  the 
Committee  awarded  Mr.  Novak  an  Individual  Performance  Factor  of  140. 

After  determination  of  the  Team  Performance  Factor  and  Individual  Performance  Factor,  Mr.  Novak’s 
annual  incentive  was  calculated  as  shown  on  page  48. 

The  Committee  noted  that  over  the  last  ten  years  Mr.  Novak  has  accumulated  approximately  2  million 
RSUs  solely  through  the  voluntary  deferral  of  his  annual  incentives  totaling  approximately  $24  million  and 
that  these  RSUs  had  an  aggregate  value  in  excess  of  $60  million  as  of  the  end  of  2008.  These  RSUs  are 
payable  only  in  YUM  common  stock  and  are  not  payable  until  after  Mr.  Novak  leaves  the  Company. 
Through  the  deferral  program,  Mr.  Novak’s  ownership  of  these  RSUs  aligns  his  compensation  with 
achievement  of  YUM’s  long-term  financial  and  strategic  objectives  and  the  creation  of  shareholder  value. 
Mr.  Novak’s  deferral  of  his  annual  incentives,  which  will  not  be  distributed  until  after  he  retires,  drives 
long-term  decision  making,  further  aligning  his  interests  with  those  of  the  shareholders. 

During  2004,  the  Compensation  Committee  approved  an  employment  agreement  for  Mr.  Novak  that 
expired  on  October  31,  2007.  In  January  of  2008,  the  Committee  approved  a  retention  award  based  on 
Mr.  Novak’s  strong  leadership  over  the  preceding  ten  years,  the  Company’s  performance  during  that  time 
period,  and  to  help  ensure  his  continued  leadership  over  at  least  the  following  four  years.  The  retention 
award  was  a  grant  of  187,398  restricted  stock  units.  The  award  vests  after  four  years  and  has  an  economic 
value  of  $7  million.  The  award  will  be  paid  to  Mr.  Novak  in  shares  of  YUM  common  stock  six  months 
following  his  retirement  provided  that  he  does  not  leave  the  Company  before  the  award  vests.  Since  this 
award  was  intended  as  an  incentive  to  retain  Mr.  Novak  for  at  least  four  more  years  and  as  special 
recognition  for  the  Company’s  superior  performance  under  his  leadership,  it  was  not  considered  by  the 
Committee  in  determining  Mr.  Novak’s  2008  compensation. 


51 


While  the  Compensation  Committee  did  not  specifically  discuss  why  Mr.  Novak’s  compensation 
exceeds  that  of  other  named  executive  officers,  it  does  review  every  year,  as  part  of  its  process  for  setting 
compensation  described  beginning  on  page  41,  data  from  consultants  which  substantiates  on  a  comparative 
basis  this  difference  in  target  compensation.  This  comparative  market  data  analyzed  over  several  years 
supports  the  differences  in  salary,  long  term  incentive  and  annual  incentive  payment. 

Other  Benefits 

Deferral  of  Annual  Incentive  into  LTI 

In  keeping  with  the  Company’s  emphasis  on  executive  stock  ownership,  executives  have  the 
opportunity  to  defer  all  or  a  portion  of  their  annual  incentive  compensation  and  acquire  phantom  shares 
(referred  to  as  restricted  stock  units  or  “RSUs”)  of  YUM  common  stock  under  the  Company’s  Executive 
Income  Deferral  (“EID”)  Program.  Executives  deferring  their  annual  incentive  receive  an  additional 
number  of  RSUs  (“matching  RSUs”)  equal  to  33%  of  the  RSUs  received  at  the  time  of  deferral.  All  RSUs 
received  will  be  forfeited  if  the  participating  executive  voluntarily  leaves  the  Company  within  two  years 
following  the  deferral.  Under  the  EID  Program,  once  an  employee  reaches  age  55  with  10  years  of  service, 
the  forfeiture  provisions  are  less  onerous:  (1)  the  employee  is  not  subject  to  a  two  year  risk  of  forfeiture 
with  respect  to  any  annual  incentive  deferred  and  (2)  the  portion  of  the  deferral  attributable  to  the 
matching  RSUs  vests  ratably  over  one  year.  In  2008,  Messrs.  Novak  and  Su  attained  age  55  with  10  years  of 
service,  and  their  deferrals  became  subject  to  these  forfeiture  rules.  This  and  other  features  of  the  EID 
Program  are  described  in  more  detail  beginning  at  page  71. 

The  number  of  RSUs  that  each  named  executive  officer  received  by  deferring  his  2008  annual 
incentive  is  set  forth  on  page  63  under  the  Grants  of  Plan-Based  Awards  table.  The  value  of  these  RSUs 
(including  the  matching  RSUs  portion)  is  also  included  in  footnote  4  under  the  Summary  Compensation 
Table  on  page  59.  The  value  of  2008  annual  incentive  deferred  into  the  Company’s  EID  Program  is  not 
included  in  the  Nonqualified  Deferred  Compensation  Table  on  page  73.  This  is  because  that  table  reports 
deferred  compensation  as  of  December  31,  2008  and  the  2008  annual  incentive  is  not  awarded  (and 
therefore  deferred)  until  January  2009. 

Beginning  with  the  2009  bonus  deferrals,  the  two  year  risk  of  forfeiture  guidelines  will  apply  to  all 
executives  regardless  of  age  and  years  of  service.  Additionally,  the  CEO,  CFO  and  Brand/Division 
Presidents  will  no  longer  be  eligible  to  receive  the  33%  match  in  Yum  stock  on  their  bonus  deferrals.  For 
these  executives,  the  Committee  approved  a  Performance  Share  Plan  that  will  payout  shares  of  Company 
stock  based  on  the  3  year  compound  annual  growth  rate  of  the  Company’s  earnings  per  share. 

Retirement  Benefits 

We  offer  competitive  retirement  benefits  through  the  YUM!  Brands  Retirement  Plan  and  the  YUM! 
Brands,  Inc.  Pension  Equalization  Plan  for  employees  at  all  levels  who  meet  the  eligibility  requirements. 
These  are  broad-based  plans  designed  to  provide  a  retirement  benefit  based  on  years  of  service  with  the 
Company  and  average  annual  earnings.  The  annual  benefit  payable  under  these  plans  to  U.S. -based 
employees  hired  prior  to  October  1,  2001  is  discussed  following  the  Pension  Benefits  Table  on  page  67. 
This  benefit  is  designed  to  provide  income  replacement  of  approximately  40%  of  salary  and  annual 
incentive  compensation  (less  the  company’s  contribution  to  social  security  on  behalf  of  the  employee)  for 
employees  with  20  years  of  service  who  retire  after  age  62. 

The  annual  accrual  for  each  NEO  is  set  forth  on  page  59,  under  the  Summary  Compensation  Table, 
and  the  actual  projected  benefit  at  termination  is  set  forth  on  page  67,  under  the  Pension  Benefits  Table. 


Medical,  Dental,  Life  Insurance  and  Disability  Coverage 

We  also  provide  other  benefits  such  as  medical,  dental,  life  insurance  and  disability  coverage  to  each 
named  executive  officer  through  benefits  plans,  which  are  also  provided  to  all  eligible  U.S. -based  salaried 
employees.  Eligible  employees,  including  the  named  executive  officers,  can  purchase  additional  life, 
dependent  life  and  accidental  death  and  dismemberment  coverage  as  part  of  their  employee  benefits 
package.  Except  for  the  imputed  value  of  life  insurance  premiums,  the  value  of  these  benefits  is  not 
included  in  the  Summary  Compensation  Table  since  they  are  made  available  on  a  Company-wide  basis  to 
all  U.S.  based  salaried  employees. 

Perquisites 

We  provide  perquisites  to  our  executives  as  described  below.  The  value  of  these  perquisites  are 
included  in  the  Summary  Compensation  Table  in  the  column  headed  “All  Other  Compensation”,  and  they 
are  described  in  greater  detail  in  the  All  Other  Compensation  Table.  Perquisites  have  been  provided  since 
the  Company’s  inception  and  the  Committee  has  chosen  to  continue  them  each  year.  Some  perquisites  are 
provided  to  ensure  the  safety  of  the  executive.  In  the  case  of  foreign  assignment,  tax  equalization  is 
provided  to  equalize  different  tax  rates  between  the  executive’s  home  country  and  work  country. 

For  Senior  Leadership  Team  members  below  the  CEO,  we  pay  for  a  country  club  membership  and 
provide  up  to  $7,500  perquisite  allowance  annually.  If  the  executive  does  not  elect  a  country  club 
membership,  the  perquisite  allowance  is  increased  to  $11,500  annually.  We  also  provide  an  annual  car 
allowance  of  $27,500  and  an  annual  physical  examination. 

Our  CEO  does  not  receive  these  perquisites  or  allowances.  However,  Mr.  Novak  is  required  to  use  the 
Company  aircraft  for  personal  as  well  as  business  travel  pursuant  to  the  Company’s  executive  security 
program  established  by  the  Board  of  Directors.  The  Board’s  security  program  also  covers  Mrs.  Novak.  In 
this  regard,  the  Board  of  Directors  noted  that  from  time  to  time,  Mr.  Novak  has  been  physically  assaulted 
while  traveling  and  he  and  his  family  have  received  letters  and  calls  at  his  home  from  people  around  the 
globe  with  various  special  interests,  establishing  both  an  invasion  of  privacy  and  implicit  or  explicit  threats. 
The  Board  has  considered  this  enough  of  a  concern  to  require  security  for  Mr.  Novak,  including  the  use  of 
the  corporate  aircraft  for  personal  travel.  Other  executives  may  use  corporate  aircraft  for  personal  use  with 
the  prior  approval  of  Mr.  Novak.  (In  2008,  the  other  NEOs  did  not  use  corporate  aircraft  for  personal  use.) 
In  addition,  depending  on  seat  availability,  family  members  of  executive  officers  may  travel  on  the 
Company  aircraft  to  accompany  executives  who  are  traveling  on  business.  There  is  no  incremental  cost  to 
the  Company  for  these  trips.  The  incremental  cost  of  the  personal  use  by  Mr.  Novak  is  reported  on 
page  62.  We  do  not  gross  up  for  taxes  on  the  personal  use  of  the  company  aircraft.  We  also  pay  for  the  cost 
of  the  transmission  of  home  security  information  from  Mr.  Novak’s  home  to  our  security  department  and 
that  incremental  cost  is  reflected  in  the  “Other”  column  of  the  All  Other  Compensation  Table. 

In  the  case  of  Mr.  Su,  he  receives  several  perquisites  related  to  his  overseas  assignment.  These 
perquisites  were  part  of  his  original  compensation  package  and  the  Compensation  Committee  has  elected 
to  continue  to  provide  them.  The  amount  of  these  perquisites  is  reported  on  page  62.  Mr.  Su’s  agreement 
provides  that  the  following  will  be  provided:  annual  foreign  service  premium;  local  social  club  dues;  car; 
housing,  commodities,  and  utilities  allowances;  tax  preparation  services,  tax  equalization  to  the  United 
States  for  salary  and  bonus;  and  tax  equalization  to  Hong  Kong  (up  to  a  maximum  of  $5  million)  with 
respect  to  income  attributable  to  certain  stock  option  and  SAR  exercises  and  to  distributions  of  deferred 
income.  When  Mr.  Su  retires  from  the  Company,  he  will  be  required  to  reimburse  the  Company  for  the  tax 
reimbursements  for  certain  stock  option  and  SARs  exercises,  if  any,  made  within  six  months  of  his 
retirement. 


53 


Review  of  Total  Compensation 

We  intend  to  continue  our  strategy  of  compensating  our  executives  through  programs  that  emphasize 
performance-based  compensation.  To  that  end,  executive  compensation  through  annual  incentives  and 
stock  appreciation  rights/stock  option  grants  is  tied  directly  to  our  performance  and  is  structured  to  ensure 
that  there  is  an  appropriate  balance  between  our  financial  performance  and  shareholder  return.  The 
Compensation  Committee  reviewed  each  element  of  compensation  and  believes  that  the  compensation 
was  reasonable  in  its  totality.  In  addition,  the  Committee  believes  that  various  elements  of  this  program 
effectively  achieve  the  objective  of  aligning  compensation  with  performance  measures  that  are  directly 
related  to  the  Company’s  financial  goals  and  creation  of  shareholder  value  without  encouraging  executives 
to  take  unnecessary  and  excessive  risks. 

Before  finalizing  compensation  actions  with  regard  to  our  CEO,  the  Compensation  Committee  took 
into  consideration  all  elements  of  compensation  accruing  to  Mr.  Novak  in  2008.  These  elements  included 
salary,  annual  incentive  award,  and  long-term  incentive  awards.  Total  compensation  for  each  of  the  named 
executive  officers  was  reviewed  by  the  Compensation  Committee  for  2008.  Before  finalizing  compensation 
for  2008,  the  Compensation  Committee  considered  each  named  executive  officer’s  salary,  annual  incentive 
award,  stock  appreciation  rights  awards,  value  of  outstanding  equity  awards  (vested  and  unvested),  lump 
sum  value  of  pension  at  retirement  and  gains  realized  from  exercising  stock  options.  The  Compensation 
Committee  will  continue  to  review  total  compensation  at  least  once  a  year. 

YUM’s  Executive  Stock  Ownership  Guidelines 

BThe  Committee  has  established  stock  ownership  guidelines  for  our  top  600  employees.  Our  Chief 
Executive  Officer  is  required  to  own  336,000  shares  of  YUM  stock  or  stock  equivalents  (approximately 
seven  times  his  base  salary).  Senior  Leadership  Team  members  (other  than  Mr.  Novak)  are  expected  to 
attain  their  ownership  targets,  equivalent  in  value  to  two  to  three  times  their  current  annual  base  salary 
depending  upon  their  positions,  within  five  years  from  the  time  the  established  targets  become  applicable. 
Each  named  executive  officer’s  ownership  requirement  was  increased  from  24,000  to  50,000  shares  for 
2008.  If  an  executive  does  not  meet  his  or  her  ownership  guideline,  he  or  she  is  not  eligible  for  a  grant 
under  the  LTI  Plan.  In  2008,  all  Senior  Leadership  Team  members  and  all  other  employees  subject  to 
guidelines  met  or  exceeded  their  ownership  guidelines. 


Ownership 

Guidelines 

Shares  and  RSUs 
Owned  by 
NEO(l) 

Value  of  Shares/RSUs 
Owned  as  Multiple 
of  Salary(2) 

Novak 

336,000 

2,030,190 

43 

Carucci 

50,000 

123,389 

5 

Allan 

50,000 

334,214 

13 

Su 

50,000 

290,358 

11 

Creed 

50,000 

71,046 

3 

(1)  Calculated  as  of  December  31,  2008  and  represents  shares  owned  outright  by  the  NEO  and  RSUs 
acquired  under  the  Company’s  executive  income  deferral  program. 

(2)  Assumes  Yum  stock  price  of  $30.00. 

YUM’s  Stock  Option  and  Stock  Appreciation  Rights  Granting  Practices 

Historically,  we  have  always  awarded  non-qualified  stock  option  and  stock  appreciation  rights  grants 
annually  at  the  Compensation  Committee’s  January  meeting.  This  meeting  date  is  set  by  the  Board  of 
Directors  more  than  6  months  prior  to  the  actual  meeting.  Beginning  with  the  2009  grant,  the  Committee 


54 


i/. global-reports. c 


set  the  annual  grant  date  as  the  2nd  business  day  after  the  Q4  earnings  release.  We  do  not  backdate  options 
or  grant  options  retroactively.  In  addition,  we  do  not  time  such  grants  in  coordination  with  our  possession 
or  release  of  material,  non-public  or  other  information. 

We  make  grants  at  the  same  time  other  elements  of  annual  compensation  are  determined  so  that  we 
can  consider  all  elements  of  compensation  in  making  the  grants.  Pursuant  to  the  terms  of  our  LTI  Plan,  the 
exercise  price  is  set  as  the  closing  price  on  the  date  of  grant.  We  make  these  grants  to  NEOs  at  the  same 
time  they  are  granted  to  the  other  approximately  700  above  restaurant  leaders  of  our  Company  who  are 
eligible  for  stock  option  and  stock  appreciation  rights  grants. 

Management  recommends  the  awards  to  be  made  pursuant  to  our  LTI  Plan  to  the  Compensation 
Committee.  While  the  Compensation  Committee  gives  significant  weight  to  management 
recommendations  concerning  grants  to  Senior  Leadership  Team  members  (other  than  the  CEO),  the 
Compensation  Committee  makes  the  determination  whether  and  to  whom  to  issue  grants  and  determines 
the  amount  of  the  grant.  The  Board  of  Directors  has  delegated  to  Mr.  Novak  and  Anne  Byerlein,  our  Chief 
People  Officer,  the  ability  to  make  grants  to  employees  who  are  not  Senior  Leadership  Team  members  and 
whose  grant  is  less  than  approximately  33,000  options  or  appreciation  rights  annually.  In  the  case  of  these 
grants,  the  Committee  sets  all  the  terms  of  each  award,  except  the  actual  number  of  stock  appreciation 
rights  or  options,  which  are  determined  by  Mr.  Novak  and  Ms.  Byerlein  pursuant  to  guidelines  approved  by 
the  Compensation  Committee  in  January  of  each  year. 

Grants  may  also  be  made  on  other  dates  that  the  Board  of  Directors  meets.  These  grants  generally  are 
Chairman’s  Awards,  which  are  made  in  recognition  of  superlative  performance  and  extraordinary  impact 
on  business  results.  Over  the  last  4  years,  we  have  averaged  12  Chairman’s  Award  grants  per  year  outside 
of  the  January  time  frame,  and  in  most  cases  these  grants  have  been  awarded  to  employees  below  the 
Senior  Leadership  Team  level.  In  2008,  we  made  12  Chairman’s  Award  grants. 

Payments  upon  Termination  of  Employment 

The  Company  does  not  have  agreements  concerning  payments  upon  termination  of  employment 
except  in  the  case  of  a  change  in  control  of  the  Company.  The  terms  of  these  change  of  control  agreements 
are  described  beginning  on  page  73.  The  Committee  believes  these  are  appropriate  agreements  for 
retaining  executives  to  preserve  shareholder  value  in  case  of  a  threatened  change  in  control.  The 
Committee  does  not  review  these  agreements  or  other  aspects  of  the  Company’s  change  in  control 
program  every  year. 

The  Company’s  change  in  control  agreements,  in  general,  pay,  in  case  of  an  executive’s  termination  of 
employment  for  other  than  cause  within  two  years  of  the  change  in  control,  a  benefit  of  two  times  salary 
and  bonus  and  provide  for  a  tax  gross-up  in  case  of  any  excise  tax.  In  addition,  unvested  stock  options  and 
stock  appreciation  rights  vest  upon  a  change  of  control  (as  fully  described  under  “Change  in  Control” 
beginning  on  page  75).  Other  benefits  (i.e.,  bonus,  severance  payments  and  outplacement)  generally 
require  a  change  in  control,  followed  by  a  termination  of  an  executive’s  employment.  In  adopting  the 
so-called  “single”  trigger  treatment  for  equity  awards,  the  Company  is  guided  by: 

•  keeping  employees  relatively  whole  for  a  reasonable  period  but  avoiding  creating  a  “windfall” 

•  ensuring  that  ongoing  employees  are  treated  the  same  as  terminated  employees  with  respect  to 
outstanding  equity  awards 

•  providing  employees  with  the  same  opportunities  as  shareholders,  who  are  free  to  sell  their 
equity  at  the  time  of  the  change  in  control  event  and  thereby  realize  the  value  created  at  the 
time  of  the  deal 


55 


•  the  Company  that  made  the  original  equity  grant  may  no  longer  exist  after  a  change  in  control 
and  employees  should  not  be  required  to  have  the  fate  of  their  outstanding  equity  tied  to  the 
new  company’s  future  success 

•  supporting  the  compelling  business  need  to  retain  key  employees  during  uncertain  times 

•  providing  a  powerful  retention  device  during  change  in  control  discussions,  especially  for  more 
senior  executives  whose  equity  awards  represents  a  significant  portion  of  their  total  pay 
package 

•  a  double  trigger  on  equity  awards  provides  no  certainty  of  what  will  happen  when  the 
transaction  closes 

As  shown  under  “Change  in  Control”  beginning  on  page  75,  the  Company  will  provide  tax  gross-ups 
for  the  named  executive  officers  for  any  excise  taxes  due  under  Section  4999  of  the  Internal  Revenue  Code. 
The  effects  of  Section  4999  generally  are  unpredictable  and  can  have  widely  divergent  and  unexpected 
effects  based  on  an  executive’s  personal  compensation  history.  Therefore,  to  provide  an  equal  level  of 
benefit  across  individuals  without  regard  to  the  effect  of  the  excise  tax,  the  Company  and  Compensation 
Committee  continue  to  believe  that  Section  4999  tax  gross-up  payments  are  appropriate  for  the  Company’s 
most  senior  executives. 

The  Company  does  provide  for  pension  and  life  insurance  benefits  in  case  of  retirement  as  described 
beginning  at  page  74  and  the  continued  ability  to  exercise  options  in  case  of  retirement.  Vesting  of  RSUs 
under  the  EID  program  accelerates  once  an  employee  reaches  age  55  with  10  years  of  service.  The 
Committee  does  not  specifically  consider  the  change  in  control  benefits  or  any  of  these  other  benefits  in 
determining  each  named  executive  officers  other  compensation  elements,  although  the  Committee  is 
aware  of  these  items  of  compensation  when  making  annual  compensation  decisions.  With  respect  to 
consideration  of  how  these  benefits  fit  into  the  overall  compensation  policy,  the  change  of  control  benefits 
are  reviewed  from  time  to  time  by  the  Committee  for  competitiveness.  When  last  reviewed  by  the 
Committee  in  2006,  its  independent  consultant  indicated  that  these  benefits  generally  fall  below  the 
average  for  companies  of  our  size  and,  therefore,  fall  within  (and  arguably  under)  the  competitive  norm. 
As  noted  above,  the  Committee  believes  the  benefits  provided  in  case  of  a  change  in  control  are 
appropriate  and  are  consistent  with  the  policy  of  attracting  and  retaining  highly  qualified  employees. 

In  analyzing  the  reasonableness  of  these  change  in  control  benefits,  the  Committee  chose  not  to 
consider  wealth  accumulation  of  the  executives  (although  this  information  was  provided  to  the  Committee) 
in  determining  whether  these  benefits  should  be  provided.  This  is  because,  if  properly  designed,  the 
Committee  believes  a  change  in  control  program  protects  shareholder  interests  by  enhancing  employee 
focus  during  rumored  or  actual  change  in  control  activity  through: 

•  incentives  to  remain  with  the  Company  despite  uncertainties  while  a  transaction  is  under 
consideration  or  pending 

•  assurance  of  severance  and  benefits  for  terminated  employees 

•  access  to  equity  components  of  total  compensation  after  a  change  in  control 

Future  Severance  Agreement  Policy 

As  recommended  by  shareholders  in  2007,  the  Committee  approved  a  new  policy  in  2007  to  limit 
future  severance  agreements  with  our  executives.  The  Committee  adopted  a  policy  under  which  the 
Company  will  seek  shareholder  approval  for  future  severance  payments  to  a  named  executive  officer  if 
such  payments  would  exceed  2.99  times  the  sum  of  (a)  the  named  executive  officer’s  annual  base  salary  as 
in  effect  immediately  prior  to  termination  of  employment;  and  (b)  the  highest  annual  bonus  awarded  to 
the  named  executive  officer  by  the  Company  in  any  of  the  Company’s  three  full  fiscal  years  immediately 
preceding  the  fiscal  year  in  which  termination  of  employment  occurs  or,  if  higher,  the  executive’s  target 


bonus.  Certain  types  of  payments  are  excluded  from  this  policy,  such  as  amounts  payable  under 
arrangements  that  apply  to  classes  of  employees  other  than  the  named  executive  officers  or  that  predate 
the  implementation  of  the  policy,  as  well  as  any  payment  that  the  Committee  determines  is  a  reasonable 
settlement  of  a  claim  that  could  be  made  by  the  named  executive  officer. 

Recoupment  Policy 

In  2009,  the  Compensation  Committee  adopted  a  Compensation  Recovery  Policy  for  stock  awards 
and  annual  incentives  awarded  after  2008.  Pursuant  to  this  policy,  executive  officers  (including  the  NEOs) 
may  be  required  to  return  compensation  paid  based  on  financial  results  that  were  later  restated.  This 
policy  applies  only  if  the  executive  officers  engaged  in  knowing  misconduct  that  contributed  to  the  need  for 
a  material  restatement,  or  contributed  to  the  use  of  inaccurate  metrics  in  the  calculation  of  incentive 
compensation.  Under  this  policy,  when  the  Board  determines  in  its  sole  discretion  that  recovery  of 
compensation  was  appropriate,  the  Company  could  require  repayment  of  all  or  a  portion  of  any  bonus, 
incentive  payment,  equity-based  award  or  other  compensation,  to  the  fullest  extent  permitted  by  law. 

Deductibility  of  Executive  Compensation 

This  provision  of  Section  162(m)  of  the  Internal  Revenue  Code  limits  the  tax  deduction  for 
compensation  in  excess  of  one  million  dollars  paid  to  certain  executive  officers.  However,  performance- 
based  compensation  is  excluded  from  the  limit  so  long  as  it  meets  certain  requirements.  The 
Compensation  Committee  believes  that  the  annual  incentive  awards  and  stock  option  and  stock 
appreciation  rights  grants  satisfy  the  requirements  for  exemption  under  the  Internal  Revenue  Code 
Section  162(m).  Payments  made  under  these  plans  qualify  as  performance-based  compensation. 

For  2008,  the  annual  salary  paid  to  Mr.  Novak  exceeded  one  million  dollars.  The  Compensation 
Committee  sets  Mr.  Novak’s  salary  as  described  above  under  the  heading  “Compensation  of  Our  Chief 
Executive  Officer.”  The  other  named  executive  officers  were  in  each  case  paid  salaries  of  less  than  one 
million  dollars.  The  2008  annual  incentives  were  all  paid  pursuant  to  our  annual  incentive  program  and 
will,  therefore,  be  deductible.  In  this  regard,  the  Compensation  Committee  exercises  “negative  discretion” 
in  setting  payouts  under  the  annual  incentive  plan.  By  setting  a  high  amount  which  can  then  be  reduced  at 
the  Committee’s  discretion,  our  annual  incentive  plan  meets  the  requirements  of  Section  162(m)  of  the 
Internal  Revenue  Code.  In  2008,  the  Compensation  Committee,  after  certifying  that  EPS  had  exceeded  the 
10%  growth  target  which  would  permit  a  maximum  payout,  exercised  its  negative  discretion  to  reduce  the 
payout  to  the  CEO  from  $6.0  million  to  $4.06  million.  As  discussed  beginning  at  page  50,  this  reduction 
was  not  a  negative  reflection  on  the  CEO’s  performance  as  he,  in  fact,  performed  significantly  above 
expectations  (for  example,  EPS  growth  was  14%).  While  the  Compensation  Committee  does  utilize 
“negative  discretion”  from  a  tax  perspective,  the  Committee  administers  the  plan,  in  particular  with  the 
setting  of  objective  performance  criteria  as  discussed  beginning  at  page  45,  as  if  the  annual  incentive  plan 
was  a  non-discretionary  plan.  For  example,  if  a  performance  measure  is  not  attained  at  a  certain  level,  no 
bonus  will  be  paid. 

To  the  extent  any  of  the  named  executive  officers  defer  their  annual  incentives  into  phantom  shares  of 
YUM  common  stock  and  receive  a  matching  contribution,  the  annual  incentives  are  no  longer  qualified 
under  Section  162(m).  However,  we  expect  incentives  will  be  deductible  when  paid  because  they  will  be 
paid  only  at  a  time  when  they  will  otherwise  represent  deductible  compensation,  such  as  payments  made 
when  the  executive  is  no  longer  a  named  executive  officer.  Due  to  the  Company’s  focus  on  performance- 
based  compensation  plans  and  the  deferral  of  compensation  by  certain  executive  officers,  we  expect  to 
continue  to  qualify  most  compensation  paid  to  the  named  executive  officers  as  tax  deductible. 


57 


COMPENSATION  COMMITTEE  REPORT 

The  Compensation  Committee  of  the  Board  of  Directors  reports  that  it  has  reviewed  and  discussed 
with  management  the  section  of  this  proxy  statement  headed  “Compensation  Discussion  and  Analysis,” 
and,  on  the  basis  of  that  review  and  discussion,  recommended  that  section  be  included  in  our  Annual 
Report  on  Form  10-K  and  in  this  proxy  statement. 

THE  COMPENSATION  COMMITTEE 

Thomas  M.  Ryan,  Chair 

David  W.  Dorman 

Massimo  Ferragamo 

Bonnie  G.  Hill 

Robert  D.  Walter* 


Joined  Committee  in  January  2009 


58 


The  following  tables  provide  information  on  compensation  and  stock  based  awards  paid,  earned  or 
awarded  for  2008,  2007  and  2006  by  YUM  to  our  Chief  Executive  Officer,  Chief  Financial  Officer  and  our 
three  other  most  highly  compensated  executive  officers  as  of  the  end  of  our  2008  fiscal  year  in  accordance 
with  the  rules  of  the  SEC. 


SUMMARY  COMPENSATION  TABLE 


Name  and 

Principal  Position 
(a) 

Y(b) 

($)(U 

(c) 

Bonus($) 

Stock 

Awards 

($)(2) 

(d) 

Option 

Awards 

($)(3) 

(e) 

Non-Equity 

Incentive 

Plan 

Compensation 

($)(4) 

(0 

Change  in 
Pension 
Value  and 
Nonqualified 
Deferred 
Compensation 
Earnings 
($)(5) 

(g) 

All  Other 
Compensation 

($)(6) 

(h) 

Total($) 

(i) 

David  C.  Novak 

2008 

1,393,846 

_ 

3,070,690 

4,345,579 

4,057,200 

5,255,931 

239,709 

18,362,955 

Chairman,  Chief 

2007 

1,312,308 

— 

3,354,572 

4,257,692 

4,742,892 

1,647,578 

203,939 

15,518,981 

Executive  Officer 
and  President 

2006 

1,215,000 

— 

3,355,718 

4,082,240 

— 

2,069,631 

169,310 

10,891,899 

Richard  T.  Carucci 

2008 

669,231 

_ 

815,188 

1,248,447 

497,980 

1,131,924 

36,963 

4,399,733 

Chief  Financial 

2007 

590,385 

— 

561,093 

835,113 

379,134 

251,902 

71,580 

2,689,207 

Officer 

2006 

471,154 

— 

194,141 

649,520 

359,100 

342,312 

43,102 

2,059,329 

Jing-Shyh  S.  Su 

2008 

769,231 

_ 

546,260 

1,684,052 

1,609,598 

1,107,629 

1,434,625 

7,151,395 

Vice  Chairman, 

2007 

686,539 

— 

708,292 

1,154,856 

1,719,900 

1,486,408 

1,408,513 

7,164,508 

President,  China 
Division 

2006 

523,077 

— 

1,163,137 

1,044,288 

— 

493,258 

378,475 

3,602,235 

Graham  D.  Allan 

2008 

769,231 

_ 

1,142,754 

1,740,703 

_ 

502,319 

207,063 

4,362,070 

President,  Yum! 

2007 

688,462 

— 

102,625 

1,765,926 

1,615,950 

188,483 

52,661 

4,414,107 

Restaurants 

International 

2006 

542,308 

— 

193,271 

1,004,983 

897,600 

182,588 

47,389 

2,868,139 

Greg  Creed 

2008 

612,692 

_ 

866,057 

1,317,940 

_ 

3,203 

361,012 

3,160,904 

President  and 

2007 

525,000 

— 

556,046 

1,230,086 

— 

— 

267,824 

2,578,956 

Chief  Concept 
Officer, 

Taco  Bell  U.S. 

2006 

425,096 

415,282 

482,242 

4,604 

126,855 

1,454,079 

(1)  Amounts  shown  are  not  reduced  to  reflect  named  executive  officers’  elections,  if  any,  to  defer  receipt  of  salary  into  the 
Executive  Income  Deferral  (“EID”)  Program  or  into  the  Company’s  401(k)  Plan.  The  annualized  rates  of  base  salary  in  effect 
as  of  December  31,  2008  for  the  NEOs  were  as  follows: 


David  C.  Novak .  1,400,000 

Richard  T.  Carucci .  675,000 

Jing-Shyh  S.  Su  .  775,000 

Graham  D.  Allan .  775,000 

Greg  Creed .  620,000 


(2)  Amounts  in  this  column  represent  the  dollar  amount  recognized  for  the  applicable  fiscal  years  for  financial  statement  reporting 
purposes  in  accordance  with  FAS  123R  for  the  fair  value  of  restricted  stock  units  (“RSUs”)  granted  under  the  EID  Program 
with  respect  to  annual  incentives  deferred  into  the  EID  and  subject  to  a  risk  of  forfeiture  at  the  time  of  deferral  in  2008,  2007 
and  2006  as  well  as  prior  fiscal  years,  rather  than  amounts  paid  or  realized  by  each  NEO.  Pursuant  to  SEC  rules,  the  amounts 
shown  exclude  the  impact  of  estimated  forfeitures  related  to  service-based  vesting  conditions.  RSUs  granted  under  the  EID 
Program  are  granted,  as  described  in  more  detail  beginning  on  page  71,  when  an  executive  elects  to  defer  all  or  a  portion  of 
his/her  annual  incentive  award  under  the  EID  Program  and  invests  that  deferral  in  RSUs.  The  actual  2008  annual  incentive 
award  amounts  are  described  in  footnotes  to  column  (f). 

The  amounts  in  this  column  reflect  the  financial  statement  expense  of  awards  with  respect  to  2003-2008  and  are  based  on  the 
average  of  the  highest  and  lowest  per  share  price  of  Company  stock  on  the  NYSE  on  the  grant  date  (except  for  2007  and  2008 


59 


where  we  used  the  closing  price  on  the  grant  date).  Units  are  settled  by  delivery  of  shares  at  the  time  the  executive  elects  to 
receive  payout. 

Under  the  terms  of  the  EID  Program,  an  employee  who  is  age  55  with  10  years  of  service  is  fully  vested  in  the  amount  of  the 
deferral  attributable  to  the  actual  incentive  award.  Upon  attainment  of  this  threshold,  the  matching  contributions  attributable 
to  the  deferral  is  subject  to  forfeiture  on  a  pro  rata  basis  for  the  year  following  the  deferral.  Messrs.  Novak  and  Su  had  attained 
this  threshold  at  the  time  of  their  2007  and  2008  annual  incentive  awards  and  thus  only  the  matching  contribtions  attributable  to 
their  2007  and  2008  annual  incentive  awards  that  were  recognized  for  financial  statement  reporting  purposes  in  2007  and  2008 
are  included  in  this  column.  The  remainder  of  their  deferrals  attributable  to  the  2007  and  2008  annual  incentive  awards  (that  is 
the  amount  not  subject  to  forfeiture)  are  reported  in  column  (f). 

In  Mr.  Novak’s  case,  for  2008  this  also  represents  the  dollar  amount  recognized  in  accordance  with  FAS  123R  for  the  2008  fiscal 
year  with  respect  to  a  RSU  grant  under  our  Long  Term  Incentive  Plan.  The  grant  vests  after  four  years  and  Mr.  Novak  may  not 
sell  the  shares  until  6  months  following  his  retirement  from  the  Company.  The  expense  of  this  award  is  recognized  over  the 
vesting  period. 

Information  with  respect  to  the  RSUs  granted  to  the  named  executive  officers  in  2008  is  disclosed  in  the  Grants  of  Plan-Based 
Awards  Table  on  page  63  of  this  proxy  statement  and  the  accompanying  notes.  Information  with  respect  to  RSUs  reflected  in 
this  column  that  were  granted  in  years  before  2008  is  disclosed  in  the  Outstanding  Equity  Awards  at  Fiscal  Year-End  table  on 
pages  65  and  66  of  this  proxy  statement  and  the  accompanying  notes. 

(3)  Amounts  in  this  column  represent  the  dollar  amount  recognized  for  the  applicable  fiscal  years  for  financial  statement  reporting 
purposes  in  accordance  with  FAS  123R  for  the  fair  value  of  stock  appreciation  rights  (“SARs”)  or  stock  options  granted  to  each 
NEO  in  2008,  2007  and  2006.  Pursuant  to  SEC  rules,  the  amounts  shown  exclude  the  impact  of  estimated  forfeitures  related  to 
service-based  vesting  conditions.  These  amounts  reflect  the  Company’s  accounting  expense  for  these  awards,  and  do  not 
correspond  to  the  actual  value  that  will  be  recognized  by  the  named  executives.  These  grants  were  made  under  the  1999 
Long-Term  Incentive  Plan.  See  the  Grants  of  Plan-Based  Awards  Table  for  information  on  SARs  and  options  granted  in  2008. 
Information  with  respect  to  SARs  and  options  reflected  in  this  column  that  were  granted  in  years  before  2008  is  disclosed  in  the 
Outstanding  Equity  Awards  at  Fiscal  Year-End  table  on  pages  65  and  66  of  this  proxy  statement  and  the  accompanying  notes. 
For  a  discussion  of  the  assumptions  and  methodologies  used  to  value  the  awards  reported  in  Column  (d)  and  Column  (e), 
please  see  the  discussion  of  stock  awards  and  option  awards  contained  in  Part  II,  Item  8,  “Financial  Statements  and 
Supplementary  Data”  of  the  Annual  Report  in  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  at  Note  16,  “Stock  Options  and 
Stock  Appreciation  Rights.” 

(4)  Except  as  provided  below  and  in  footnote  (2)  above,  amounts  in  column  (f)  reflect  the  annual  incentive  awards  earned  for  the 
2008,  2007  and  2006  fiscal  year  performance  periods,  which  were  awarded  by  our  Compensation  Committee  in  January  2009, 
January  2008  and  January  2007,  respectively,  under  the  YUM!  Leaders’  Bonus  Program,  which  is  described  further  beginning 
on  page  44  under  the  heading  “Performance-Based  Annual  Incentive  Compensation”.  Under  the  Company’s  EID  Program 
(which  is  described  in  more  detail  beginning  on  page  71),  executives  are  permitted  to  defer  their  annual  incentive  award  and 
invest  that  deferral  into  stock  units,  RSUs  or  other  investment  alternatives  offered  under  the  program.  Under  the  EID 
Program,  an  executive  who  elects  to  defer  his/her  annual  incentive  award  into  RSUs  will  receive  additional  RSUs  equal  to  33% 
of  the  RSUs  acquired  with  the  deferral  of  the  annual  incentive  award  (“matching  contribution”).  Pursuant  to  SEC  rules,  annual 
incentives  deferred  into  RSUs  under  the  EID  and  subject  to  a  risk  of  forfeiture  are  reported  in  column  (d).  If  the  deferral  or  a 
portion  of  the  deferral  is  not  subject  to  a  risk  of  forfeiture,  it  is  reported  in  column  (f). 

For  2008  and  2007,  Messrs.  Novak  and  Su  deferred  100%  of  their  annual  incentives  into  RSUs,  and  since  each  attained  age  55 
with  10  years  of  service,  therefore,  as  explained  in  footnote  (2),  they  were  fully  vested  in  the  deferral  of  their  2007  and  2008 
annual  incentive  at  the  time  of  their  deferral  and  their  annual  incentives  are  reported  in  column  (f).  For  2006,  Messrs.  Novak 
and  Su  each  elected  to  defer  100%  of  their  annual  incentive  into  RSUs,  resulting  in  nothing  to  report  in  column  (f). 

For  2008  and  2007,  Mr.  Carucci  elected  to  defer  56%  and  70%,  respectively,  of  his  annual  incentive  into  RSUs  subject  to  a  risk 
of  forfeiture.  For  2006,  Mr.  Carucci  elected  to  defer  50%  of  his  annual  incentive  into  RSUs  subject  to  a  risk  of  forfeiture. 

For  2008,  Mr.  Allan  deferred  100%  of  his  annual  incentive  into  RSUs.  For  2007  and  2006,  Mr.  Allan  did  not  defer  his  annual 
incentives  into  RSUs;  therefore,  the  entire  amount  of  these  annual  incentives  are  reported  in  column  (f). 

For  2008,  2007  and  2006,  Mr.  Creed  elected  to  defer  100%  of  his  annual  incentive  into  RSUs,  resulting  in  nothing  to  report  in 
column  (f). 


60 


Below  is  the  2008,  2007  and  2006  annual  incentive  awards  for  each  named  executive  officer  as  approved  by  our  Compensation 
Committee.  Also  reported  below  is  the  amount  of  2008,  2007  and  2006  annual  incentive  elected  to  be  deferred  by  the  executive 
and  the  amount  of  matching  contribution  in  the  case  of  deferrals  of  the  2008,  2007  and  2006  annual  incentive  awards  into  RSUs. 


2008  Annual 
Incentive 

Amount  of  2008 
Annual  Incentive 
Elected  to 
be  Deferred 
into  the 
Discount 

Stock  Fund* 

Matching 

Contribution* 

Novak  . 

4,057,200 

4,057,200 

1,352,400 

Carucci . 

1,131,773 

633,793 

211,264 

Su . 

1,609,598 

1,609,598 

536,533 

Allan . 

1,965,206 

1,965,206 

655,069 

Creed . 

907,494 

907,494 

302,498 

Amounts  in  these  columns  were  deferred  in  January  2009  when  the  2008  annual  incentive  was  approved  by  the 
Compensation  Committee.  This  means  they  will  not  be  reported  in  the  Nonqualified  Deferred  Compensation  table  at 
page  73  because  the  deferrals  occurred  after  2008.  These  amounts  will  be  reported  in  the  Nonqualified  Deferred 
Compensation  tables  in  next  year’s  proxy. 


2007  Annual 
Incentive 
Award 

Amount  of  2007 
Annual  Incentive 
Elected  to 
be  Deferred 
into  the 
Discount 

Stock  Fund 

Matching 

Contribution 

Novak  . 

4,742,892 

4,742,892 

1,580,964 

Carucci . 

1,263,780 

884,646 

294,882 

Su . 

1,719,900 

1,719,900 

573,300 

Allan . 

1,615,950 

— 

— 

Creed  . 

396,060 

396,060 

132,020 

2006  Annual 
Incentive 
Award 


Amount  of  2006 
Annual  Incentive 
Elected  to 
be  Deferred 
into  the 
Discount 
Stock  Fund 


Matching 

Contribution 


Novak 
Carucci 
Su  .  .  . 
Allan  . 
Creed  . 


3,347,680 

718,200 

963,900 

897,600 

679,587 


3,347,680 

359,100 

963,900 

679,587 


1,115,893 

119,700 

321,300 

226,529 


(5)  Amounts  in  column  (g)  reflect  the  aggregate  increase  in  actuarial  present  value  of  age  62  accrued  benefits  under  all  actuarial 
pension  plans  during  the  2008  fiscal  year  (using  interest  rate  and  mortality  assumptions  consistent  with  those  used  in  the 
Company’s  financial  statements).  See  the  Pension  Benefits  Table  at  page  67  for  a  detailed  discussion  of  the  Company’s  pension 
benefits.  The  Company  does  not  pay  “above  market”  interest  on  non-qualified  deferred  compensation;  therefore,  this  column 
reflects  pension  accruals  only.  For  Mr.  Creed  in  2007,  the  actuarial  present  value  of  his  accrued  benefit  decreased  $237; 
however,  under  SEC  rules,  the  change  is  to  be  reflected  as  a  “0.” 

(6)  Amounts  in  this  column  are  explained  in  the  All  Other  Compensation  Table  and  footnotes  to  that  table,  which  follows. 


61 


ALL  OTHER  COMPENSATION  TABLE 


The  following  table  contains  a  breakdown  of  the  compensation  and  benefits  included  under  All  Other 
Compensation  in  the  Summary  Compensation  Table  above  for  2008. 


(a)™ 

Perquisites(l) 

(b) 

Tax 

Reimbursements^) 

(c) 

Insurance 

premiums(3) 

(d) 

Other(4) 

(e) 

Total 

(f> 

Novak 

208,104 

_ 

18,030 

13,575 

239,709 

Carucci 

27,500 

— 

4,463 

5,000 

36,963 

Su 

277,799 

1,119,187 

9,904 

27,735 

1,434,625 

Allan 

27,500 

165,250 

5,306 

9,007 

207,063 

Creed 

195,887 

147,403 

3,987 

13,735 

361,012 

(1)  Amounts  in  this  column  include  for  Mr.  Novak:  incremental  cost  for  the  personal  use  of  Company 
aircraft  ($208,104 — we  calculate  the  incremental  cost  to  the  Company  of  any  personal  use  of 
Company  aircraft  based  on  the  cost  of  fuel,  trip-related  maintenance,  crew  travel,  on  board  catering, 
landing  and  license  fees,  “dead  head”  costs  of  flying  planes  to  and  from  locations  for  personal  use, 
and  contract  labor);  for  Messrs.  Carucci  and  Allan:  Company  car  allowance  ($27,500);  for  Mr.  Su: 
expatriate  spendables/housing  allowance  ($228,391);  and  Company  car  allowance  ($49,408),  which 
includes  depreciation,  the  cost  of  fuel,  repair  and  maintenance,  insurance  and  taxes;  for  Mr.  Creed: 
Company  annual  contribution  to  his  Australian  defined  contribution  plan  ($168,387);  and  Company 
car  allowance  ($27,500). 

(2)  Amounts  in  this  column  reflect  payments  to  the  executive  of  tax  reimbursements  related  to  tax 
preparation  assistance,  relocation  expenses,  country  club  dues  and,  taxable  pension  contributions.  For 
Mr.  Su,  as  explained  at  page  53,  this  amount  represents  the  Company  provided  tax  reimbursement  for 
China  income  taxes  incurred  on  deferred  income  distributions  which  exceed  the  marginal  Hong  Kong 
tax  rate. 

(3)  These  amounts  reflect  the  income  each  executive  was  deemed  to  receive  from  IRS  tables  related  to 
Company  provided  life  insurance  in  excess  of  $50,000.  The  Company  provides  every  salaried 
employee  with  life  insurance  coverage  up  to  one  times  the  employee’s  salary  plus  target  bonus. 

(4)  This  column  reports  the  total  amount  of  other  benefits  provided,  none  of  which  individually  exceeded 
the  greater  of  $25,000  or  10%  of  the  total  amount  of  these  benefits  and  the  perquisites  and  other 
personal  benefits  shown  in  column  (b)  for  the  named  executive.  These  other  benefits  include:  home 
security  expense,  perquisite  allowance,  relocation  expenses,  annual  payment  for  foreign  service,  club 
dues,  tax  preparation  assistance,  Company  provided  parking  and  annual  physical. 


62 


reports.c 


The  following  table  provides  information  on  stock  appreciation  rights  and  restricted  stock  units  granted  for  2008  to  each  of  the  Company’ 
named  executive  officers.  The  amount  of  these  awards  that  were  expensed  is  shown  in  the  Summary  Compensation  Table  at  page  59. 


63 


Amounts  in  columns  (c),  (d)  and  (e)  provide  the  minimum  amount,  target  amount  and  maximum  amounts  payable  as  annual  incentive 
compensation  under  the  YUM!  Leaders’  Bonus  Program  based  on  the  Company’s  performance  and  on  each  executive’s  individual 
performance  during  2008.  The  actual  amount  of  annual  incentive  compensation  awarded  for  2008  is  shown  in  the  footnotes  to  column  (f)  of 
the  Summary  Compensation  Table  on  page  60.  The  performance  measurements,  performance  targets,  and  target  bonus  percentage  are 
described  in  the  Compensation  Discussion  and  Analysis  beginning  on  page  44  under  the  discussion  of  annual  incentive  compensation. 


(2)  Amounts  in  this  column  reflect  the  number  of  RSUs  each  executive  received  with  respect  to  the  executive’s  deferral  of  his  2008  annual 
incentive  under  the  Company’s  EID  Program  which  is  described  in  more  detail  beginning  on  page  71.  The  grant  dates  for  RSUs  in  2009 
reflect  the  date  of  the  annual  incentive  award  made  on  February  5,  2009,  as  approved,  by  the  Compensation  Committee  at  its  January  23, 
2009  meeting.  The  per-RSU  FAS  123R  value  was  $29.29  on  February  5.  There  can  be  no  assurance  that  the  value  of  the  common  stock 
received  upon  settlement  of  the  RSU  will  equal  the  FAS  123R  values. 


64 


i/. global-reports. c 


OUTSTANDING  EQUITY  AWARDS  AT  FISCAL  YEAR-END 


The  following  table  shows  the  number  of  shares  covered  by  exercisable  and  unexercisable  stock 
options,  SARs  and  unvested  RSUs  held  by  the  Company’s  named  executive  officers  on  December  31,  2008. 


Name 

Option  Awards  (1) 

Stock  Awards 

Number  of 
Securities 
Underlying 
Unexercised 
Options 
(#) 

Exercisable 

(b) 

Number  of 
Securities 
Underlying 
Unexercised 
Options 
(#) 

Unexercisable 

(c) 

Option 

Exercise 

Price 

($) 

(d) 

Option 

Expiration 

Date 

(e) 

Number  of 
Shares  or  Units  of 
Stock  That 

Have  Not  Vested 
(#)(2) 

(g) 

Market  Value  of 
Shares  or  Units  of 
Stock  That 

Have  Not  Vested 
($) 

(h) 

Novak 

309,964 

— 

$  5.70 

1/25/2011 

1,239,856 

— 

$  8.62 

1/25/2011 

1,012,960 

— 

$  8.39 

1/25/2011 

802,696 

— 

$12.20 

12/31/2011 

824,574 

— 

$12.16 

1/23/2013 

585,934 

— 

$17.23 

1/27/2014 

341,454 

113,818(i) 

$22.53 

1/28/2015 

258,989 

258, 989(h) 

$24.47 

1/26/2016 

122,740 

368,220(iii) 

$29.61 

1/19/2017 

— 

428,339(v) 

$37.30 

1/24/2018 

193,936 

6,108,986 

Carucci 

95,308 

_ 

$  7.57 

1/27/2010 

131,092 

— 

$  8.39 

1/25/2011 

61,808 

— 

$12.20 

12/31/2011 

70,090 

— 

$12.16 

1/23/2013 

29,020 

— 

$17.23 

1/27/2014 

54,200 

— 

$17.23 

1/27/2014 

58,536 

19,512(i) 

$22.53 

1/28/2015 

62,158 

62, 158(h) 

$24.47 

1/26/2016 

29,075 

87,227(iii) 

$29.61 

1/19/2017 

— 

107,085(v) 

$37.30 

1/24/2018 

— 

133,856(vi) 

$37.30 

1/24/2018 

47,830 

1,506,682 

Su 

144,780 

_ 

$11.74 

1/21/2009 

224,564 

— 

$  7.57 

1/27/2010 

143,008 

— 

$  8.39 

1/25/2011 

96,324 

— 

$12.20 

12/31/2011 

75,316 

— 

$13.28 

1/24/2012 

72,178 

— 

$13.86 

9/30/2012 

98,950 

— 

$12.16 

1/23/2013 

58,040 

— 

$17.23 

1/27/2014 

117,188 

— 

$17.23 

1/27/2014 

97,558 

32,520(i) 

$22.53 

1/28/2015 

62,158 

62, 158(h) 

$24.47 

1/26/2016 

33,229 

99,689(iii) 

$29.61 

1/19/2017 

— 

107,085(v) 

$37.30 

1/24/2018 

— 

267,712(vi) 

$37.30 

1/24/2018 

1,282 

40,392 

65 


Name 

Option  Awards(l) 

Stock  Awards 

Number  of 
Securities 
Underlying 
Unexercised 
Options 
(#) 

Exercisable 

(b) 

Number  of 
Securities 
Underlying 
Unexercised 
Options 
(#) 

Unexercisable 

(c) 

Option 

Exercise 

($) 

(d) 

Option 

Expiration 

Date 

(e) 

Number  of 
Shares  or  Units  of 
Stock  That 

Have  Not  Vested 
(#)(2) 

(g) 

Market  Value  of 
Shares  or  Units  of 
Stock  That 

Have  Not  Vested 
($) 

(h) 

Allan 

89,420 

_ 

$11.74 

1/21/2009 

198,144 

— 

$  7.57 

1/27/2010 

125,132 

— 

$  8.39 

1/25/2011 

84,284 

— 

$12.20 

12/31/2011 

75,316 

— 

$13.28 

1/24/2012 

86,582 

— 

$12.16 

1/23/2013 

76,322 

— 

$13.10 

5/15/2013 

58,040 

— 

$17.23 

1/27/2014 

117,188 

— 

$17.23 

1/27/2014 

81,300 

27,100(i) 

$22.53 

1/28/2015 

62,158 

62, 158(h) 

$24.47 

1/26/2016 

24,922 

74,766(iii) 

$29.61 

1/19/2017 

— 

332,292(iv) 

$29.61 

1/19/2017 

160,628(v) 

$37.30 

1/24/2018 

_ 

_ 

Creed 

39,541 

_ 

$12.16 

1/23/2013 

46,876 

— 

$17.23 

1/27/2014 

40,650 

13,550(i) 

$22.53 

1/28/2015 

41,439 

41, 439(h) 

$24.47 

1/26/2016 

17,861 

53,583(iii) 

$29.61 

1/19/2017 

— 

332,292(iv) 

$29.61 

1/19/2017 

— 

107,085(v) 

$37.30 

1/24/2018 

44,771 

1,410,337 

(1)  Except  as  provided  below,  all  options  and  SARs  listed  above  vest  at  a  rate  of  25%  per  year  over  the 
first  four  years  of  the  ten-year  option  term.  In  the  case  of  Mr.  Novak,  options  expiring  in  2011  with 
option  exercise  prices  of  $5.70  and  $8.62  were  granted  in  1996  and  1997  with  an  approximately  14  year 
term  and  vested  in  2006.  They  are  now  fully  vested.  With  respect  to  other  named  executive  officers, 
grants  with  expiration  dates  in  2009  and  2010  as  well  as  grants  expiring  on  September  30,  2012  for 
Mr.  Su,  May  15,  2013  for  Mr.  Allan  and  the  first  grant  listed  as  expiring  on  January  27,  2014  for 
Messrs.  Carucci,  Su  and  Allan  were  granted  with  100%  vesting  after  four  years. 

The  actual  vesting  dates  for  unexercisable  award  grants  are  as  follows: 

(i)  All  unexercisable  shares  vested  on  January  28,  2009. 

(ii)  One-half  of  the  unexercisable  shares  will  vest  on  each  of  January  26,  2009  and  2010. 

(iii)  One-third  of  the  unexercisable  shares  will  vest  on  each  of  January  19,  2009,  2010  and  2011. 

(iv)  All  unexercisable  shares  will  vest  on  January  19,  2012. 

(v)  One-fourth  of  the  unexercisable  shares  will  vest  on  each  of  January  24,  2009,  2010,  2011  and 

2012. 

(vi)  All  unexercisable  shares  will  vest  on  January  24,  2013. 

(2)  Amounts  in  this  column  represent  RSUs  that  have  not  vested.  Beginning  on  page  71  is  a  discussion  of 
how  these  restricted  units  are  awarded  and  their  terms. 


66 


reports.c 


OPTION  EXERCISES  AND  STOCK  VESTED 


The  table  below  shows  the  number  of  shares  of  YUM  common  stock  acquired  during  2008  upon 
exercise  of  stock  options  and  vesting  of  stock  awards  in  the  form  of  RSUs,  each  before  payment  of 
applicable  withholding  taxes  and  broker  commissions. 


5T 

Option  Awards 

Stock  Awards 

Number  of  Shares 
Acquired  on  Exercise 

(#) 

(b) 

Value  Realized 
on  Exercise 
($) 

(c) 

Number  of  Shares 
Acquired  on  Vesting 

(#)(1) 

(d) 

Value  realized 
on  Vesting 

($) 

(e) 

Novak 

_ 

_ 

165,396 

5,735,718 

Carucci 

109,616 

3,387,273 

6,839 

243,810 

Su 

— 

— 

60,268 

2,090,007 

Allan 

84,404 

2,345,798 

31,036 

1,106,433 

Creed 

23,411 

601,232 

28,460 

1,014,599 

(1)  These  amounts  represent  RSUs  that  became  vested  in  2008.  These  shares  will  be  distributed  in 
accordance  with  the  deferral  election  made  by  the  named  executive  officer  under  the  EID  Program. 
See  page  71  for  a  discussion  of  the  EID  Program. 


PENSION  BENEFITS 

The  table  below  shows  the  present  value  of  accumulated  benefits  payable  to  each  of  the  named 
executive  officers,  including  the  number  of  years  of  service  credited  to  each  such  named  executive  officer, 
under  the  YUM!  Brands  Retirement  Plan  (“Retirement  Plan”)  and  the  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  Pension 
Equalization  Plan  (“Pension  Equalization  Plan”)  or  the  YUM!  Brands  International  Retirement  Plan 
determined  using  interest  rate  and  mortality  rate  assumptions  consistent  with  those  used  in  the  Company’s 
financial  statements. 


Name 

Plan  Name 

(b) 

Number  of 

Years  of 
Credited  Service 

(#) 

(c) 

Present  Value  of 
Accumulated 
Benefit  (4) 

($) 

(d) 

Payments 

During 

Last  Fiscal  Year 
($) 

(e) 

Novak 

Retirement  Plan(l) 

22 

701,145 

_ 

Pension  Equalization  Plan(2) 

22 

13,820,312 

— 

Carucci 

Retirement  Plan(l) 

24 

430,022 

— 

Pension  Equalization  Plan(2) 

24 

2,234,001 

— 

Su 

International  Retirement 

Plan(3) 

19 

4,679,537 

Allan 

Retirement  Plan(l) 

5* 

158,962 

_ 

Pension  Equalization  Plan(2) 

5* 

930,916 

— 

Creed 

Retirement  Plan(l) 

2* 

53,793 

— 

Pension  Equalization  Plan(2) 

2* 

0 

— 

Under  these  plans,  Messrs.  Allan  and  Creed  only  receive  credited  service  for  their  eligible  U.S.  based 
service.  Mr.  Allan  was  based  outside  the  U.S.  for  11  years.  Mr.  Creed  was  based  outside  the  U.S.  for 
7  years.  During  that  time  neither  accrued  a  benefit  under  any  retirement  plan  based  upon  final 
compensation  or  years  of  service  like  these  plans.  In  addition,  under  the  terms  of  Mr.  Creed’s 
assignment  in  the  U.S.,  he  is  covered  under  an  Australian  defined  contribution  plan  related  to  his 
service  in  Australia  prior  to  his  transfer  to  the  U.S.  to  which  the  Company  continues  to  make  annual 
contributions.  While  the  Company  makes  contributions  to  the  Australian  plan,  Mr.  Creed  will  not 


67 


accrue  a  benefit,  except,  however,  he  did  accrue  a  benefit  for  two  years,  2002  and  2003,  under  a 
transition  provision  of  the  Retirement  Plan.  The  benefit  Mr.  Creed  earned  under  the  Pension 
Equalization  Plan  for  those  was  offset  by  the  Company’s  2002  and  2003  contributions  to  the 
Australian  Plan. 

(1)  YUM!  Brands  Retirement  Plan 

The  Retirement  Plan  and  the  YUM!  Brands  Inc.  Pension  Equalization  Plan  (discussed  below)  provide 
an  integrated  program  of  retirement  benefits  for  salaried  employees  that  were  hired  by  the  Company  prior 
to  October  1,  2001.  Both  plans  apply  the  same  formulas  (except  as  noted  below),  and  together  they  replace 
the  same  level  of  pre-retirement  pensionable  earnings  for  all  similarly  situated  participants.  The 
Retirement  Plan  is  a  tax  qualified  plan,  and  it  is  designed  to  provide  the  maximum  possible  portion  of  this 
integrated  benefit  on  a  tax  qualified  and  funded  basis. 

Benefit  Formula 

Benefits  under  the  Retirement  Plan  are  based  on  a  participant’s  Final  Average  Earnings  (subject  to 
the  limits  under  Internal  Revenue  Code  Section  401(a)(17))  and  service  under  the  plan.  Upon  termination 
of  employment,  a  participant’s  Normal  Retirement  Benefit  from  the  plan  is  equal  to 

A.  3%  of  Final  Average  Earnings  times  Projected  Service  up  to  10  years  of  service,  plus 

B.  1%  of  Final  Average  Earnings  times  Projected  Service  in  excess  of  10  years  of  service,  minus 

C.  .43%  of  Final  Average  Earnings  up  to  Social  Security  covered  compensation  multiplied  by 
Projected  Service  up  to  35  years  of  service 

the  result  of  which  is  multiplied  by  a  fraction  the  numerator  of  which  is  actual  service  as  of  date  of 
termination  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  participant’s  Projected  Service.  Projected  Service  is  the 
service  that  the  participant  would  have  earned  if  he  had  remained  employed  with  the  Company  until  his 
Normal  Retirement  Age  (generally  age  65). 

If  a  participant  leaves  employment  after  becoming  eligible  for  Early  or  Normal  Retirement,  benefits 
are  calculated  using  the  formula  above  except  that  actual  service  attained  at  the  participant’s  retirement 
date  is  used  in  place  of  Projected  Service. 

Final  Average  Earnings 

A  participant’s  Final  Average  Earnings  is  determined  based  on  his  highest  5  consecutive  years  of 
pensionable  earnings.  Pensionable  earnings  is  the  sum  of  the  participant’s  base  pay  and  annual  incentive 
compensation  from  the  Company,  including  amounts  under  the  YUM!  Leaders’  Bonus  Program.  In 
general  base  pay  includes  salary,  vacation  pay,  sick  pay,  short  term  disability  payments  and  commission 
payments.  Extraordinary  bonuses  and  lump  sum  payments  made  in  connection  with  a  participant’s 
termination  of  employment  are  not  included. 

Vesting 

A  participant  receives  a  year  of  vesting  service  for  each  year  of  employment  with  the  Company.  A 
participant  is  0%  vested  until  he  has  been  credited  with  at  least  5  years  of  vesting  service.  Upon  attaining 
5  years  of  vesting  service,  a  participant  becomes  100%  vested.  All  the  named  executive  officers  are  vested. 

Normal  Retirement  Eligibility 

A  participant  is  eligible  for  Normal  Retirement  following  the  later  of  age  65  or  5  years  of  vesting 
service. 


68 


Early  Retirement  Eligibility  and  Reductions 

A  participant  is  eligible  for  Early  Retirement  following  the  later  of  age  55  or  10  years  of  vesting 
service.  A  participant  who  has  met  the  requirements  for  Early  Retirement  and  who  elects  to  begin 
receiving  payments  from  the  plan  prior  to  age  62  will  receive  a  reduction  of  Vn  of  4%  for  each  month 
benefits  begin  before  age  62.  Benefits  are  unreduced  at  age  62. 

The  table  below  shows  when  each  of  the  named  executive  officers  will  be  eligible  or  became  eligible 
for  Early  Retirement  and  the  estimated  lump  sum  value  of  the  benefit  each  participant  would  receive  from 
the  YUM  plans  (both  qualified  and  non-qualified)  if  he  retired  from  the  Company  at  that  time  and 
received  a  lump  sum  payment  (except  however,  in  the  case  of  Messrs.  Novak  and  Su,  who  are  already  Early 
Retirement  eligible,  the  estimated  lump  sum  is  calculated  as  if  they  retired  on  December  31,  2008). 


Name 

Earliest 

Retirement 

Date 

Estimated  Lump  Sum 
from  the 

Qualified  Plan(l) 

Estimated  Lump  Sum 
from  the 

Non-Qualified  Plan(2) 

Total 

Estimated 
Lump  Sum 

Novak 

November  1,  2007 

938,096 

18,690,385 

19,628,481 

Carucci 

July  1,  2012 

755,289 

3,581,626 

4,336,915 

Su 

May  1,  2007 

— 

6,170,212 

6,170,212 

Allan 

May  1,  2010 

381,252 

2,185,530 

2,566,782 

Creed 

August  1,  2012 

115,501 

104,643 

220,144 

(1)  The  YUM!  Brands  Retirement  Plan 

(2)  Mr.  Su’s  benefit  is  paid  solely  from  the  YUM!  Brands  International  Retirement  Plan.  All  other 
non-qualified  benefits  are  paid  from  the  YUM!  Brands  Inc.  Pension  Equalization  Plan. 

The  estimated  lump  sum  values  in  the  table  above  are  calculated  assuming  no  increase  in  the 
participant’s  Final  Average  Earnings.  The  lump  sums  are  estimated  using  the  mortality  table  and  interest 
assumption  as  used  for  purposes  of  financial  accounting.  Actual  lump  sums  may  be  higher  or  lower 
depending  on  the  mortality  table  and  interest  rate  in  effect  at  the  time  of  distribution  and  the  participant’s 
Final  Average  Earnings  at  his  date  of  retirement. 

Termination  of  Employment  Prior  to  Retirement 

If  a  participant  terminates  employment,  either  voluntarily  or  involuntarily,  prior  to  meeting  eligibility 
for  Early  or  Normal  Retirement,  benefits  will  be  actuarially  reduced  from  age  65  to  his  early 
commencement  date  using  the  mortality  rates  in  the  YUM!  Brands  Retirement  Plan  and  an  interest  rate 
equal  to  7%  (e.g.,  this  results  in  a  62.97%  reduction  at  age  55).  In  addition,  the  participant  may  NOT  elect 
to  receive  his  benefit  in  the  form  of  a  lump  sum. 

Lump  Sum  Availability 

Lump  sum  payments  are  available  to  participants  who  meet  the  requirements  for  Early  or  Normal 
Retirement.  Participants  who  leave  the  Company  prior  to  meeting  the  requirements  for  Early  or  Normal 
Retirement  must  take  their  benefits  in  the  form  of  a  monthly  annuity  and  no  lump  sum  is  available.  When 
a  lump  sum  is  paid  from  the  plan,  it  is  calculated  based  on  actuarial  assumptions  for  lump  sums  required  by 
Internal  Revenue  Code  Section  417(e)(3)  (currently  this  is  the  annual  30-year  Treasury  rate  for  the 
2nd  month  preceding  the  date  of  distribution  and  the  gender  blended  1994  Group  Annuity  Reserving  Table 
as  set  forth  in  Revenue  Ruling  2001-62). 

(2)  YUM!  Brands  Inc.  Pension  Equalization  Plan 

The  YUM!  Brands  Inc.  Pension  Equalization  Plan  is  an  unfunded,  non-qualified  plan  that 
complements  the  YUM!  Brands  Retirement  Plan  by  providing  benefits  that  federal  tax  law  bars  providing 


69 


under  the  Retirement  Plan.  Benefits  are  generally  determined  and  payable  under  the  same  terms  and 
conditions  as  the  Retirement  Plan  (except  as  noted  below)  without  regard  to  federal  tax  limitations  on 
amounts  of  includible  compensation  and  maximum  benefits.  Benefits  paid  are  reduced  by  the  value  of 
benefits  payable  under  the  Retirement  Plan. 

Participants  who  earned  at  least  $75,000  during  calendar  year  1989  are  eligible  to  receive  benefits 
calculated  under  the  Retirement  Plan’s  pre-1989  formula,  if  this  calculation  results  in  a  larger  benefit  from 
the  YUM!  Brands  Inc.  Pension  Equalization  Plan.  Messrs.  Novak,  Carucci,  Allan  and  Creed  qualify  for 
benefits  under  this  formula.  This  formula  is  similar  to  the  formula  described  above  under  the  Retirement 
Plan  except  that  part  C  of  the  formula  is  calculated  as  follows: 

C.  1%%  of  an  estimated  primary  Social  Security  amount  multiplied  by  Projected  Service  up  to 
30  years 

Retirement  distributions  are  always  paid  in  the  form  of  a  lump  sum.  In  the  case  of  a  participant  whose 
benefits  are  payable  based  on  the  pre-1989  formula,  the  lump  sum  value  is  calculated  as  the  actuarial 
equivalent  to  the  participant’s  50%  Joint  and  Survivor  Annuity  with  no  reduction  for  survivor  coverage.  In 
all  other  cases,  lump  sums  are  calculated  as  the  actuarial  equivalent  of  the  participant’s  life  only  annuity. 
Participants  who  terminate  employment  prior  to  meeting  eligibility  for  Early  or  Normal  Retirement  must 
take  their  benefits  from  this  plan  in  the  form  of  a  monthly  annuity. 

(3)  YUM!  Brands  International  Retirement  Plan 

The  YUM!  Brands  International  Retirement  Plan  (the  “YIRP”)  is  an  unfunded,  non-qualified 
defined  benefit  plan  that  covers  certain  international  employees  who  are  designated  by  the  Company  as 
third  country  nationals.  Mr.  Su  is  eligible  for  benefits  under  this  Plan.  The  YIRP  provides  a  retirement 
benefit  similar  to  the  Retirement  Plan  except  that  part  C  of  the  formula  is  calculated  as  the  sum  of: 

a)  Company  financed  State  benefits  or  Social  Security  benefits  if  paid  periodically 

b)  The  actuarial  equivalent  of  all  State  paid  or  mandated  lump  sum  benefits  financed  by  the 
Company 

c)  Any  other  Company  financed  benefits  that  are  attributable  to  periods  of  pensionable  service  and 
that  are  derived  from  a  plan  maintained  or  contributed  to  by  the  Company  or  one  or  more  of  the 
group  of  corporations  that  is  controlled  by  the  Company. 

Benefits  are  payable  under  the  same  terms  and  conditions  as  the  Retirement  Plan  without  regard  to 
Internal  Revenue  Service  limitations  on  amounts  of  includible  compensation  and  maximum  benefits. 

(4)  Present  Value  of  Accumulated  Benefits 

For  all  plans,  the  Present  Value  of  Accumulated  Benefits  (determined  as  of  December  31,  2008)  is 
calculated  assuming  that  each  participant  is  eligible  to  receive  an  unreduced  benefit  payable  in  the  form  of 
a  single  lump  sum  at  age  62.  Also,  since  none  of  the  participants  have  actually  attained  eligibility  for  Early 
or  Normal  Retirement  (except  for  Messrs.  Novak  and  Su),  benefits  are  based  on  the  formula  applicable  to 
non-retirement  eligible  participants  as  discussed  above.  This  is  consistent  with  the  methodologies  used  in 
financial  accounting  calculations.  In  addition,  the  economic  assumptions  for  the  lump  sum  interest  rate, 
post  retirement  mortality,  and  discount  rate  are  also  consistent  with  those  used  in  financial  accounting 
calculations. 


NONQUALIFIED  DEFERRED  COMPENSATION 


Amounts  reflected  in  the  Nonqualified  Deferred  Compensation  table  below  are  provided  for  under 
the  Company’s  Executive  Income  Deferral  (“EID”)  Program,  an  unfunded,  unsecured  deferred 
compensation  plan.  For  each  calendar  year,  participants  are  permitted  under  this  program  to  defer  up  to 
85%  of  their  base  pay  and/or  100%  of  their  annual  incentive  award. 

Deferred  Program  Investments.  Amounts  deferred  under  the  EID  Program  may  be  invested  in  the 
following  phantom  investment  alternatives,  which  are  (12  month  investment  returns  are  shown  in 
parenthesis): 

•  YUM!  Stock  Fund  (-15.91%), 

•  YUM!  Discount  Stock  Fund  (-15.91%), 

•  S&P  500  Index  Fund  (-36.97%), 

•  Bond  Market  Index  Fund  (5.36%)  and 

•  Stable  Value  Fund  (3.67%). 

All  of  the  phantom  investment  alternatives  offered  under  the  EID  Program  are  designed  to  match  the 
performance  of  actual  investments,  that  is,  they  provide  market  rate  returns  and  do  not  provide  for 
preferential  earnings.  The  S&P  500  index  fund,  bond  market  index  fund  and  stable  value  fund  are  designed 
to  track  the  investment  return  of  like-named  funds  offered  under  the  Company’s  401(k)  Plan.  The  YUM! 
Stock  Fund  and  YUM!  Discount  Stock  Fund  track  the  investment  return  of  the  Company’s  common  stock. 
Participants  may  transfer  funds  between  the  investment  alternatives  on  a  quarterly  basis  except  (1)  funds 
invested  in  the  YUM!  Stock  Fund  or  YUM!  Discount  Stock  Fund  may  not  be  transferred  once  invested  in 
these  funds  and  (2)  a  participant  may  only  elect  to  invest  into  the  Discount  Stock  Fund  at  the  time  the 
annual  incentive  deferral  election  is  made.  In  the  case  of  the  Discount  Stock  Fund,  participants  who  defer 
their  annual  incentive  into  this  fund,  acquire  additional  phantom  shares  (called  restricted  stock  units 
(“RSUs”))  equal  to  33%  of  the  RSUs  received  with  respect  to  the  deferral  of  their  annual  incentive  into 
the  Discount  Stock  Fund  (the  additional  RSUs  are  referred  to  as  “matching  contributions”).  The  RSUs 
attributable  to  the  matching  contributions  are  allocated  on  the  same  day  the  RSUs  attributable  to  the 
annual  incentive  are  allocated,  which  is  the  same  day  we  make  our  annual  stock  appreciation  right  grants. 
Amounts  attributable  to  the  matching  contribution  under  the  YUM!  Discount  Stock  Fund  are  reflected  in 
column  (c)  below  as  contributions  by  the  Company  (and  represent  amounts  actually  credited  to  the  named 
executive’s  account  during  2008). 

RSUs  attributable  to  annual  incentive  deferrals  into  the  Discount  Stock  Fund  and  matching 
contributions  vest  on  the  second  anniversary  of  the  grant  (or  a  change  of  control  of  the  Company,  if 
earlier)  and  are  payable  as  shares  of  YUM  common  stock  pursuant  to  the  participant’s  deferral  election. 
Unvested  RSUs  held  in  a  participant’s  Discount  Stock  Fund  account  are  forfeited  if  the  participant 
voluntarily  terminates  employment  with  the  Company  within  two  years  of  the  deferral  date.  If  a  participant 
terminates  employment  involuntarily,  the  portion  of  the  account  attributable  to  the  matching  contributions 
is  forfeited  and  the  participant  will  receive  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of  the  original  amount 
deferred.  If  a  participant  dies  or  becomes  disabled  during  the  restricted  period,  the  participant  fully  vests 
in  the  RSUs.  Dividend  equivalents  are  accrued  during  the  restricted  period  but  are  only  paid  if  the  RSUs 
vest.  RSUs  held  by  a  participant  who  has  attained  age  65  with  five  years  of  service  vest  immediately.  In  the 
case  of  a  participant  who  has  attained  age  55  with  10  years  of  service,  RSUs  attributable  to  the  bonus 
deferrals  into  the  Discount  Stock  Fund  vest  immediately  and  RSUs  attributable  to  the  matching 
contribution  vest  pro  rata  during  the  period  beginning  on  the  date  of  grant  and  ending  on  the  first 
anniversary  of  the  grant  and  are  fully  vested  on  the  first  anniversary.  For  each  named  executive,  the 
number  of  RSUs  awarded  and  their  value  attributable  to  deferred  2008  annual  incentives  are  set  forth  at 


71 


columns  (f)  and  (j)  of  the  Grants  of  Plan-Based  Awards  table  on  page  63  and  are  discussed  in  further  detail 
at  footnotes  2  and  4  of  the  Summary  Compensation  Table  beginning  on  pages  59  and  60. 

Distributions.  When  participants  elect  to  defer  amounts  into  the  EID  Program,  they  also  select  when 
the  amounts  ultimately  will  be  distributed  to  them.  Distributions  may  either  be  made  in  a  specific  year — 
whether  or  not  employment  has  then  ended — or  at  a  time  that  begins  at  or  after  the  executive’s  retirement 
or  separation  or  termination  of  employment. 

Distributions  can  be  made  in  a  lump  sum  or  up  to  20  annual  installments.  Initial  deferrals  are  subject 
to  a  minimum  two  year  deferral.  In  general,  with  respect  to  amounts  deferred  after  2005  or  not  fully  vested 
as  of  January  1,  2005,  participants  may  change  their  distribution  schedule,  provided  the  new  elections 
satisfy  the  requirements  of  Section  409 A  of  the  Internal  Revenue  Code.  In  general,  Section  409A  requires 
that: 


•  Distribution  schedules  cannot  be  accelerated  (other  than  for  a  hardship) 

•  To  delay  a  previously  scheduled  distribution, 

•  A  participant  must  make  an  election  at  least  one  year  before  the  distribution  otherwise  would 
be  made,  and 

•  The  new  distribution  cannot  begin  earlier  than  five  years  after  it  would  have  begun  without  the 
election  to  re-defer. 

With  respect  to  amounts  deferred  prior  to  2005,  to  delay  a  distribution  the  new  distribution  cannot 
begin  until  two  years  after  it  would  have  begun  without  the  election  to  re-defer. 

Investments  in  the  YUM!  Stock  Fund  and  YUM!  Discount  Stock  Fund  are  only  distributed  in  shares 
of  Company  stock. 


(a) 

Executive 
Contributions 
in  Last  FY 

($)(1) 

(b) 

Registrant 
Contributions 
in  Last  FY 
($)(2) 

(c) 

Aggregate 
Earnings  in 
Last  FY 
($)  (3) 

(d) 

Aggregate 

Withdrawals/ 

Distributions 

($)  (4) 

(e) 

Aggregate 
Balance  at 
Last  FYE 
($)  (5) 

(0 

Novak 

4,742,892 

1,580,964 

(11,441,052) 

124,155 

64,915,011 

Carucci 

1,263,780 

294,882 

(1,100,283) 

16,043 

5,928,835 

Su 

1,719,900 

573,300 

(597,360) 

995,133 

3,400,916 

Allan 

— 

— 

(970,249) 

171,761 

5,104,620 

Creed 

396,060 

132,020 

(389,201) 

262,296 

2,174,738 

(1)  Amounts  in  this  column  reflect  amounts  that  were  also  reported  as  compensation  in  our  Summary 
Compensation  Table  filed  last  year  or  would  have  been  reported  as  compensation  in  our  Summary 
Compensation  Table  last  year  if  the  executive  were  a  named  executive  officer. 


(2)  Amounts  in  this  column  reflect  the  Company’s  contribution  to  the  EID  Program  which  is  discussed 
beginning  on  page  71.  The  amounts  represent  the  value  of  the  matching  contributions  on  RSUs 
awarded  to  executives  and  credited  to  their  deferral  account  under  the  program  in  2008  as  a  result  of 
their  election  to  defer  their  2007  annual  incentive  award  into  RSUs. 

(3)  Amounts  in  this  column  reflect  earnings  during  the  last  fiscal  year  on  deferred  amounts.  All  earnings 
are  based  on  the  investment  alternatives  offered  under  the  EID  Program  described  in  the  narrative 
above  this  table.  Since  these  earnings  are  market  based  returns,  they  are  not  reported  in  the  Summary 
Compensation  Table. 

(4)  All  amounts  shown  were  distributed  in  accordance  with  the  executive’s  deferral  election,  except  in  the 
case  of  the  following  amounts  distributed  to  pay  payroll  taxes  due  upon  vesting  of  RSUs  under  the 
EID  Program  during  the  year: 

Novak .  $  68,703 

Carucci .  $  6,986 

Allan .  $  16,399 

Creed  .  $  15,039 

(5)  Amounts  reflected  in  this  column  are  the  year-end  balances  for  each  executive  under  the  EID 
Program.  As  required  under  SEC  rules,  below  is  the  portion  of  the  year-end  balance  for  each 
executive  which  has  previously  been  reported  as  compensation  to  the  executive  in  the  Company’s 
Summary  Compensation  Table  for  2008  and  prior  years  or  would  have  been  reported  as  compensation 
if  the  executive  had  been  a  named  executive  officer  in  those  previous  years. 


Novak .  $30,821,265 

Carucci .  $  4,638,520 

Su .  $  4,215,900 

Allan .  $  2,463,695 

Creed  .  $  1,958,565 


The  difference  between  these  amounts  and  the  amount  of  the  year-end  balance  for  each  executive 
represents  the  total  aggregate  earnings  accumulated  under  the  program  with  respect  to  that  compensation. 

POTENTIAL  PAYMENTS  UPON  TERMINATION  OR  CHANGE  IN  CONTROL 

The  information  below  describes  and  quantifies  certain  compensation  that  would  become  payable 
under  existing  plans  and  arrangements  if  the  named  executive’s  employment  had  terminated  on 
December  31,  2008,  given  the  named  executive’s  compensation  and  service  levels  as  of  such  date  and,  if 
applicable,  based  on  the  Company’s  closing  stock  price  on  that  date.  These  benefits  are  in  addition  to 


73 


benefits  available  generally  to  salaried  employees,  such  as  distributions  under  the  Company’s  401(k)  Plan, 
retiree  medical  benefits,  disability  benefits  and  accrued  vacation  pay. 

Due  to  the  number  of  factors  that  affect  the  nature  and  amount  of  any  benefits  provided  upon  the 
events  discussed  below,  any  actual  amounts  paid  or  distributed  may  be  different.  Factors  that  could  affect 
these  amounts  include  the  timing  during  the  year  of  any  such  event,  the  Company’s  stock  price  and  the 
executive’s  age. 

Stock  Options  and  SAR  Awards.  If  one  or  more  named  executive  officers  terminated  employment  for 
any  reason  other  than  retirement,  death,  disability  or  following  a  change  in  control  as  of  December  31, 
2008,  they  could  exercise  the  stock  options  and  SARs  that  were  exercisable  on  that  date  as  shown  at  the 
Outstanding  Equity  Awards  at  Fiscal  Year-End  table  on  page  65,  otherwise  all  options  and  SARs,  pursuant 
to  their  terms,  would  have  been  forfeited  and  cancelled  after  that  date.  If  the  named  executive  had  retired, 
died  or  become  disabled  as  of  December  31,  2008,  exercisable  stock  options  and  SARs  would  remain 
exercisable  through  the  term  of  the  award.  Except  in  the  case  of  a  change  in  control,  described  below,  no 
stock  options  or  SARs  become  exercisable  on  an  accelerated  basis.  Benefits  a  named  executive  officer  may 
receive  on  a  change  of  control  are  discussed  below. 

Deferred  Compensation.  As  described  in  more  detail  beginning  at  page  71,  the  named  executives 
participate  in  the  EID  Program,  which  permits  the  deferral  of  salary  and  annual  incentive  compensation. 
The  last  column  of  the  Nonqualified  Deferred  Compensation  Table  on  page  73  reports  each  named 
executive’s  aggregate  balance  at  December  31,  2008.  The  named  executives  are  entitled  to  receive  their 
vested  amount  under  the  EID  Program  in  case  of  voluntary  termination  of  employment.  In  the  case  of 
involuntary  termination  of  employment,  they  are  entitled  to  receive  their  vested  benefit  and  the  amount  of 
the  unvested  benefit  that  corresponds  to  their  deferral.  In  the  case  of  death,  disability  or  retirement  after 
age  65,  they  or  their  beneficiaries  are  entitled  to  their  entire  account  balance  as  shown  in  the  last  column 
of  the  Nonqualified  Deferred  Compensation  table  on  page  73.  The  amounts  they  would  have  been  entitled 
to  in  case  of  a  voluntary  or  involuntary  termination  as  of  December  31,  2008  are  as  follows: 


Voluntary  Involuntary 

Termination  Termination 

($)  ($) 

Novak .  64,797,153  64,797,153 

Carucci .  4,381,451  5,560,979 

Su .  3,357,375  3,357,375 

Allan .  5,104,620  5,104,620 

Creed  .  715,459  1,243,539 


Payouts  to  the  executive  under  the  EID  Program  would  occur  in  accordance  with  the  executive’s 
elections.  In  the  case  of  amounts  deferred  after  2002,  such  payments  deferred  until  termination  of 
employment  or  retirement  will  not  begin  prior  to  six  months  following  the  executive’s  termination  of 
employment.  Executives  may  receive  their  benefit  in  a  lump  sum  payment  or  in  installment  payments  for 
up  to  20  years.  Each  of  the  named  executive  officers  has  elected  to  receive  payments  in  a  lump  sum. 

Pension  Benefits.  The  Pension  Benefits  Table  on  page  67  describes  the  general  terms  of  each  pension 
plan  in  which  the  named  executives  participate,  the  years  of  credited  service  and  the  present  value  of  the 
annuity  payable  to  each  named  executive  assuming  termination  of  employment  as  of  December  31,  2008. 
The  table  on  page  69  provides  the  present  value  of  the  lump  sum  benefit  payable  to  each  named  executive 
when  they  attain  eligibility  for  Early  Retirement  (i.e.,  age  55  with  10  years  of  service)  under  the  plans. 

Life  Insurance  Benefits.  For  a  description  of  the  supplemental  life  insurance  plans  that  provide 
coverage  to  the  named  executives,  see  the  All  Other  Compensation  Table  on  page  62.  If  the  named 
executives  had  died  on  December  31,  2008,  the  survivors  of  Messrs.  Novak,  Carucci,  Su,  Allan  and  Creed 
would  have  received  Company  paid  life  insurance  of  $3,500,000,  $1,283,000,  $1,667,000,  $1,667,000  and 


$1,147,000,  respectively,  under  this  arrangement.  Executives  and  all  other  salaried  employees  can  purchase 
additional  life  insurance  benefits  up  to  a  maximum  combined  company  paid  and  additional  life  insurance 
of  $3.5  million.  This  additional  benefit  is  not  paid  or  subsidized  by  the  Company  and,  therefore,  is  not 
shown  here. 

Change  in  Control.  Change  in  control  severance  agreements  are  in  effect  between  YUM  and  certain 
key  executives  (including  Messrs.  Novak,  Carucci,  Su,  Allan  and  Creed).  These  agreements  are  general 
obligations  of  YUM,  and  provide,  generally,  that  if,  within  two  years  subsequent  to  a  change  in  control  of 
YUM,  the  employment  of  the  executive  is  terminated  (other  than  for  cause,  or  for  other  limited  reasons 
specified  in  the  change  in  control  severance  agreements)  or  the  executive  terminates  employment  for 
Good  Reason  (defined  in  the  change  in  control  severance  agreements  to  include  a  diminution  of  duties 
and  responsibilities  or  benefits),  the  executive  will  be  entitled  to  receive  the  following: 

•  a  proportionate  annual  incentive  assuming  achievement  of  target  performance  goals  under  the 
bonus  plan  or,  if  higher,  assuming  continued  achievement  of  actual  Company  performance  until 
date  of  termination, 

•  a  severance  payment  equal  to  two  times  the  sum  of  the  executive’s  base  salary  and  the  target  bonus 
or,  if  higher,  the  actual  bonus  for  the  year  preceding  the  change  in  control  of  the  Company, 

•  outplacement  services  for  up  to  one  year  following  termination,  and 

•  a  “tax  gross-up  payment”  which,  in  the  event  an  executive  becomes  entitled  to  receive  a  severance 
payment  and  other  severance  benefits  and  such  severance  payment  and  benefits  are  subject  to  an 
excise  tax,  ensures  the  executive  will  be  in  the  same  after-tax  position  as  if  no  excise  tax  had  been 
imposed.  (Except,  however,  where  the  severance  payment  to  the  executive  will  generate  an  excise 
tax  but  the  total  severance  payment  does  not  exceed  by  more  than  10%  the  threshold  for  which  the 
excise  tax  becomes  payable,  then  no  gross-up  payment  will  be  made  and  the  executive’s  severance 
payment  will  be  reduced  to  the  threshold  to  ensure  no  excise  tax  is  payable.) 

In  addition,  to  the  payments  described  above  under  the  agreements,  upon  a  change  of  control: 

•  All  stock  options  and  SARs  held  by  the  executive  will  automatically  vest  and  become  exercisable. 

•  All  RSUs  under  the  Company’s  EID  Program  will  vest. 

The  change  in  control  severance  agreements  have  a  three-year  term  and  are  automatically  renewable 
each  January  1  for  another  three-year  term.  An  executive  whose  employment  is  not  terminated  within  two 
years  of  a  change  of  control  will  not  be  entitled  to  receive  any  severance  payments  under  the  change  in 
control  severance  agreements. 

Generally,  pursuant  to  the  agreements,  a  change  of  control  is  deemed  to  occur: 

(i)  if  any  person  acquires  20%  or  more  of  the  Company’s  voting  securities  (other  than  securities 
acquired  directly  from  the  Company  or  its  affiliates); 

(ii)  if  a  majority  of  the  Directors  as  of  the  date  of  the  agreement  are  replaced  other  than  in  specific 
circumstances;  or 

(iii)  upon  the  consummation  of  a  merger  of  the  Company  or  any  subsidiary  of  the  Company  other 
than  (a)  a  merger  where  the  Company’s  Directors  immediately  before  the  change  in  control 
constitute  a  majority  of  the  directors  of  the  resulting  organization,  or  (b)  a  merger  effected  to 
implement  a  recapitalization  of  the  Company  in  which  no  person  is  or  becomes  the  beneficial 
owner  of  securities  of  the  Company  representing  20%  or  more  of  the  combined  voting  power  of 
the  Company’s  then-outstanding  securities. 


75 


If  a  change  of  control  had  occurred  as  of  December  31,  2008,  the  following  payments,  or  other 


benefits  would  have  been  made. 

Novak 

Carucci 

Su 

Allan 

Creed 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

Annual  Incentive . 

4,057,200 

1,131,773 

1,609,598 

1,965,206 

907,494 

Severance  Payment . 

12,285,784 

3,877,560 

4,989,800 

4,781,900 

2,294,000 

Outplacement . 

25,000 

25,000 

25,000 

25,000 

25,000 

Excise  Tax  and  Gross-Up . 

— 

1,524,746 

— 

— 

— 

Accelerated  Vesting  of  Stock  Options 
and  SARs . 

3,537,577 

776,853 

917,087 

1,449,398 

1,142,164 

Accelerated  Vesting  of  RSU’s  . 

6,114,403 

1,542,893 

42,097 

— 

1,451,841 

Forfeiture  due  to  Modified  Cap . 

— 

— 

— 

(255,153) 

— 

Total . 

26,019,964 

8,878,825 

7,583,582 

7,966,351 

5,820,499 

DIRECTOR  COMPENSATION 

As  described  more  fully  below,  this  table  summarizes  compensation  paid  to  each  non-employee 
director  during  2008. 


(a) 

Fees 

Earned  or 
Paid  in 

Cash  ($) 
(b) 

Stock 

Awards 

($) 

(c) 

Option 
Awards 
($)  (1)  (2) 
(d) 

All  Other 
Compensation 
($)(3) 

(e) 

Total  ($) 

(f) 

Dorman,  Dave . 

_ 

135,000 

30,854 

2,000 

167,854 

Ferragamo,  Massimo  .... 

— 

135,000 

30,854 

— 

165,854 

Grissom,  David . 

.  .  .  75,000 

75,000 

30,854 

10,000 

190,854 

Hill,  Bonnie . 

.  .  .  67,500 

67,500 

30,854 

10,250 

176,104 

Holland,  Bob . 

— 

135,000 

30,854 

10,000 

175,854 

Langone,  Ken . 

— 

135,000 

30,854 

10,000 

175,854 

Linen,  Jonathan . 

— 

135,000 

30,854 

10,000 

175,854 

Nelson,  Thomas . 

— 

135,000 

30,854 

— 

165,854 

Ryan,  Thomas . 

— 

140,000 

30,854 

— 

170,854 

Trujillo,  Jackie  . 

— 

135,000 

30,854 

10,000 

175,854 

Walter,  Robert(4) . 

— 

227,500 

48,769 

10,000 

286,269 

(1)  Amounts  in  this  column  represent  the  compensation  costs  for  financial  accounting  purposes  for  the 
year  under  FAS  123R  for  annual  SARs  granted  in  fiscal  2008.  These  amounts  do  not  reflect  amounts 
paid  to  or  realized  by  the  director  for  fiscal  2008.  See  the  discussion  of  stock  awards  and  option 
awards  contained  in  Part  II,  Item  8,  “Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data”  of  the  Annual 
Report  in  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  at  Note  16,  “Stock  Options  and  Stock 
Appreciation  Rights.” 

(2)  At  December  31,  2008,  the  aggregate  number  of  options  and  SARs  awards  outstanding  for 
non-management  directors  was:  Mr.  Dorman  10,476  options,  11,927  SARs;  Mr.  Ferragamo  31,334 
options,  11,927  SARs;  Mr.  Grissom  15,470  options,  11,927  SARs;  Ms.  Hill  15,176  options,  11,927 
SARs;  Mr.  Holland  31,334  options,  11,927  SARs;  Mr.  Langone  0  options,  11,927  SARs;  Mr.  Linen 
10,476  options,  11,927  SARs;  Mr.  Nelson  0  options,  17,107  SARs;  Mr.  Ryan  19,414  options,  11,927 
SARs;  Ms.  Trujillo  26,422  options,  11,927  SARs;  Mr.  Walter  0  options,  5,494  SARs.  Mr.  Novak’s  and 
Mr.  Su’s  outstanding  awards  are  set  forth  on  page  65. 


(3)  Represents  amount  of  matching  charitable  contributions  made  on  behalf  of  the  director  under  the 
Company’s  matching  gift  program  and/or  the  amount  charitable  contribution  made  in  the  director’s 
name. 

(4)  Mr.  Walter  was  elected  to  the  Board  in  May  2008.  The  stock  retainer  and  SAR  award  for  2008  shown 
above  represent  his  pro  rata  stock  retainer  of  $67,500  and  SAR  award  of  $17,915  for  his  service  from 
May  to  November.  In  addition,  he  received  a  $25,000  stock  award  which  is  awarded  to  all  new 
directors  upon  joining  the  Board,  but  is  not  paid  until  they  leave  the  Board.  In  November  2008,  he 
received  the  regular  stock  retainer  of  $135,000  and  SAR  award  of  $30,854  in  consideration  of  his 
service  on  the  Board  for  2009. 

The  Company  uses  a  combination  of  cash  and  stock-based  incentive  compensation  to  attract  and 
retain  qualified  candidates  to  serve  on  the  Board.  In  setting  director  compensation,  the  Company 
considers  the  significant  amount  of  time  that  directors  expend  in  fulfilling  their  duties  to  the  Company  as 
well  as  the  skill  level  required  by  the  Company  of  members  of  the  Board.  Board  member  compensation 
was  scheduled  for  review  in  2008;  however,  the  Compensation  Committee  and  the  full  Board  determined 
that  Board  compensation  increases  would  not  be  considered. 

Employee  Directors.  Employee  directors  do  not  receive  additional  compensation  for  serving  on  the 
Board  of  Directors. 

Non-Employee  Directors  Annual  Compensation.  Each  director  who  is  not  an  employee  of  YUM 
receives  an  annual  stock  grant  retainer  with  a  fair  market  value  of  $135,000  and  an  annual  grant  of  vested 
SARs  to  buy  $125,000  worth  of  YUM  common  stock  at  a  price  equal  to  its  fair  market  value  on  the  date  of 
grant.  Directors  may  elect  to  receive  up  to  one-half  of  their  stock  retainer  in  cash.  Directors  may  also  defer 
payment  of  their  retainers  pursuant  to  the  Directors  Deferred  Compensation  Plan.  Deferrals  are  invested 
in  phantom  Company  stock  and  paid  out  in  shares  of  Company  stock.  Deferrals  may  not  be  made  for  less 
than  two  years.  In  recognition  of  the  added  duties  of  these  chairs,  the  Chairperson  of  the  Audit  Committee 
(Mr.  Grissom  in  2008)  receives  an  additional  $15,000  stock  retainer  annually  and  the  Chairperson  of  the 
Compensation  Committee  (Mr.  Ryan  in  2008)  receives  an  additional  $5,000  stock  retainer  annually. 

Initial  Stock  Grant  upon  Joining  Board.  Non-employee  directors  also  receive  a  one-time  stock  grant 
with  a  fair  market  value  of  $25,000  on  the  date  of  grant  upon  joining  the  Board,  distribution  of  which  is 
deferred  until  termination  from  the  Board. 

Stock  Ownership  Requirements.  Similar  to  executive  officers,  directors  are  subject  to  share  ownership 
requirements.  The  directors’  requirements  provide  that  directors  will  not  sell  any  of  the  Company’s 
common  stock  received  as  compensation  for  service  on  the  Board  until  the  director  has  ceased  being  a 
member  of  the  Board  for  one  year. 

Matching  Gifts.  To  further  YUM’s  support  for  charities,  non-employee  directors  are  able  to 
participate  in  the  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  Matching  Gifts  Program  on  the  same  terms  as  YUM’s  employees. 
Under  this  program,  the  YUM!  Brands  Foundation  will  match  up  to  $10,000  a  year  in  contributions  by  the 
director  to  a  charitable  institution  approved  by  the  YUM!  Brands  Foundation.  At  its  discretion,  the 
Foundation  may  match  director  contributions  exceeding  $10,000.  In  2008,  the  Foundation  matched  $10,250 
of  Ms.  Hill’s  contributions. 

Insurance.  We  also  pay  the  premiums  on  directors’  and  officers’  liability  and  business  travel  accident 
insurance  policies.  The  annual  cost  of  this  coverage  is  approximately  $2.5  million.  This  is  not  included  in 
the  tables  above  as  it  is  not  considered  compensation  to  the  directors. 


77 


EQUITY  COMPENSATION  PLAN  INFORMATION 


The  following  table  summarizes,  as  of  December  31,  2008,  the  equity  compensation  plans  under  which 
we  may  issue  shares  of  stock  to  our  directors,  officers  and  employees  under  the  1999  Long  Term  Incentive 
Plan  (“1999  Plan”),  the  1997  Long  Term  Incentive  Plan  (the  “1997  Plan”),  SharePower  Plan  and 
Restaurant  General  Manager  Stock  Option  Plan  (“RGM  Plan”). 


Number  of  Securities 


Plan  Category 

Number  of  Securities 
To  be  Issued  Upon 
Exercise  of 
Outstanding 
Options,  Warrants 
and  Rights 

Weighted-Average 
Exercise  Price  of 
Outstanding  Options, 
Warrants  and  Rights 

Remaining  Available  for 
Future  Issuance  Under 
Equity  Compensation 
Plans  (Excluding 
Securities  Reflected  in 
Column  (a)) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Equity  compensation  plans  approved  by 

security  holders . 

34,420,478(1) 

$  20.35(2) 

23,202,071(3) 

Equity  compensation  plans  not  approved 

by  security  holders(4) . 

2,661,531 

$  22.50(2) 

7,096,643 

Total  . 

37,082,009(1) 

$  20.55(2) 

30,298,714(3) 

(1)  Includes  6,487,980  shares  issuable  in  respect  of  RSUs,  performance  units  and  deferred  units. 

(2)  Weighted  average  exercise  price  of  outstanding  options  and  SARs  only. 

(3)  Includes  11,809,582  shares  available  for  issuance  of  awards  of  stock  units,  restricted  stock,  restricted 
stock  units  and  performance  share  unit  awards  under  the  1999  Plan. 

(4)  Awards  are  made  under  the  RGM  Plan. 


What  are  the  key  features  of  the  1999  Plan? 

The  1999  Plan  provides  for  the  issuance  of  up  to  70,600,000  shares  of  stock  as  non-qualified  stock 
options,  incentive  stock  options,  SARs,  restricted  stock,  restricted  stock  units,  performance  shares  or 
performance  units.  Only  our  employees  and  directors  are  eligible  to  receive  awards  under  the  1999  Plan. 
The  purpose  of  the  1999  Plan  is  to  motivate  participants  to  achieve  long  range  goals,  attract  and  retain 
eligible  employees,  provide  incentives  competitive  with  other  similar  companies  and  align  the  interest  of 
employees  and  directors  with  those  of  our  shareholders.  The  1999  Plan  is  administered  by  the 
Compensation  Committee  of  the  Board  of  Directors.  The  exercise  price  of  a  stock  option  grant  or  SAR 
under  the  1999  Plan  may  not  be  less  than  the  average  market  price  of  our  stock  on  the  date  of  grant  for 
years  prior  to  2008  or  the  closing  price  of  our  stock  on  the  date  of  the  grant  beginning  in  2008,  and  no 
options  or  SARs  may  have  a  term  of  more  than  ten  years.  The  options  and  SARs  that  are  currently 
outstanding  under  the  1999  Plan  generally  vest  over  a  one  to  four  year  period  and  expire  ten  years  from  the 
date  of  the  grant.  The  1999  Plan  was  approved  by  the  shareholders  in  May  1999,  and  they  approved  the 
plan  as  amended  in  2003  and  again  in  2008. 


What  are  the  key  features  of  the  1997  Plan? 

The  1997  Plan  provides  for  the  issuance  of  up  to  45,000,000  shares  of  stock.  Effective  January  1,  2002, 
only  restricted  shares  could  be  issued  under  this  plan.  This  plan  is  utilized  with  respect  to  payouts  on  shares 
from  our  deferral  plans  and  was  originally  approved  by  PepsiCo,  Inc.  as  the  sole  shareholder  of  the 
Company  in  1997,  prior  to  the  spin-off  of  the  Company  from  PepsiCo,  Inc.  on  October  6,  1997. 


What  are  the  key  features  of  the  SharePower  Plan? 

The  SharePower  Plan  provides  for  the  issuance  of  up  to  28,000,000  shares  of  stock.  The  SharePower 
Plan  allows  us  to  award  non-qualified  stock  options,  stock  appreciation  rights  (‘SARs1 2 3 4),  restricted  stock  and 


restricted  stock  units.  Employees,  other  than  executive  officers,  are  eligible  to  receive  awards  under  the 
SharePower  Plan.  The  SharePower  Plan  is  administered  by  the  Compensation  Committee  of  the  Board  of 
Directors.  The  exercise  price  of  a  stock  or  SAR  option  grant  under  the  SharePower  Plan  may  not  be  less 
than  the  closing  price  of  our  stock  on  the  date  of  the  grant  and  no  option  or  SAR  may  have  a  term  of  more 
than  ten  years.  The  options  that  are  currently  outstanding  under  the  SharePower  Plan  generally  vest  over  a 
one  to  four  year  period  beginning  on  the  date  of  grant.  The  SharePower  Plan  was  originally  approved  by 
PepsiCo,  Inc.  as  the  sole  shareholder  of  the  Company  in  1997,  prior  to  the  spin-off  of  the  Company  from 
PepsiCo,  Inc.  on  October  6,  1997. 

What  are  the  key  features  of  the  RGM  Plan? 

The  RGM  Plan  provides  for  the  issuance  of  up  to  30,000,000  shares  of  common  stock  at  a  price  equal 
to  or  greater  than  the  closing  price  of  our  stock  on  the  date  of  grant.  The  RGM  Plan  allows  us  to  award 
non-qualified  stock  options,  stock  appreciation  rights,  restricted  stock  and  restricted  stock  units. 
Employees,  other  than  executive  officers,  are  eligible  to  receive  awards  under  the  RGM  Plan.  The  purpose 
of  the  RGM  Plan  is  (i)  to  give  restaurant  general  managers  (‘RGMs‘)  the  opportunity  to  become  owners  of 
stock,  (ii)  to  align  the  interests  of  RGMs  with  those  of  YUM’s  other  shareholders,  (iii)  to  emphasize  that 
the  RGM  is  YUM’s  #1  leader,  and  (iv)  to  reward  the  performance  of  RGMs.  In  addition,  the  Plan 
provides  incentives  to  Area  Coaches,  Franchise  Business  Leaders  and  other  supervisory  field  operation 
positions  that  support  RGMs  and  have  profit  and  loss  responsibilities  within  a  defined  region  or  area. 
While  all  non-executive  officer  employees  are  eligible  to  receive  awards  under  the  RGM  plan,  all  awards 
granted  have  been  to  RGMs  or  their  direct  supervisors  in  the  field.  Grants  to  RGMs  generally  have  four 
year  vesting  and  expire  after  ten  years.  The  RGM  Plan  is  administered  by  the  Compensation  Committee  of 
the  Board  of  Directors,  and  the  Compensation  Committee  has  delegated  its  responsibilities  to  the  Chief 
People  Officer  of  the  Company.  The  Board  of  Directors  approved  the  RGM  Plan  on  January  20,  1998. 


79 


AUDIT  COMMITTEE  REPORT 


Who  serves  on  the  Audit  Committee  of  the  Board  of  Directors? 

The  members  of  the  Audit  Committee  are  J.  David  Grissom,  Chair,  Robert  Holland,  Jr.,  Kenneth  G. 
Langone,  Jonathan  S.  Linen  and  Thomas  C.  Nelson. 

The  Board  of  Directors  has  determined  that  each  member  of  the  Committee  is  “independent”  within 
the  meaning  of  the  applicable  rules  of  both  the  NYSE  and  the  SEC.  The  Board  of  Directors  has  also 
determined  that  each  member  of  the  Committee  is  financially  literate,  as  defined  under  the  rules  of  the 
NYSE.  All  Committee  members  likely  have  accounting  or  related  financial  management  expertise  as  such 
qualifications  are  defined  under  the  rules  of  the  NYSE.  The  Board  determined  that  J.  David  Grissom  has 
such  accounting  or  related  financial  management  expertise.  In  addition,  the  Board  determined  that 
J.  David  Grissom  is  an  “audit  committee  financial  expert”  within  the  meaning  of  the  rules  of  the  SEC. 

What  document  governs  the  activities  of  the  Audit  Committee? 

The  Audit  Committee  operates  under  a  written  charter  adopted  by  the  Board  of  Directors.  The 
Committee’s  responsibilities  are  set  forth  in  this  charter,  which  was  amended  and  restated  effective 
March  27,  2009  The  charter  is  reviewed  by  management  at  least  annually,  and  any  recommended  changes 
are  presented  to  the  Audit  Committee  for  review  and  approval.  The  charter  is  available  on  our  Web  site  at 
www.yum.  com/investors /governance . 

What  are  the  responsibilities  of  the  Audit  Committee? 

The  Audit  Committee  assists  the  Board  in  fulfilling  its  responsibilities  for  general  oversight  of  the 
integrity  of  the  Company’s  financial  statements,  the  adequacy  of  the  Company’s  system  of  internal  controls 
and  procedures  and  disclosure  controls  and  procedures,  the  Company’s  risk  management,  the  Company’s 
compliance  with  legal  and  regulatory  requirements,  the  independent  auditors’  qualifications  and 
independence  and  the  performance  of  the  Company’s  internal  audit  function  and  independent  auditors. 
The  Committee  has  sole  authority  over  the  selection  of  the  Company’s  independent  auditors  and  manages 
the  Company’s  relationship  with  its  independent  auditors  (who  report  directly  to  the  Committee).  The 
Committee  has  the  authority  to  obtain  advice  and  assistance  from  outside  legal,  accounting  or  other 
advisors  as  the  Committee  deems  necessary  to  carry  out  its  duties  and  receive  appropriate  funding,  as 
determined  by  the  Committee,  from  the  Company  for  such  advice  and  assistance. 

The  Committee  met  9  times  during  2008.  The  Committee  schedules  its  meetings  with  a  view  to 
ensuring  that  it  devotes  appropriate  attention  to  all  of  its  tasks.  The  Committee’s  meetings  generally 
include  private  sessions  with  the  Company’s  independent  auditors  and  with  the  Company’s  internal 
auditors,  in  each  case  without  the  presence  of  the  Company’s  management,  as  well  as  executive  sessions 
consisting  of  only  Committee  members.  The  Committee  also  meets  with  senior  management  from  time  to 
time.  In  addition  to  the  scheduled  meetings,  senior  management  confers  with  the  Committee  or  its  Chair 
from  time  to  time,  as  senior  management  deems  advisable  or  appropriate,  in  connection  with  issues  or 
concerns  that  arise  throughout  the  year. 

Management  is  responsible  for  the  Company’s  financial  reporting  process,  including  its  system  of 
internal  control  over  financial  reporting,  and  for  the  preparation  of  consolidated  financial  statements  in 
accordance  with  accounting  principles  generally  accepted  in  the  U.S.  The  Company’s  independent  auditors 
are  responsible  for  auditing  those  financial  statements  in  accordance  with  professional  standards  and 
expressing  an  opinion  as  to  their  material  conformity  with  U.S.  generally  accepted  accounting  principles 
and  for  auditing  the  effectiveness  of  the  Company’s  internal  control  over  financial  reporting.  The 
Committee’s  responsibility  is  to  monitor  and  review  the  Company’s  financial  reporting  process  and  discuss 
management’s  report  on  the  Company’s  internal  control  over  financial  reporting.  It  is  not  the  Committee’s 
duty  or  responsibility  to  conduct  audits  or  accounting  reviews  or  procedures.  The  Committee  has  relied, 


without  independent  verification,  on  management’s  representation  that  the  financial  statements  have  been 
prepared  with  integrity  and  objectivity  and  in  conformity  with  accounting  principles  generally  accepted  in 
the  U.S.  and  on  the  opinion  of  the  independent  auditors  included  in  their  report  on  the  Company’s 
financial  statements.  The  Committee  has  also  relied,  without  independent  verification,  on  management’s 
representation  that  the  Company’s  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  is  effective  and  on  the  opinion 
of  the  independent  auditors  included  in  their  report  on  the  Company’s  internal  control  over  financial 
reporting. 

What  matters  have  members  of  the  Audit  Committee  discussed  with  management  and  the  independent 
auditors? 

As  part  of  its  oversight  of  the  Company’s  financial  statements,  the  Committee  reviews  and  discusses 
with  both  management  and  the  Company’s  independent  auditors  all  annual  and  quarterly  financial 
statements  prior  to  their  issuance.  During  2008,  management  advised  the  Committee  that  each  set  of 
financial  statements  reviewed  had  been  prepared  in  accordance  with  accounting  principles  generally 
accepted  in  the  U.S.,  and  reviewed  significant  accounting  and  disclosure  issues  with  the  Committee.  These 
reviews  include  discussions  with  the  independent  auditors  of  matters  required  to  be  discussed  pursuant  to 
Statement  on  Auditing  Standards  No.  61  ( Communication  with  Audit  Committees ),  including  the  quality  (not 
merely  the  acceptability)  of  the  Company’s  accounting  principles,  the  reasonableness  of  significant 
judgments,  the  clarity  of  disclosures  in  the  financial  statements  and  disclosures  related  to  critical 
accounting  practices.  The  Committee  has  also  discussed  with  KPMG  LLP  matters  relating  to  its 
independence,  including  a  review  of  audit  and  non-audit  fees  and  the  written  disclosures  and  letter 
received  from  KPMG  LLP  required  by  applicable  requirements  of  the  Public  Company  Accounting 
Oversight  Board  regarding  KPMG  LLP’s  communications  with  the  Committee  concerning  independence. 
The  Committee  also  considered  whether  non-audit  services  provided  by  the  independent  auditors  are 
compatible  with  the  independent  auditors’  independence.  The  Committee  also  received  regular  updates, 
and  written  summaries  as  required  by  the  PCAOB  rules  (for  tax  services),  on  the  amount  of  fees  and  scope 
of  audit,  audit-related  and  tax  services  provided. 

In  addition,  the  Committee  reviewed  key  initiatives  and  programs  aimed  at  strengthening  the 
effectiveness  of  the  Company’s  internal  and  disclosure  control  structure.  As  part  of  this  process,  the 
Committee  continued  to  monitor  the  scope  and  adequacy  of  the  Company’s  internal  auditing  program, 
reviewing  staffing  levels  and  steps  taken  to  implement  recommended  improvements  in  internal  procedures 
and  controls.  The  Committee  also  reviews  and  discusses  legal  and  compliance  matters  with  management, 
and,  as  necessary  or  advisable,  the  Company’s  independent  auditors. 

Has  the  Audit  Committee  made  a  recommendation  regarding  the  audited  financial  statements  for  fiscal  2008? 

Based  on  the  Committee’s  discussions  with  management  and  the  independent  auditors  and  the 
Committee’s  review  of  the  representations  of  management  and  the  report  of  the  independent  auditors  to 
the  Board  of  Directors,  and  subject  to  the  limitations  on  the  Committee’s  role  and  responsibilities  referred 
to  above  and  in  the  Audit  Committee  Charter,  the  Committee  recommended  to  the  Board  of  Directors 
that  it  include  the  audited  consolidated  financial  statements  in  the  Company’s  Annual  Report  on 
Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  27,  2008  for  filing  with  the  SEC. 

Who  prepared  this  report? 

This  report  has  been  furnished  by  the  members  of  the  Audit  Committee: 

J.  David  Grissom,  Chairperson  Robert  Holland,  Jr. 

Kenneth  G.  Langone  Jonathan  S.  Linen 

Thomas  C.  Nelson 


81 


ADDITIONAL  INFORMATION 


Who  pays  the  expenses  incurred  in  connection  with  the  solicitation  of  proxies? 

Expenses  in  connection  with  the  solicitation  of  proxies  will  be  paid  by  us.  Proxies  are  being  solicited 
principally  by  mail,  by  telephone  and  through  the  Internet.  We  have  retained  Georgeson  Inc.  to  act  as  a 
proxy  solicitor  for  a  fee  estimated  to  be  $10,000,  plus  reimbursement  of  out-of-pocket  expenses.  In 
addition,  our  directors,  officers  and  regular  employees,  without  additional  compensation,  may  solicit 
proxies  personally,  by  e-mail,  telephone,  fax  or  special  letter.  We  will  reimburse  brokerage  firms  and  others 
for  their  expenses  in  forwarding  proxy  materials  to  the  beneficial  owners  of  our  shares. 

How  may  I  elect  to  receive  shareholder  materials  electronically  and  discontinue  my  receipt  of  paper  copies? 

YUM  shareholders  with  shares  registered  directly  in  their  name  who  received  shareholder  materials 
in  the  mail  may  elect  to  receive  future  annual  reports  and  proxy  statements  from  us  and  to  vote  their 
shares  through  the  Internet  instead  of  receiving  copies  through  the  mail.  We  are  offering  this  service  to 
provide  shareholders  with  added  convenience  and  to  reduce  Annual  Report  printing  and  mailing  costs. 

To  take  advantage  of  this  option,  shareholders  must  subscribe  to  one  of  the  various  commercial 
services  that  offer  access  to  the  Internet.  Costs  normally  associated  with  electronic  access,  such  as  usage 
and  telephone  charges,  will  be  borne  by  the  shareholder. 

To  elect  this  option,  go  to  www.amstock.com,  click  on  Shareholder  Account  Access,  log-in  and  locate 
the  option  to  Receive  Company  Mailing  via  e-mail.  Shareholders  who  elect  this  option  will  be  notified  by 
mail  how  to  access  the  proxy  materials  and  how  to  vote  their  shares  on  the  Internet  or  by  phone. 

If  you  consent  to  receive  future  proxy  materials  electronically,  your  consent  will  remain  in  effect 
unless  it  is  withdrawn  by  writing  our  Transfer  Agent,  American  Stock  Transfer  and  Trust  Company, 
59  Maiden  Lane,  New  York,  NY  10038  or  by  logging  onto  our  Transfer  Agent’s  Web  site  at 
www.amstock.com  and  following  the  applicable  instructions.  Also,  while  this  consent  is  in  effect,  if  you 
decide  you  would  like  to  receive  a  hard  copy  of  the  proxy  materials,  you  may  call,  write  or  e-mail  American 
Stock  Transfer  and  Trust  Company. 

I  share  an  address  with  another  shareholder,  and  we  received  only  one  paper  copy  of  the  proxy  materials. 

How  may  I  obtain  an  additional  copy  of  the  proxy  materials? 

The  Company  has  adopted  a  procedure  called  “householding”  which  has  been  approved  by  the  SEC. 
The  Company  and  some  brokers  household  proxy  materials,  delivering  a  single  Notice  and,  if  applicable, 
this  proxy  statement  and  Annual  Report,  to  multiple  shareholders  sharing  an  address  unless  contrary 
instructions  have  been  received  from  the  affected  shareholders  or  they  participate  in  electronic  delivery  of 
proxy  materials.  Shareholders  who  participate  in  householding  will  continue  to  access  and  receive  separate 
proxy  cards.  This  process  will  help  reduce  our  printing  and  postage  fees,  as  well  as  save  natural  resources. 
If,  at  any  time,  you  no  longer  wish  to  participate  in  householding  and  would  prefer  to  receive  a  separate 
proxy  statement,  or  if  you  are  receiving  multiple  copies  of  the  proxy  statement  and  wish  to  receive  only 
one,  please  notify  your  broker  if  your  shares  are  held  in  a  brokerage  account  or  us  if  you  hold  registered 
shares.  You  can  notify  us  by  sending  a  written  request  to  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.,  Investor  Relations, 
1441  Gardiner  Lane,  Louisville,  KY  40213  or  by  calling  Investor  Relations  at  1  (888)  439-4986  or  by 
sending  an  e-mail  to  yum.investor@yum.com. 

May  I  propose  actions  for  consideration  at  next  year’s  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders  or  nominate 
individuals  to  serve  as  directors? 

Under  the  rules  of  the  SEC,  if  a  shareholder  wants  us  to  include  a  proposal  in  our  proxy  statement 
and  proxy  card  for  presentation  at  our  2010  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders,  the  proposal  must  be 
received  by  us  at  our  principal  executive  offices  at  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.,  1441  Gardiner  Lane,  Louisville, 


Kentucky  40213  by  December  8,  2009.  The  proposal  should  be  sent  to  the  attention  of  Corporate 
Secretary. 

Under  our  By-laws,  certain  procedures  are  provided  that  a  shareholder  must  follow  to  nominate 
persons  for  election  as  directors  or  to  introduce  an  item  of  business  at  an  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders. 
These  procedures  provide  that  nominations  for  director  nominees  and/or  an  item  of  business  to  be 
introduced  at  an  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders  must  be  submitted  in  writing  to  our  Corporate  Secretary 
at  our  principal  executive  offices.  We  must  receive  the  notice  of  your  intention  to  introduce  a  nomination 
or  to  propose  an  item  of  business  at  our  2010  Annual  Meeting  no  later  than  90  days  in  advance  of  the  2010 
Annual  Meeting  if  it  is  being  held  within  30  days  before  or  after  the  anniversary  of  the  date  (May  21,  2009) 
of  this  year’s  Meeting.  For  any  other  meeting,  the  nomination  or  item  of  business  must  be  received  by  the 
tenth  day  following  the  date  of  public  disclosure  of  the  date  of  the  meeting. 

Our  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders  is  generally  held  on  the  third  Thursday  of  May.  Assuming  that 
our  2010  Annual  Meeting  is  held  on  schedule,  we  must  receive  notice  of  your  intention  to  introduce  a 
nomination  or  other  item  of  business  at  that  meeting  by  February  22,  2010. 

The  nomination  must  contain  the  following  information  about  the  nominee: 

•  name; 

•  age; 

•  business  and  residence  addresses; 

•  principal  occupation  or  employment; 

•  the  number  of  shares  of  common  stock  beneficially  owned  by  the  nominee; 

•  a  description  of  all  arrangements  or  understandings  between  such  shareholder  and  each  proposed 
nominee  and  any  other  person  or  persons  (including  their  names)  pursuant  to  which  the 
nomination(s)  are  to  be  made  by  such  shareholder; 

•  a  representation  that  such  shareholder  intends  to  appear  in  person  or  by  proxy  at  the  Annual 
Meeting  to  nominate  the  persons  named  in  its  notice; 

•  the  information  that  would  be  required  under  the  rules  of  the  SEC  in  a  proxy  statement  soliciting 
proxies  for  the  election  of  such  nominee  as  a  director;  and 

•  a  signed  consent  of  the  nominee  to  serve  as  a  director  of  the  Company,  if  elected. 

Notice  of  a  proposed  item  of  business  must  include: 

•  a  brief  description  of  the  substance  of,  and  the  reasons  for  conducting,  such  business  at  the  Annual 
Meeting; 

•  the  shareholder’s  name  and  address  as  they  appear  on  our  records; 

•  the  number  of  shares  of  common  stock  beneficially  owned  by  the  shareholder  (with  supporting 
documentation  where  appropriate); 

•  any  material  interest  of  the  shareholder  in  such  business; 

•  a  description  of  all  arrangements  or  understandings  between  such  shareholder  and  any  other  person 
or  persons  (including  their  names)  in  connection  with  the  proposal  of  such  business  by  such 
shareholder  and  any  material  interest  of  such  shareholder  in  such  business;  and 

•  a  representation  that  such  shareholder  intends  to  appear  in  person  or  by  proxy  at  the  Annual 
Meeting  to  bring  such  business  before  the  meeting. 


83 


The  Board  is  not  aware  of  any  matters  that  are  expected  to  come  before  the  2009  Annual  Meeting 
other  than  those  referred  to  in  this  proxy  statement.  If  any  other  matter  should  come  before  the  Annual 
Meeting,  the  individuals  named  on  the  form  of  proxy  intend  to  vote  the  proxies  in  accordance  with  their 
best  judgment. 

The  chairman  of  the  Meeting  may  refuse  to  allow  the  transaction  of  any  business,  or  to  acknowledge 
the  nomination  of  any  person,  not  made  in  compliance  with  the  foregoing  procedures. 

Bylaw  Provisions.  You  may  contact  YUM’s  Corporate  Secretary  at  the  address  mentioned  above  for 
a  copy  of  the  relevant  Bylaw  provisions  regarding  the  requirements  for  making  shareholder  proposals  and 
nominating  director  candidates. 


84 


Exhibit  A 


YUM!  BRANDS,  INC. 

EXECUTIVE  INCENTIVE  COMPENSATION  PLAN 

SECTION  1 
GENERAL 

1.1.  Purpose.  The  purpose  of  the  Yum!  Brands,  Inc.  Executive  Incentive  Plan  (the  “Plan”)  is  to 
promote  the  interests  of  Yum!  Brands,  Inc.  (the  “Company”  or  “Yum”)  and  its  shareholders  by 

(i)  motivating  executives,  by  means  of  performance-related  incentives,  to  achieve  financial  goals; 

(ii)  attracting  and  retaining  executives  of  outstanding  ability;  (iii)  strengthening  the  Company’s  capability 
to  develop,  maintain  and  direct  a  competent  executive  staff;  (iv)  providing  annual  incentive  compensation 
opportunities  which  are  competitive  with  those  of  other  major  corporations;  and  (v)  enabling  executives  to 
participate  in  the  growth  and  financial  success  of  the  Company. 

1.2.  Participation.  Subject  to  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  Plan,  the  Committee  shall  determine 
and  designate,  from  time  to  time,  from  among  the  Eligible  Employees,  those  persons  who  will  be  granted 
one  or  more  Awards  under  the  Plan,  and  thereby  become  “Participants”  in  the  Plan. 

1.3.  Definitions.  Capitalized  terms  in  the  Plan  shall  be  defined  as  set  forth  in  the  Plan  (including 
the  definition  provisions  of  Section  7  of  the  Plan). 

SECTION  2 
AWARDS 


2.1.  Grant  of  Awards. 

(a)  For  any  Performance  Period,  the  Committee  shall  determine  and  designate  those  Eligible 
Employees  (if  any)  who  shall  be  granted  Awards  for  the  period,  and  shall  establish,  with  respect  to  each 
Award,  (i)  a  Target  Amount,  expressed  as  a  percentage  of  the  recipient’s  base  salary  for  such  Performance 
Period;  (ii)  the  performance  goal(s)  for  the  Performance  Period  with  respect  to  the  Award;  (iii)  the 
payments  to  be  earned  with  respect  to  various  levels  of  achievement  of  the  performance  goal(s)  for  the 
Performance  Period;  and  (iv)  whether  the  Award  is  intended  to  satisfy  the  requirements  for  Performance- 
Based  Compensation.  For  any  Performance  Period  for  which  Awards  are  granted,  the  Committee  shall 
create  the  Award  Schedule,  and  the  determinations  required  for  Awards  intended  to  be  Performance- 
Compensation  shall  be  made  at  the  time  necessary  to  comply  with  such  requirements.  The  grant  of  an 
Award  to  any  Eligible  Employee  for  any  Performance  Period  shall  not  bestow  upon  such  Eligible 
Employee  the  right  to  receive  an  Award  for  any  other  Performance  Period. 

(b)  The  performance  goal(s)  to  be  established  with  respect  to  the  grant  of  any  Awards  shall  be  based 
upon  on  any  one  or  more  of  the  following  measures:  cash  flow,  earnings  per  share,  return  on  operating 
assets,  return  on  equity,  operating  profit,  net  income,  revenue  growth,  Company  or  system  sales, 
shareholder  return,  gross  margin  management,  market  share  improvement,  market  value  added,  restaurant 
development,  customer  satisfaction  or  economic  value  added.  Such  goals  may  be  particular  to  a  line  of 
business,  Subsidiary,  or  other  unit  or  may  be  based  on  the  Company  or  franchise  system  generally. 

2.2.  Determination  of  Award  Amount.  Payment  with  respect  to  Awards  for  each  Participant  for  a 
Performance  Period  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  Award  Schedule  established  by  the 
Committee,  subject  to  the  following: 

(a)  Prior  to  the  payment  with  respect  to  any  Award  designated  as  intended  to  satisfy  the 
requirements  for  Performance-Based  Compensation,  the  Committee  shall  certify  the  attainment  of 
the  performance  goal(s)  and  any  other  material  terms. 


A-l 


(b)  In  the  sole  discretion  of  the  Committee,  the  Award  for  each  Participant  may  be  limited  to 
the  Participant’s  Target  Amount  multiplied  by  the  percent  attainment  (determined  in  accordance  with 
the  applicable  Award  Schedule),  subject  to  the  following: 

(i)  Subject  to  Section  3  and  the  provisions  of  this  subsection  2.2,  the  Committee  may  adjust 
such  Award  for  individual  performance  on  the  basis  of  such  quantitative  and  qualitative 
performance  measures  and  evaluations  as  it  deems  appropriate.  The  Committee  may  make  such 
adjustments  as  it  deems  appropriate  in  the  case  of  any  Participant  whose  position  with  the 
Company  has  changed  during  the  applicable  Performance  Period. 

(ii)  The  Committee  shall  have  the  discretion  to  adjust  performance  goals  and  the 
methodology  used  to  measure  the  determination  of  the  degree  of  attainment  of  such  goals; 
provided,  however,  that,  to  the  extent  required  by  the  requirements  applicable  to  Performance- 
Based  Compensation,  any  Award  designated  as  intended  to  satisfy  the  requirements  for 
Performance-Based  Compensation  may  not  be  adjusted  under  this  paragraph  (b)  or  otherwise  in 
a  manner  that  increases  the  value  of  such  Award.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  by  the 
Committee,  the  Committee  shall  retain  the  discretion  to  adjust  such  Awards  in  a  manner  that 
does  not  increase  such  Awards. 

(c)  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  the  Plan,  in  no  event  will  a  Participant  become 
eligible  for  payment  for  an  Award  for  any  calendar  year  in  excess  of  $10,000,000. 

(d)  No  segregation  of  any  moneys  or  the  creation  of  any  trust  or  the  making  of  any  special 
deposit  shall  be  required  in  connection  with  any  Awards  made  or  to  be  made  under  the  Plan. 

2.3.  Payment  of  Awards.  Subject  to  Sections  2.5  and  3,  the  amount  earned  with  respect  to  any 
Award  shall  be  paid  in  cash  at  such  time  as  is  determined  by  the  Committee;  provided,  however,  that 
unless  otherwise  provided  by  the  Committee,  such  payment  shall  be  made  no  later  than  the  fifteenth  day  of 
the  third  month  of  the  calendar  year  following  the  calendar  year  in  which  the  applicable  Performance 
Period  ends.  If  a  Participant  to  whom  an  Award  has  been  made  dies  prior  to  the  payment  of  the  Award, 
such  payment  shall  be  delivered  to  the  Participant’s  legal  representative  or  to  such  other  person  or  persons 
as  shall  be  determined  by  the  Committee.  The  Company  shall  have  the  right  to  deduct  from  all  amounts 
payable  under  the  Plan  any  taxes  required  by  law  to  be  withheld  with  respect  thereto;  provided,  however, 
that  to  the  extent  provided  by  the  Committee,  any  payment  under  the  Plan  may  be  deferred  and  to  the 
extent  deferred,  may  be  credited  with  an  interest  or  earnings  factor  as  determined  by  the  Committee. 

2.4.  Return  of  Overpayments.  If  the  amount  paid  with  respect  to  an  Award  granted  after 
December  31,  2008  is  based  on  the  attainment  of  a  level  of  objective  performance  goals  that  is  later 
determined  to  have  been  inaccurate,  such  inaccuracy  was  caused  by  misconduct  by  an  employee  of  the 
Company  or  a  Subsidiary,  and  as  a  result  the  amount  paid  with  respect  to  the  Award  is  greater  than  it 
should  have  been,  then: 

(1)  The  Participant  (regardless  of  whether  then  employed)  whose  misconduct  caused  the 
inaccuracy  will  be  required  to  repay  the  excess. 

(2)  The  Committee  administering  the  Plan  may  require  an  active  or  former  Participant 
(regardless  of  whether  then  employed)  to  repay  the  excess  previously  received  by  that  Participant  if 
the  Committee  concludes  that  the  repayment  is  necessary  to  prevent  the  Participant  from  unfairly 
benefiting  from  the  inaccuracy.  However,  repayment  under  this  paragraph  (2)  shall  apply  to  an  active 
or  former  Participant  only  if  the  Committee  reasonably  determines  that,  prior  to  the  time  the  amount 
was  paid  (or,  if  payment  of  the  amount  is  electively  deferred  by  the  Participant,  at  the  time  the  amount 
would  have  been  paid  in  the  absence  of  the  deferral),  such  Participant  knew  or  should  have  known 
that  the  amount  was  greater  than  it  should  have  been  by  reason  of  the  inaccuracy.  Further,  the  amount 
to  be  repaid  by  the  Participant  may  not  be  greater  than  the  excess  of  (i)  the  amount  paid  to  the 
Participant  over  (ii)  the  amount  that  would  have  been  paid  to  a  Participant  in  the  absence  of  the 


inaccuracy,  provided  that,  in  determining  the  amount  under  this  clause  (ii),  the  Committee  may  take 
into  account  only  the  inaccuracy  of  which  the  Participant  knew  or  should  have  known,  and  which  the 
Participant  knew  or  should  have  known  was  caused  by  misconduct. 

Instead  of  (or  in  addition  to)  requiring  repayment,  the  Committee  may  adjust  a  Participant’s  future 
compensation  and  the  Company  and/or  Subsidiary  shall  be  entitled  to  set-off  against  the  amount  of  any 
such  gain  any  amount  owed  to  the  Participant  by  the  Company  and/or  Subsidiary.  For  this  purpose,  the 
term  “misconduct”  means  fraudulent  or  illegal  conduct  or  omission  that  is  knowing  or  intentional. 
However,  the  foregoing  provisions  of  this  subsection  2.4  shall  not  apply  to  any  reductions  in  Awards  made 
after  a  Change  in  Control  (as  defined  in  the  Yum!  Brands,  Inc.  Long  Term  Incentive  Plan)  to  the  extent 
that  Awards  were  granted  before  a  Change  in  Control. 

2.5  Termination  of  Employment.  Except  to  the  extent  otherwise  provided  by  the  Committee,  if  a 
Participant’s  Date  of  Termination  with  respect  to  any  Award  occurs  prior  to  the  last  day  of  the 
Performance  Period  for  the  Award,  then,  except  in  the  case  of  death,  disability  or  normal  retirement 
(determined  in  accordance  with  the  qualified  retirement  plans  of  the  Company)  or  except  as  provided  in 
Section  3,  the  Participant  shall  forfeit  the  Award.  Except  to  the  extent  otherwise  provided  by  the 
Committee,  if  a  Participant’s  Date  of  Termination  due  to  the  death  or  disability  occurs  prior  to  the  last  day 
of  the  Performance  Period  for  the  Award,  then  the  amount  earned  with  respect  to  any  such  Award  for  the 
applicable  Performance  Period  shall  be  determined  by  the  Committee  in  its  sole  discretion  and  shall  be 
paid  in  cash  as  soon  as  administratively  possible  following  such  Date  of  Termination;  provided,  however, 
that  such  payment  shall  be  made  no  later  than  the  fifteenth  day  of  the  third  month  of  the  calendar  year 
following  the  calendar  year  in  which  the  Date  of  Termination  occurs.  Except  to  the  extent  otherwise 
provided  by  the  Committee,  if  a  Participant’s  Date  of  Termination  due  to  the  retirement  of  the  Participant 
occurs  prior  to  the  last  day  of  the  Performance  Period  for  the  Award,  then  the  amount  earned  with  respect 
to  any  such  Award  for  the  applicable  Performance  Period  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with 
Section  2.2  and  paid  out  at  the  time  specified  in  Section  2.3. 

SECTION  3 

CHANGE  IN  CONTROL 
BENEFITS  ON  CHANGE  IN  CONTROL. 

Except  to  the  extent  otherwise  provided  by  the  Committee,  within  ten  (10)  business  days  following  the 
occurrence  of  a  Change  in  Control  (as  defined  in  the  Yum!  Brands,  Inc.  Long  Term  Incentive  Plan),  each 
individual  who  has  been  granted  an  Award  pursuant  to  the  Plan  shall  be  paid  an  amount  equal  to  (I)  to  the 
greater  of  (A)  the  Participant’s  target  award  for  the  period  in  which  the  Change  in  Control  occurs  and 
(B)  the  award  the  Participant  would  have  earned  for  such  period,  assuming  continued  achievement  of  the 
relevant  performance  goals  at  the  rate  achieved  as  of  the  date  of  the  Change  in  Control,  multiplied  by 
(II)  a  fraction  the  numerator  of  which  is  the  number  of  days  in  the  Performance  Period  which  have  elapsed 
as  of  the  Change  in  Control,  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  number  of  days  in  the  Performance 
Period.  Any  former  Participant  in  the  Plan  who  was  granted  an  Award  pursuant  to  the  Plan  for  the  period 
in  which  the  Change  in  Control  occurs  and  whose  employment  with  the  Company  was  involuntarily 
terminated  (other  than  for  cause)  during  a  Potential  Change  in  Control  (as  defined  in  the  Yum! 
Brands,  Inc.  Long  Term  Incentive  Plan)  and  within  one  year  preceding  the  occurrence  of  a  Change  in 
Control  shall  likewise  be  paid  the  amount  of  such  annual  incentive  award  as  if  Yum  had  fully  achieved  the 
applicable  performance  target(s)  for  the  Performance  Period  in  which  the  Change  in  Control  occurs  paid 
within  ten  (10)  business  days  following  the  occurrence  of  the  applicable  Change  in  Control. 

SECTION  4 
MISCELLANEOUS 

4.1.  Transferability.  Any  payment  to  which  a  Participant  may  be  entitled  under  the  Plan  shall  be  free 
from  the  control  or  interference  of  any  creditor  of  such  Participant  and  shall  not  be  subject  to  attachment 


A-3 


or  susceptible  of  anticipation  or  alienation.  The  interest  of  a  Participant  shall  not  be  transferable  except  by 
will  or  the  laws  of  descent  and  distribution. 

4.2.  No  Right  To  Participate;  Employment.  Neither  the  adoption  of  the  Plan  nor  any  action  of  the 
Committee  shall  be  deemed  to  give  any  Eligible  Employee  any  right  to  be  designated  as  a  Participant 
under  the  Plan.  Further,  nothing  contained  in  the  Plan,  nor  any  action  by  the  Committee  or  any  other 
person  hereunder,  shall  be  deemed  to  confer  upon  any  Eligible  Employee  any  right  of  continued 
employment  with  the  Company  or  any  Subsidiary  or  Affiliate  or  to  limit  or  diminish  in  any  way  the  right  of 
the  Company  or  any  Subsidiary  or  Affiliate  to  terminate  his  or  her  employment  at  any  time  with  or  without 
cause. 

4.3.  Nonexclusivity  of  the  Plan.  This  Plan  is  not  intended  to  and  shall  not  preclude  the  Board  from 
adopting,  continuing,  amending  or  terminating  such  additional  compensation  arrangements  as  it  deems 
desirable  for  Participants  under  this  Plan,  including,  without  limitation,  any  thrift,  savings,  investment, 
stock  purchase,  stock  option,  profit  sharing,  pension,  retirement,  insurance  or  other  incentive  plan. 

SECTION  5 
COMMITTEE 

5.1.  Administration.  The  authority  to  control  and  manage  the  operation  and  administration  of  the 
Plan  shall  be  vested  in  a  committee  (the  “Committee”)  in  accordance  with  this  subsection  5.1.  The 
Committee  shall  be  selected  by  the  Board,  and  shall  consist  solely  of  two  or  more  non-employee  members 
of  the  Board. 

5.2.  Powers  of  Committee.  The  Committee’s  administration  of  the  Plan  shall  be  subject  to  the 
following: 

(a)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  Plan,  the  Committee  will  have  the  authority  and  discretion  to 
select  from  among  the  Eligible  Employees  those  persons  who  shall  receive  Awards,  to  determine  the 
time  or  times  of  payment  with  respect  to  the  Awards,  to  establish  the  terms,  conditions,  performance 
goals,  restrictions,  and  other  provisions  of  such  Awards,  and  (subject  to  the  restrictions  imposed  by 
Section  6)  to  cancel  or  suspend  Awards. 

(b)  The  Committee  will  have  the  authority  and  discretion  to  interpret  the  Plan,  to  establish, 
amend,  and  rescind  any  rules  and  regulations  relating  to  the  Plan,  to  determine  the  terms  and 
provisions  of  any  Award  made  pursuant  to  the  Plan,  and  to  make  all  other  determinations  that  may  be 
necessary  or  advisable  for  the  administration  of  the  Plan. 

(c)  Any  interpretation  of  the  Plan  by  the  Committee  and  any  decision  made  by  it  under  the  Plan 
is  final  and  binding  on  all  persons. 

(d)  In  controlling  and  managing  the  operation  and  administration  of  the  Plan,  the  Committee 
shall  take  action  in  a  manner  that  conforms  to  the  articles  and  by-laws  of  the  Company,  and  applicable 
state  corporate  law. 

5.3.  Delegation  by  Committee.  Except  to  the  extent  prohibited  by  applicable  law  and  except  as  may 
otherwise  be  required  for  Awards  intended  to  be  Performance-Based  Compensation,  the  Committee  may 
allocate  all  or  any  portion  of  its  responsibilities  and  powers  to  any  one  or  more  of  its  members  and  may 
delegate  all  or  any  part  of  its  responsibilities  and  powers  to  any  person  or  persons  selected  by  it.  Any  such 
allocation  or  delegation  may  be  revoked  by  the  Committee  at  any  time.  Until  action  to  the  contrary  is 
taken  by  the  Board  or  Committee,  the  Committee’s  authority  with  respect  to  matters  concerning 
Participants  below  the  Partners  Council  or  Executive  Officer  level  is  delegated  to  the  Chief  Executive 
Officer  and  the  Chief  People  Officer  of  the  Company. 

5.4.  Information  to  be  Furnished  to  Committee.  The  Company,  the  Subsidiaries,  and  the  Affiliates 
shall  furnish  the  Committee  with  such  data  and  information  as  it  determines  may  be  required  for  it  to 


discharge  its  duties.  The  records  of  the  Company,  the  Subsidiaries,  and  the  Affiliates  as  to  an  employee’s 
or  Participant’s  employment,  termination  of  employment,  leave  of  absence,  reemployment  and 
compensation  shall  be  conclusive  on  all  persons  unless  determined  to  be  incorrect.  Participants  and  other 
persons  entitled  to  benefits  under  the  Plan  must  furnish  the  Committee  such  evidence,  data  or  information 
as  the  Committee  considers  desirable  to  carry  out  the  terms  of  the  Plan. 

SECTION  6 

AMENDMENT  AND  TERMINATION 

The  Board  may,  at  any  time,  amend  or  terminate  the  Plan,  provided  that  no  amendment  or 
termination  may,  in  the  absence  of  written  consent  to  the  change  by  the  affected  Participant  (or,  if  the 
Participant  is  not  then  living,  the  affected  beneficiary),  adversely  affect  the  rights  of  any  Participant  or 
beneficiary  under  any  Award  granted  under  the  Plan  prior  to  the  date  such  amendment  is  adopted  by  the 
Board. 


SECTION  7 
DEFINED  TERMS 

In  addition  to  the  other  definitions  contained  herein,  the  following  definitions  shall  apply  for  purposes 
of  the  Plan: 

(a)  “Affiliate”  means  any  corporation  or  other  entity  which  is  not  a  Subsidiary  but  as  to  which 
the  Company  possesses  a  direct  or  indirect  ownership  interest  and  has  power  to  exercise  management 
control. 

(b)  “Award”  with  respect  to  a  Performance  Period  means  a  right  to  receive  cash  payments  that 
are  contingent  on  the  achievement  of  performance  goals  determined  in  accordance  with  Section  2. 

(c)  “Award  Schedule”  means  the  schedule  created  by  the  Committee  for  any  Performance 
Period  that  sets  forth  the  performance  goals  and  the  amounts  (or  the  formula  for  determining  the 
amounts)  of  any  payments  earned  pursuant  to  the  Awards  granted  for  that  period. 

(d)  “Beneficial  Owner”  shall  have  the  meaning  set  forth  in  Rule  13d-3  under  the  Exchange  Act 
of  1934,  as  amended  from  time  to  time,  except  that  a  Person  shall  not  be  deemed  to  be  the  Beneficial 
Owner  of  any  securities  which  are  properly  filed  on  a  Form  13-G. 

(e)  “Board”  means  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Company. 

(f)  A  Participant’s  “Date  of  Termination”  with  respect  to  any  Award  shall  be  the  first  day 
occurring  on  or  after  the  Grant  Date  for  the  Award  on  which  the  Participant  is  not  employed  by  the 
Company,  any  Subsidiary,  or  any  Affiliate,  regardless  of  the  reason  for  the  termination  of 
employment;  provided  that  a  termination  of  employment  shall  not  be  deemed  to  occur  by  reason  of  a 
transfer  of  the  Participant  between  the  Company  and  a  Subsidiary  or  an  Affiliate,  between  a 
Subsidiary  and  an  Affiliate,  or  between  two  Subsidiaries  or  Affiliates;  and  further  provided  that  the 
Participant’s  employment  shall  not  be  considered  terminated  while  the  Participant  is  on  a  leave  of 
absence  from  the  Company,  a  Subsidiary,  or  an  Affiliate  approved  by  the  Participant’s  employer.  If,  as 
a  result  of  a  sale  or  other  transaction,  the  Participant’s  employer  ceases  to  be  a  Subsidiary  or  Affiliate 
(and  the  Participant’s  employer  is  or  becomes  an  entity  that  is  separate  from  the  Company),  and  the 
Participant  is  not,  at  the  end  of  the  30-day  period  following  the  transaction,  employed  by  the  Company 
or  an  entity  that  is  then  a  Subsidiary  or  Affiliate,  then  the  occurrence  of  such  transaction  shall  be 
treated  as  the  Participant’s  Date  of  Termination  caused  by  the  Participant  being  discharged  by  the 
employer. 

(g)  “Eligible  Employee”  means  any  member  of  the  Partners  Council  or  other  member  of  senior 
management  of  the  Company. 


A-5 


(h)  “Grant  Date”  with  respect  to  any  Award  for  any  Participant  means  the  date  on  which  the 
Award  is  granted  to  the  Participant  in  accordance  with  subsection  2.1. 

(i)  “Participant”  means  an  Eligible  Employee  who  is  selected  by  the  Committee  to  receive  one 
or  more  Awards  under  the  Plan. 

(j)  “Performance-Based  Compensation”  means  amounts  satisfying  the  applicable  requirements 
imposed  by  section  162(m)  of  the  Internal  Revenue  Code  of  1986,  as  amended,  and  the  regulations 
thereunder,  with  respect  to  that  term. 

(k)  “Performance  Period”  with  respect  to  any  Award  means  the  period  over  which  achievement 
of  performance  goals  is  to  be  measured,  as  established  by  the  Committee  at  or  prior  to  the  Grant  Date 
of  the  Award. 

(l)  “Person”  shall  have  the  meaning  given  in  Section  3(a)(9)  of  the  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  as 
amended,  as  modified  and  used  in  Section  13(d)  and  14(d)  thereof,  except  that  such  term  shall  not 
include  (i)  the  Company  or  any  of  its  Affiliates,  (ii)  a  trustee  or  other  fiduciary  holding  securities 
under  an  employee  benefit  plan  of  the  Company  or  any  of  its  Subsidiaries,  (iii)  an  underwriter 
temporarily  holding  securities  pursuant  to  an  offering  of  such  securities,  or  (iv)  a  corporation  owned, 
directly  or  indirectly,  by  the  shareholders  of  the  Company  in  substantially  the  same  proportions  as 
their  ownership  of  stock  of  the  Company. 

(m)  “Subsidiary”  means  any  corporation  partnership,  joint  venture  or  other  entity  during  any 
period  in  which  at  least  a  fifty  percent  voting  or  profits  interest  is  owned,  directly  or  indirectly,  by  the 
Company  (or  by  any  entity  that  is  a  successor  to  the  Company),  and  any  other  business  venture 
designated  by  the  Committee  in  which  the  Company  (or  any  entity  that  is  a  successor  to  the  Company) 
has  a  significant  interest,  as  determined  in  the  discretion  of  the  Committee. 

(n)  “Target  Amount”  means  the  percentage  of  a  Participant’s  base  salary  for  a  Performance 
Period  as  established  by  the  Committee  pursuant  to  subsection  2.1. 


A-6 


YUM!  Brands,  Inc. 

Charter  of  the  Audit  Committee  of  the  Board  of  Directors 
(As  Amended  and  Restated  Effective  as  of  March  27,  2009) 


Exhibit  B 


I.  Name 

There  will  be  a  committee  of  the  Board  of  Directors  (the  “Board”)  of  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  (the 
“Company”)  to  be  known  as  the  Audit  Committee  (the  “Committee”). 

II.  Committee  Purpose 

The  Committee  is  appointed  by  the  Board  to  assist  the  Board  in  its  oversight  of:  (A)  the  integrity  of 
the  financial  statements  of  the  Company,  (B)  the  Company’s  compliance  with  legal  and  regulatory 
requirements,  (C)  the  Company’s  system  of  internal  controls  and  procedures  and  disclosure  controls  and 
procedures,  (D)  the  independent  auditors’  qualifications  and  independence,  and  (E)  the  performance  of 
the  Company’s  internal  audit  function  and  independent  auditors.  The  Committee  shall  have  responsibility 
and  authority  with  respect  to  the  matters  set  forth  in  this  charter  for  the  Company  and  its  subsidiaries. 

III.  Committee  Membership 

1.  The  Committee  shall  have  at  least  three  (3)  members  at  all  times,  each  of  whom  shall  satisfy  the 
applicable  independence,  experience  and  financial  expertise/literacy  requirements  of  the  New 
York  Stock  Exchange  (“NYSE”)  and  Section  10A  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  as 
amended  by  the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  of  2002,  and  the  rules  promulgated  thereunder. 

2.  The  Board  shall  appoint  the  members  of  the  Committee  annually,  and  shall  designate  the 
Chairman  of  the  Committee.  Each  member  of  the  Committee  shall  serve  until  the  earlier  to 
occur  of  the  date  he  or  she  is  replaced  by  the  Board,  resigns  from  the  Committee  or  resigns  from 
the  Board.  The  Board  shall  have  the  power  at  any  time  to  change  the  membership  of  the 
Committee  and  to  fill  vacancies  in  it,  subject  to  such  new  member(s)  satisfying  the  applicable 
independence,  experience  and  financial  expertise/literacy  requirements  referred  to  above.  Except 
as  expressly  provided  in  this  charter  or  the  by-laws  of  the  Company  or  the  Corporate  Governance 
Guidelines  of  the  Company,  or  as  otherwise  provided  by  law  or  the  rules  of  the  NYSE,  the 
Committee  shall  fix  its  own  rules  of  procedure. 

3.  No  Director  may  serve  as  a  member  of  the  Committee  if  he  or  she  serves  on  the  audit  committee 
of  more  than  three  public  companies  unless  the  Board  determines  that  such  simultaneous  service 
would  not  impair  his  or  her  ability  to  effectively  serve  on  the  Committee,  and  discloses  this 
determination  in  the  Company’s  annual  proxy  statement.  No  member  of  the  Committee  may 
receive  any  compensation  from  the  Company  other  than  Director’s  fees,  which  may  be  received 
in  cash,  stock  options  or  other  in-kind  consideration. 

IV.  Meetings  of  Committee 

1.  The  Committee  shall  meet  at  least  four  (4)  times  each  fiscal  year,  and  at  such  other  times  as  are 
necessary  to  perform  the  functions  described  in  this  charter.  The  Committee  shall  maintain 
minutes  or  other  records  of  its  meetings  and  activities,  and  shall  make  regular  reports  to  the 
Board. 


B-l 


2.  The  Committee  may  request  any  officer  or  employee  of  the  Company  or  the  Company’s  outside 
counsel  or  independent  auditors  to  attend  a  meeting  of  the  Committee  or  to  meet  with  any 
members  of,  or  consultants  to,  the  Committee. 

V.  Committee  Authority  and  Responsibilities 

1.  The  Committee  shall  have  the  authority,  to  the  extent  it  deems  necessary  or  appropriate,  to  retain 
special  legal,  accounting  or  other  consultants  to  advise  the  Committee  and  assist  in  carrying  out 
its  duties,  and  to  conduct  or  authorize  investigations  into  any  matters  within  its  scope  of 
responsibilities.  The  Company  shall  provide  for  payment  for  such  services  and  investigations,  as 
determined  by  the  Committee. 

2.  The  Committee  shall  meet  periodically  by  itself,  with  management,  with  the  internal  auditors  and 
with  the  independent  auditors  in  separate  executive  sessions  in  furtherance  of  its  purposes. 

3.  The  Committee  shall,  with  the  assistance  of  management,  the  independent  auditors  and  legal 
counsel,  as  the  Committee  deems  appropriate,  review  and  evaluate,  at  least  annually,  this  charter 
and  the  Committee’s  performance,  and  report  and  make  appropriate  recommendations  to  the 
Board  with  respect  thereto. 

4.  The  Committee  shall  prepare  the  report  required  by  the  rules  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Commission  (“SEC”)  to  be  included  in  the  Company’s  annual  proxy  statement.  The  Committee 
shall  ensure  inclusion  of  its  then  current  charter  in  its  annual  proxy  statement  at  least  once  every 
three  years  in  accordance  with  regulations  of  the  SEC. 

5.  In  performing  its  functions,  the  Committee  shall  undertake  those  additional  tasks  and 
responsibilities  that,  in  its  judgment,  would  most  effectively  contribute  to  and  implement  the 
purposes  of  the  Committee.  The  following  functions  will  be  periodically  performed  by  the 
Committee  in  carrying  out  its  oversight  responsibility: 

A.  Review  and  discuss  with  management  and  the  independent  auditors,  as  applicable, 

(i)  critical  accounting  policies  and  practices  and  major  issues  regarding  accounting 
principles  and  financial  statement  presentations,  including  any  significant  changes  or 
choices  in  the  Company’s  application  of  accounting  principles; 

(ii)  management’s  process  for  assessing  the  effectiveness  of  internal  control  over  financial 
reporting  under  Section  404  of  the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  of  2002,  including  any  significant 
deficiencies  or  material  weaknesses  identified  and  any  special  audit  steps  adopted  in 
light  of  material  control  deficiencies; 

(iii)  management’s  report  on  its  assessment  of  the  effectiveness  of  internal  controls  over 
financial  reporting  as  of  the  end  of  each  fiscal  year  and  the  independent  auditors’  report 
on  the  effectiveness  of  internal  control  over  financial  reporting; 

(iv)  any  changes  in  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  that  have  materially  affected  or 
are  reasonably  likely  to  materially  affect  the  Company’s  internal  control  over  financial 
reporting  that  are  required  to  be  disclosed; 

(v)  analyses  prepared  by  management  or  the  independent  auditors  setting  forth  significant 
financial  reporting  issues,  estimates  and  judgments  made  in  connection  with  the 
preparation  of  the  financial  statements,  including  analyses  of  the  effects  of  alternative 
accounting  treatments  of  financial  information  within  accounting  principles  generally 
accepted  in  the  United  States  of  America  (“GAAP”); 

(vi)  any  management  letter  provided  by  the  independent  auditors  and  the  Company’s 
response  to  that  letter; 


B-2 


(vii)  other  material  written  communications  between  the  independent  auditors  and 
management, 

(viii)  any  problems,  difficulties  or  differences  encountered  in  the  course  of  the  audit  work, 
including  any  disagreements  with  management  or  restrictions  on  the  scope  of  the 
independent  auditors’  activities  or  on  access  to  requested  information  and 
management’s  response  thereto;  and 

(ix)  the  effect  of  evolving  regulatory  and  accounting  issues,  as  well  as  off-balance  sheet 
arrangements,  on  the  financial  statements  of  the  Company. 

B.  Discuss  generally  with  management  earnings  press  releases,  as  well  as  the  types  of  financial 
information  and  earnings  guidance  provided  to  analysts  and  rating  agencies. 

C.  Discuss  with  management  the  Company’s  major  financial  risk  exposures  and  the  steps 
management  has  taken  to  monitor  and  control  such  exposures,  including  the  Company’s  risk 
assessment  and  risk  management  policies. 

D.  Review  at  least  annually  the  exceptions  noted  in  the  reports  to  the  Audit  Committee  by  the 
internal  and  independent  auditors,  and  the  progress  made  in  responding  to  the  exceptions. 

E.  Discuss  with  management  and  the  independent  auditors  any  accounting  adjustments  that 
were  noted  or  proposed  by  the  independent  auditors  but  were  passed  as  immaterial  or 
otherwise. 

F.  Review  with  management  and  the  General  Counsel  the  Company’s  system  for  assessing 
whether  the  Company’s  financial  statements,  reports  and  other  financial  information 
required  to  be  disseminated  to  the  public  and  filed  with  governmental  organizations  satisfy 
the  requirements  of  the  SEC  and  NYSE. 

G.  Establish  policies  for  the  Company’s  hiring  of  employees  or  former  employees  of  the 
independent  auditors  who  were  engaged  on  the  Company’s  account. 

H.  Review  related  party  transactions  and  potential  conflict  of  interest  situations  where 
appropriate. 

I.  Review  the  Company’s  accounting  and  financial  management  succession  planning. 

J.  Ensure  that  the  Company  maintains  an  internal  audit  function. 

K.  Discuss  with  the  independent  auditors  the  internal  audit  department  and  its  audit  plan, 
responsibilities,  budget  and  staffing. 

L.  Establish  procedures  for  (i)  the  receipt,  retention  and  treatment  of  complaints  received  by 
the  Company  regarding  accounting,  internal  accounting  controls  or  auditing  matters  and 
(ii)  the  confidential,  anonymous  submission  by  Company  employees  of  concerns  regarding 
questionable  accounting  or  auditing  matters. 

M.  Review  disclosures  made  by  the  Company’s  principal  executive  officer  or  officers  and 
principal  financial  officer  or  officers  regarding  compliance  with  their  certification  obligations 
as  required  under  the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  of  2002  and  the  rules  promulgated  thereunder, 
including  the  Company’s  evaluation  of  the  effectiveness  of  the  design  and  operation  of 
disclosure  controls  and  procedures. 

6.  The  Committee  shall  review  and  consider  other  matters  in  relation  to  the  financial  affairs  of  the 

Company  and  its  accounts,  and  in  relation  to  the  internal  and  external  audit  of  the  Company  as 

the  Committee  may,  in  its  discretion,  determine  to  be  advisable. 


B-3 


VI.  Oversight  of  Independent  Auditors 

1.  The  Committee  shall  have  the  sole  authority  to  appoint  or  replace  the  independent  auditors,  and 
shall  approve  in  advance  all  audit  and  non-audit  engagement  fees  and  terms  with  the 
independent  auditors.  The  Committee  shall  consult  with  management  but  shall  not  delegate 
these  responsibilities,  except  that  pre-approvals  of  non-audit  services  may  be  delegated  to  a 
specified  member  or  members  of  the  Committee.  In  its  capacity  as  a  committee  of  the  Board,  the 
Committee  shall  be  directly  responsible  for  the  oversight  of  the  work  of  the  independent  auditors 
(including  resolution  of  disagreements  between  management  and  the  independent  auditors 
regarding  financial  reporting)  for  the  purpose  of  preparing  or  issuing  an  audit  report  or  audit 
related  work,  and  the  independent  auditors  shall  report  directly  to  the  Committee. 

2.  The  Committee  shall  not  approve  the  engagement  of  the  independent  auditors  to  render 
non-audit  services  prohibited  by  law  or  rules  and  regulations  promulgated  by  the  SEC.  The 
Committee  shall  consider  whether  the  provision  of  non-audit  services  is  compatible  with 
maintaining  the  independent  auditors’  independence,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  the  nature 
and  scope  of  the  specific  non-audit  services  to  be  performed  and  whether  the  audit  process  would 
require  the  independent  auditors  to  review  any  advice  rendered  by  the  independent  auditors  in 
connection  with  the  provision  of  non-audit  services. 

3.  The  following  functions  will  be  periodically  performed  by  the  Committee  in  carrying  out  its 
oversight  responsibility  with  respect  to  the  independent  auditors: 

A.  Review  the  scope,  plan  and  procedures  to  be  used  on  the  annual  audit,  as  recommended  by 
the  independent  auditors. 

B.  Prior  to  filing  the  Company’s  Form  10-K,  review  and  discuss  with  the  independent  auditors 
and  management  the  Company’s  annual  audited  financial  statements,  the  disclosures  made 
in  “Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results  of 
Operations,”  and  the  matters  required  to  be  discussed  pursuant  to  Statement  on  Auditing 
Standards  No.  61,  as  amended,  “Communication  with  Audit  Committees,”  and  recommend 
to  the  Board  whether  the  audited  financial  statements  should  be  included  in  the  Company’s 
Form  10-K. 

C.  Prior  to  filing  the  Company’s  Form  10-Q,  review  and  discuss  with  the  independent  auditors 
and  management  the  Company’s  quarterly  financial  statements,  the  disclosures  made  under 
“Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results  of  Operations” 
or  similar  disclosures,  and  any  matters  described  in  the  quarterly  review  letter  from  the 
independent  auditors,  including  the  results  of  the  independent  auditors’  reviews  of  the 
quarterly  financial  statements. 

D.  Obtain  and  review  a  report  from  the  independent  auditors  at  least  annually  regarding  (i)  the 
independent  auditors’  internal  quality-control  procedures,  (ii)  any  material  issues  raised  by 
the  most  recent  quality-control  review  or  peer  review  of  the  firm,  or  by  any  inquiry  or 
investigation  by  governmental  or  professional  authorities  within  the  preceding  five  years 
respecting  one  or  more  independent  audits  carried  out  by  the  firm,  and  (iii)  any  steps  taken 
to  deal  with  any  such  issues. 

E.  Evaluate  the  qualifications,  performance  and  independence  of  the  independent  auditors, 
including  a  review  and  evaluation  of  the  lead  partner  of  the  independent  auditors  and  taking 
into  account  the  opinions  of  management  and  the  Company’s  internal  auditors. 

F.  Receive  from  the  independent  auditors  at  least  annually  a  written  report  delineating  all 
relationships  between  the  independent  auditors  and  the  Company  which  may  impact  the 
objectivity  and  independence  of  the  independent  auditors.  The  report  shall  include  a 


B-4 


description  of  all  services  provided  by  the  independent  auditors  and  the  related  fees.  The 
Committee  shall  discuss  with  the  independent  auditors  any  disclosed  relationship  or  services 
that  may  impact  the  objectivity  and  independence  of  the  independent  auditors,  and 
recommend  that  the  Board  take  action  to  satisfy  itself  of  the  independence  of  the 
independent  auditors. 

G.  Ensure  that  the  lead  audit  partner  of  the  independent  auditors,  the  audit  partner  responsible 
for  reviewing  the  audit  and  any  other  partners  of  the  independent  auditors  who  perform 
audit  services  for  the  Company  are  rotated  at  least  every  five  years  to  the  extent  required  by 
the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  of  2002  and  the  rules  promulgated  thereunder,  and  further  consider 
rotation  of  the  independent  audit  firm. 

H.  Review  any  reports  of  the  independent  auditors  mandated  by  Section  10A  of  the  Securities 
Exchange  Act  of  1934,  as  amended,  and  obtain  from  the  independent  auditors  any 
information  with  respect  to  illegal  acts  in  accordance  with  Section  10A. 

VII.  Compliance  with  Laws,  Regulations  and  Policies 

The  Committee  will  assist  the  Board  in  the  oversight  of  the  Company’s  compliance  with  policies  and 
procedures  addressing  legal  and  ethical  concerns.  The  following  functions  are  some  of  the  common 
recurring  activities  of  the  Committee  in  carrying  out  this  oversight  responsibility: 

1.  Advise  the  Board  with  respect  to  the  Company’s  policies  and  procedures  regarding  compliance 
with  applicable  laws  and  regulations  and  with  the  Company’s  Worldwide  Code  of  Conduct  and 
Policy  on  Conflict  of  Interest. 

2.  Obtain  reports  from  management,  the  Company’s  Vice  President,  Audit,  and  General  Counsel  as 
to  whether  the  Company  and  its  subsidiaries  and  affiliated  entities  are  in  conformity  with 
applicable  legal  requirements  and  the  Company’s  Worldwide  Code  of  Conduct  and  Policy  on 
Conflict  of  Interest.  Review  annual  compliance  solicitation  regarding  these  policies  with  the  Vice 
President,  Audit. 

3.  Review  with  the  Company’s  General  Counsel  legal  or  regulatory  matters  that  may  have  a  material 
impact  on  the  Company’s  financial  statements,  compliance  programs  and  policies  and  any 
material  reports  or  inquiries  relating  to  financial,  accounting  or  other  matters  received  from 
regulators  or  governmental  agencies. 

4.  Review  with  the  Company’s  Vice  President,  Audit,  on  an  annual  basis,  the  Company’s  officers’ 
travel  and  entertainment  spending  and  use  of  the  corporate  aircraft  to  ensure  expenditures  and 
usage  are  appropriate  and  accounted  for  properly. 

5.  Periodically  review  the  rules  promulgated  by  the  SEC  and  NYSE  relating  to  the  qualifications, 
activities,  responsibilities  and  duties  of  audit  committees  and  shall  take,  or  recommend  that  the 
Board  take,  appropriate  action  to  comply  with  such  rules. 

VIII.  Oversight  of  Internal  Auditors 

The  Committee  shall: 

1.  Review  the  internal  audit  function  of  the  Company,  including  the  independence,  competence, 
staffing  adequacy  and  authority  of  the  function,  the  ability  of  the  function  to  raise  issues  to  the 
appropriate  level  of  authority,  the  reporting  relationships  among  the  internal  auditor,  financial 
management  and  the  Committee  and  the  internal  audit  reporting  obligations. 

2.  Review  the  proposed  internal  audit  plans  for  the  coming  year,  the  coordination  of  such  plans  with 
the  independent  auditors  and  the  progress  against  such  plans. 


B-5 


3.  Review  on  an  annual  basis  a  summary  of  significant  comments  and  management’s  responses 
thereon  from  completed  internal  audits. 

4.  Review  the  appointment,  performance  and  replacement  of  the  Vice  President,  Audit  (or  anyone 
of  equivalent  title  and  responsibility). 

IX.  Definition  of  Committee’s  Roles 

The  Committee’s  principal  responsibility  is  one  of  oversight.  The  Company’s  management  is 
responsible  for  preparing  the  Company’s  financial  statements,  and  the  independent  auditors  are 
responsible  for  auditing  and/or  reviewing  those  financial  statements.  While  the  Committee  has  the  powers 
and  responsibilities  set  forth  in  this  charter,  it  is  not  the  responsibility  of  the  Committee  to  plan  or  conduct 
audits  or  to  determine  that  the  Company’s  financial  statements  and  disclosures  are  complete  and  accurate, 
and  present  fairly  the  financial  position,  the  results  of  operations  and  the  cash  flows  of  the  Company,  in 
compliance  with  GAAP.  This  is  the  responsibility  of  management  and/or  the  independent  auditors.  In 
carrying  out  these  oversight  responsibilities,  the  Committee  is  not  providing  any  expert  or  special 
assurance  as  to  the  Company’s  financial  statements  or  any  professional  certification  as  to  the  independent 
auditors’  work.  Nor  is  it  the  responsibility  of  the  Committee  to  conduct  investigations  or  to  assure 
compliance  with  laws  and  regulations  and  the  Company’s  Worldwide  Code  of  Conduct. 


YUM  BRANDS,  INC. 

AUDIT  COMMITTEE  PRE -APPROVAL  POLICY 
(as  revised  March  2008) 


Exhibit  C 


This  Policy  sets  forth  the  Audit  Committee’s  procedures  and  conditions  for  pre-approving:  (1)  audit 
and  non-audit  services  performed  by  a  public  accounting  firm  that  acts  as  the  registered  public  accounting 
firm  (the  ‘Auditor”)  responsible  for  auditing  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of  YUM  Brands,  Inc. 
(the  “Company”),  or  (2)  audit  services  performed  by  any  other  public  accounting  firm  for  the  Company  or 
its  subsidiaries. 

I.  STATEMENT  OF  PRINCIPLES 

The  Audit  Committee  will  engage  the  Auditor  for  the  audit  of  the  Company’s  consolidated  financial 
statements.  Additionally,  the  Audit  Committee  may  engage  other  public  accounting  firms  for  audit  services 
provided  to  the  Company’s  subsidiaries  and  affiliates.  Prior  to  the  engagement  of  the  Auditor  for  any  audit 
or  permissible  non-audit  service  or  the  engagement  of  any  other  public  accounting  firm  for  audit  services 
the  engagement  must  be  either:  (a)  specifically  approved  by  the  Audit  Committee;  or  (b)  pre-approved 
pursuant  to  the  pre-approval  policies  and  procedures  set  forth  herein. 

The  appendices  to  this  Policy  describe  the  services  and  fees  that  have  been  pre-approved  by  the  Audit 
Committee.  The  term  of  any  pre-approval  is  the  latter  of  12  months  from  the  date  of  pre-approval  or,  for 
audit  services,  completion  of  the  engagement,  unless  the  Audit  Committee  specifically  provides  for  a 
different  period. 

The  Audit  Committee  will  periodically  revise  the  list  of  pre-approved  services  and  fees  reflected  on 
the  appendices  hereto.  Additionally,  the  Audit  Committee  may  amend  this  Policy  from  time  to  time. 

II.  DELEGATION  OF  AUTHORITY 

The  Audit  Committee  may  delegate  pre-approval  authority  to  one  or  more  if  its  independent 
members.  The  member  or  members  to  whom  such  authority  is  delegated  shall  report  any  pre-approval 
decisions  to  the  Audit  Committee  at  its  next  scheduled  meeting.  The  Audit  Committee  will  not  delegate  to 
management  the  Committee’s  responsibilities  for  pre-approving  audit  and  non-audit  services. 

III.  AUDIT  SERVICES 

The  Audit  Committee  must  specifically  pre-approve  the  terms  (including  fees)  and  scope  of  the 
annual  audit  and  associated  quarterly  reviews  by  the  Auditor  of  the  Company’s  consolidated  financial 
statements.  Audit  Committee  pre-approval  is  required  for  any  necessary  changes  in  these  terms  resulting 
from  changes  in  audit  scope,  Company  structure  or  other  matters. 

In  addition  to  the  annual  audit  and  associated  quarterly  reviews  by  the  Auditor  of  the  Company’s 
consolidated  financial  statements  specifically  approved  by  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Audit  Committee  may 
grant  pre-approval  for  other  audit  services  performed  by  the  Auditor  or  any  other  public  accounting  firm. 
The  Audit  Committee  has  pre-approved  the  audit  services  listed  in  Appendix  A.  All  other  audit  services 
not  pre-approved  through  their  inclusion  in  Appendix  A  must  be  specifically  pre-approved  by  the  Audit 
Committee  or  its  delegate  in  accordance  with  this  Policy. 

IV.  AUDIT-RELATED  SERVICES 

Audit-related  services  are  assurance  and  related  services  performed  by  the  Auditor  that  are 
reasonably  related  to  the  performance  of  the  audit  or  review  of  the  Company’s  consolidated  financial 


C-l 


statements.  The  Audit  Committee  may  pre-approve  those  audit-related  services  that  it  believes  would  not 
impair  the  independence  of  the  Auditor,  and  has  pre-approved  the  audit-related  services  listed  in 
Appendix  B.  All  other  audit-related  services  not  pre-approved  through  their  inclusion  in  Appendix  B  must 
be  specifically  pre-approved  by  the  Audit  Committee  or  its  delegate  in  accordance  with  this  Policy. 

V.  TAX  SERVICES 

The  Audit  Committee  believes  that  the  Auditor  can  provide  certain  tax  services  to  the  Company  such 
as  tax  compliance/return  preparation  and  consulation,  tax  planning  and  tax  government  examination 
assistance  without  impairing  the  Auditor’s  independence.  However,  the  Auditor  cannot  provide  any 
non-audit  service  to  the  Company  related  to  marketing,  planning  or  opining  in  favor  of  the  tax  treatment 
of  a  transaction  that  is  a  confidential  transaction  or  that  is  an  aggressive  tax  position  transaction  (both  as 
defined  by  the  Public  Company  Accounting  Oversight  Board’s  rules).  The  Audit  Committee  has 
pre-approved  the  tax  services  listed  in  Appendix  C.  All  tax  services  not  pre-approved  through  their 
inclusion  in  Appendix  C  must  be  specifically  pre-approved  by  the  Audit  Committee  or  its  delegate  in 
accordance  with  this  Policy. 

VI.  ALL  OTHER  SERVICES 

The  Audit  Committee  may  pre-approve  those  permissible  non-audit  services  classified  as  “All  Other 
Services”  that  it  believes  would  not  impair  the  independence  of  the  Auditor.  The  Audit  Committee  has 
pre-approved  the  other  services  listed  in  Appendix  D.  All  other  services  not  listed  in  Appendix  D  must  be 
specifically  pre-approved  by  the  Audit  Committee  or  its  delegate  in  accordance  with  this  Policy. 

VII.  PROHIBITED  SERVICES 

A  list  of  the  non-audit  services  prohibited  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  to  be 
performed  by  the  Auditor  is  attached  to  this  Policy  as  Exhibit  1.  Such  exhibit  may  be  amended  from  time  to 
time  to  add  any  other  service  prohibited  by  applicable  law,  regulation,  rule  or  accounting  or  auditing 
standard. 

VIII.  DE  MINIMUS  PRE-APPROVAL  EXCEPTION 

Pre-approval  is  not  required  for  non-audit  services  that  (a)  do  not  aggregate  to  more  than  5  percent  of 
total  revenues  paid  by  the  Company  to  the  Auditor  in  the  fiscal  year  in  which  the  services  are  provided, 
(b)  were  not  recognized  as  non-audit  services  at  the  time  of  the  engagement  and  (c)  are  promptly  brought 
to  the  attention  of  the  Audit  Committee  and  approved  prior  to  the  completion  of  the  audit  by  the  Audit 
Committee  (or  the  member  of  the  Audit  Committee  to  whom  pre-approval  authority  has  been  delegated 
as  authorized  pursuant  to  Section  II  of  this  Policy). 

IX.  PRE-APPROVED  FEE  LEVELS 

Pre-approved  fee  levels  for  all  services  to  be  provided  in  accordance  with  this  Policy  will  be  established 
periodically  by  the  Audit  Committee.  Any  proposed  services  exceeding  these  levels  will  require  specific 
pre-approval  by  the  Audit  Committee.  Each  year  the  Company  will  provide  the  Audit  Committee  with  a 
report  of  the  known  or  anticipated  audit,  audit-related,  tax  and  other  non-audit  services  together  with  an 
estimate  of  the  fees  for  such  services.  The  Audit  Committee  will  review  the  fees  and  scope  of  such  services 
so  as  to  avoid  any  question  as  to  the  compatibility  of  such  services  with  the  Auditor’s  independence.  Any 
changes  to  the  estimate  of  services  to  be  provided  and  fees  attributable  to  such  services  will  be  discussed, 
and  if  necessary,  revised. 


C-2 


X.  SUPPORTING  DETAIL 


With  respect  to  each  proposed  pre-approved  service,  the  Audit  Committee  will  be  provided  with  detail 
of  the  specific  services  to  be  provided  such  that  the  Audit  Committee  knows  precisely  what  services  it  is 
being  asked  to  pre-approve  so  that  it  can  make  a  well-reasoned  assessment  of  the  impact  of  the  service  on 
the  Auditor’s  independence.  With  regard  to  tax  services  performed  by  the  Auditor,  a  written  description  of 
the  arrangement,  including  the  fee  arrangement,  will  be  discussed  with  the  Audit  Committee,  along  with 
the  potential  effects  of  the  services  on  the  Auditor’s  independence. 

XI.  PROCEDURES 

Requests  or  applications  to  provide  services  that  require  specific  approval  of  the  Audit  Committee  will 
be  submitted  to  the  Audit  Committee  by  both  the  Auditor  and  the  Controller  or  other  designated 
representative  of  the  Company.  The  Audit  Committee  (or  the  member  of  the  Audit  Committee  to  whom 
pre-approval  authority  has  been  delegated  pursuant  to  Section  II  of  this  Policy)  will  approve  or  disapprove 
the  request  or  may  request  additional  information  from  the  Auditor  and  management  prior  to  rendering 
its  decision. 

This  Policy  was  last  amended  by  the  Audit  Committee 
of  YUM  Brands,  Inc.  on  March  14,  2008 


C-3 


d 


S<3 


§&gt  in 

u  a  <3  E  a  U  U 

IIHllli8|||[??=^2'Sgi„E1 


.  o  S  cj  A  “ 
stl^l  rfl 


o|g.2||o  ||  gag 

!  |I#1 1 1  III  |l!  I II  !  1 1  If ! 

g^S2.2o|£g8|s^.o-0§s2||gw«^ 

gScegSSLi^|’asg||Q;a|t;:Bu^Og 

uu003£^^22^SSSSSSZ0^2p:0 


I’llg 

|.§'i 

Sacj 


U  d  53  d 

|  -3  &  i 


a  «  g  U  S  §  | 

§  'all-j  ■§ 

^!!a||afg|s|||^-||a6^ 

_g  S3  <3  g  J  5  !°oo  Sa^ 

^|||<^<;^wuuuuuuqpqww3s 


i  I 

-J 


o  l 

If! 

ill 

BU» 


i/. global-reports. c 


£§€ 


§  du^  e-  g  B  6 
i £  a 


'§  1-1  S  ■c£'§3KH-«cfi”&ll^oEp,§  So -3 

iSfl illllisi lltfi iSltlg! 


•■S3 


113 

u  g-s-i  3< 


3<3 


|3|I 

3  «;§|-gi? 


F  .2  0 


gSSti 


& 

8  g1 

►9  e 

IIS 


I  illll'Sf.i'*?  '2-1 1  o  Q  ~-s  =5  ssst 

^ES§-3hL;g|'pHgg;og  O  U  O  g^gc 

FS’Sg  §  S  o  >,g  ofco  §  oS  I 

QH^OaKKuKKK-SubWJjSSSZZ^OO 


I  &  s 
3  38  -t 

c  O  C  g  a 


F?  &  S  0 

|3mi 

*  gsg 


1 1  s  ! 
£  |  £  | 


S3  dr°gM-  ■!  o'S,B^  S  |e  fU3a& 

!g  -s  tPsfilllaiayisjloW 
1 1 !  B ! i  I- B--1  £  =  “ •« -8  E|lslg-I|l|| 
^^^|<^^^^ramHSm383u333QQQQ 


Iff 


Is! 
a  3  <2 


Appendb 


3  IS  0  S 


a  g  E  S 

riiai 


I  1 


•BD-- 

>|11»1  .iSf 


&  la  I  §  §  * 

u  |  o  * 

■s  s  -  S  I  £  g 

n  B  ^  ^  >  U  rj  § 
Q§^5^a„ft 

"  'I  s  E  I 


Is  a -il  i^|  s|  8||“«  gl!  I"3 1  rills » 

g!«||ng^^L“^E§SSSBSS!3sl 


as5°  §1.^  8  &i| 

£181“ 


E§^_. 
WhhhhhhhP 


g  r o-amw  & 

q  ^|^la||«a 

g  3=3 

Sag  B  u 

§ 3 I  s1^’31l I I  !*§ 

U  c^U  UUUUUUUD 


111 


i/. global-reports. c 


Medtronic,  Inc.  TXU  Corp. 


(This  page  has  been  left  blank  intentionally.) 


UNITED  STATES 

SECURITIES  AND  EXCHANGE  COMMISSION 

Washington,  D.  C.  20549 


FORM  10-K 

0  ANNUAL  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO  SECTION  13  OR  15(d)  OF  THE 

SECURITIES  EXCHANGE  ACT  OF  1934  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  27,  2008 
OR 

□  TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO  SECTION  13  OR  15(d)  OF  THE 
SECURITIES  EXCHANGE  ACT  OF  1934 

For  the  transition  period  from  to 

Commission  file  number  1-13163 


YUM!  BRANDS,  INC. 

(Exact  name  of  registrant  as  specified  in  its  charter) 

North  Carolina  13-3951308 

(State  or  other  jurisdiction  of  incorporation  or  organization)  (I.R.S.  Employer  Identification  No.) 

1441  Gardiner  Lane,  Louisville,  Kentucky  40213 

(Address  of  principal  executive  offices)  (Zip  Code) 

Registrant’s  telephone  number,  including  area  code:  (502)  874-8300 
Securities  registered  pursuant  to  Section  12(b)  of  the  Act 
Title  of  Each  Class  Name  of  Each  Exchange  on  Which  Registered 

Common  Stock,  no  par  value  New  York  Stock  Exchange 

Securities  registered  pursuant  to  Section  12(g)  of  the  Act: 

Indicate  by  check  mark  if  the  registrant  is  a  well-known  seasoned  issuer,  as  defined  in  the  Rule  405  of  the  Securities 
Act.  Yes  0  No  □ 

Indicate  by  check  mark  if  the  registrant  is  not  required  to  file  reports  pursuant  to  Section  13  or  Section  15(d)  of  the 
Act.  Yes  □  No  0 

Indicate  by  check  mark  whether  the  registrant  (1)  has  filed  all  reports  required  to  be  filed  by  Section  13  or  15(d)  of  the 
Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934  during  the  preceding  12  months  (or  for  such  shorter  period  that  the  registrant  was  required  to 
file  such  reports),  and  (2)  has  been  subject  to  such  filing  requirements  for  the  past  90  days.  Yes  0  No  □ 

Indicate  by  check  mark  if  disclosure  of  delinquent  filers  pursuant  to  Item  405  of  Regulation  S-K  is  not  contained  herein, 
and  will  not  be  contained,  to  the  best  of  registrant’s  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information  statements  incorporated  by 
reference  in  Part  III  of  this  Form  10-K  or  any  amendment  to  this  Form  10-K.  0 

Indicate  by  check  mark  whether  the  registrant  is  a  large  accelerated  filer,  an  accelerated  filer,  non-accelerated  filer  or 
smaller  reporting  company.  See  definition  of  “accelerated  filer,  large  accelerated  filer  and  smaller  reporting  company”  in 
Rule  12b  of  the  Exchange  Act  (Check  one): 

Large  accelerated  filer:  0  Accelerated  filer:  □  Non-accelerated  filer:  □  Smaller  reporting  company:  □ 

(Do  not  check  if  a  smaller 
reporting  company) 

Indicate  by  check  mark  whether  the  registrant  is  a  shell  company  (as  defined  in  Rule  12b-2  of  the  Exchange 
Act).  Yes  □  No  0 

The  aggregate  market  value  of  the  voting  stock  (which  consists  solely  of  shares  of  Common  Stock)  held  by  non-affiliates  of 
the  registrant  as  of  June  14,  2008  computed  by  reference  to  the  closing  price  of  the  registrant’s  Common  Stock  on  the  New 
York  Stock  Exchange  Composite  Tape  on  such  date  was  $17,938,014,271.  All  executive  officers  and  directors  of  the  registrant 
have  been  deemed,  solely  for  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing  calculation,  to  be  “affiliates”  of  the  registrant.  The  number  of  shares 
outstanding  of  the  registrant’s  Common  Stock  as  of  February  11,  2009  was  459,931,675  shares. 

Documents  Incorporated  by  Reference 

Portions  of  the  definitive  proxy  statement  furnished  to  shareholders  of  the  registrant  in  connection  with  the  annual 
meeting  of  shareholders  to  be  held  on  May  21,  2009  are  incorporated  by  reference  into  Part  III. 


Forward-Looking  Statements 


From  time  to  time,  in  both  written  reports  and  oral  statements,  we  present  “forward-looking  statements”  within  the 
meaning  of  Section  27A  of  the  Securities  Act  of  1933,  as  amended,  and  Section  21E  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of 
1934,  as  amended.  We  intend  such  forward-looking  statements  to  be  covered  by  the  safe  harbor  provisions  of  the  Private 
Securities  Litigation  Reform  Act  of  1995,  and  we  are  including  this  statement  for  purposes  of  complying  with  those  safe 
harbor  provisions. 

Forward-looking  statements  can  be  identified  by  the  fact  that  they  do  not  relate  strictly  to  historical  or  current  facts.  These 
statements  often  include  words  such  as  “may,”  “will,”  “estimate,”  “intend,”  “seek,”  “expect,”  “project,”  “anticipate,” 
“believe,”  “plan”  or  other  similar  terminology.  These  forward-looking  statements  are  based  on  current  expectations  and 
assumptions  and  upon  data  available  at  the  time  of  the  statements  and  are  neither  predictions  nor  guarantees  of  future 
events  or  circumstances.  The  forward-looking  statements  are  subject  to  risks  and  uncertainties,  which  may  cause  actual 
results  to  differ  materially.  Important  factors  that  could  cause  actual  results  and  events  to  differ  materially  from  our 
expectations  and  forward-looking  statements  include  (i)  the  risks  and  uncertainties  described  in  the  Risk  Factors  included 
in  Part  I,  Item  1A  of  this  Form  10-K  and  (ii)  the  factors  described  in  the  Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  of 
Financial  Condition  and  Results  of  Operations  included  in  Part  II,  Item  7  of  this  Form  10-K.  You  should  not  place  undue 
reliance  on  forward-looking  statements,  which  speak  only  as  of  the  date  hereof.  In  making  these  statements,  we  are  not 
undertaking  to  address  or  update  any  risk  factor  set  forth  herein,  in  future  filings  or  communications  regarding  our 
business  results. 


2 


PARTI 


Item  1.  Business. 

YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  (referred  to  herein  as  “YUM”  or  the  “Company”),  was  incorporated  under  the  laws  of  the  state  of 
North  Carolina  in  1997.  The  principal  executive  offices  of  YUM  are  located  at  1441  Gardiner  Lane,  Louisville,  Kentucky 
40213,  and  the  telephone  number  at  that  location  is  (502)  874-8300. 

YUM,  the  registrant,  together  with  its  subsidiaries,  is  referred  to  in  this  Form  10-K  annual  report  (“Form  10-K”)  as  the 
Company.  The  terms  “we,”  “us”  and  “our”  are  also  used  in  the  Form  10-K  to  refer  to  the  Company.  Throughout  this 
Form  10-K,  the  terms  “restaurants,”  “stores”  and  “units”  are  used  interchangeably. 

This  Form  10-K  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  Forward-Looking  Statements  on  page  2  and  the  Risk  Factors  set 
forth  in  Item  1A. 

(a)  General  Development  of  Business 

In  January  1997,  PepsiCo  announced  its  decision  to  spin-off  its  restaurant  businesses  to  shareholders  as  an  independent 
public  company  (the  “Spin-off’).  Effective  October  6,  1997,  PepsiCo  disposed  of  its  restaurant  businesses  by  distributing 
all  of  the  outstanding  shares  of  Common  Stock  of  YUM  to  its  shareholders. 

On  May  7,  2002,  YUM  completed  the  acquisition  of  Yorkshire  Global  Restaurants,  Inc.  (“YGR”),  the  parent  company 
and  operator  of  Long  John  Silver’s  (“LJS”)  and  A&W  All-American  Food  Restaurants  (“A&W”).  On  May  16,  2002, 
following  receipt  of  shareholder  approval,  the  Company  changed  its  name  from  TRICON  Global  Restaurants,  Inc.  to 
YUM!  Brands,  Inc. 

(b)  Financial  Information  about  Operating  Segments 

YUM  consists  of  six  operating  segments:  KFC-U.S.,  Pizza  Hut-U.S.,  Taco  Bell-U.S.,  LJS/A&W-U.S.,  YUM  Restaurants 
International  (“YRI”  or  “International  Division”)  and  YUM  Restaurants  China  (“China  Division”).  For  financial 
reporting  purposes,  management  considers  the  four  U.S.  operating  segments  to  be  similar  and,  therefore,  has  aggregated 
them  into  a  single  reportable  operating  segment.  The  China  Division  includes  mainland  China  (“China”),  Thailand  and 
KFC  Taiwan,  and  the  International  Division  includes  the  remainder  of  our  international  operations. 

Operating  segment  information  for  the  years  ended  December  27,  2008,  December  29,  2007  and  December  30,  2006  for 
the  Company  is  included  in  Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results  of  Operations 
(“MD&A”)  in  Part  II,  Item  7,  pages  24  through  52  and  in  the  related  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  footnotes  in 
Part  II,  Item  8,  pages  53  through  106. 

(c)  Narrative  Description  of  Business 
General 

YUM  is  the  world’s  largest  quick  service  restaurant  (“QSR”)  company  based  on  number  of  system  units,  with  more  than 
36,000  units  in  more  than  110  countries  and  territories.  Through  the  five  concepts  of  KFC,  Pizza  Hut,  Taco  Bell,  LJS  and 
A&W  (the  “Concepts”),  the  Company  develops,  operates,  franchises  and  licenses  a  worldwide  system  of  restaurants 
which  prepare,  package  and  sell  a  menu  of  competitively  priced  food  items.  The  Company  either  operates  units  or  they 
are  operated  by  independent  franchisees  or  licensees  under  the  terms  of  franchise  or  license  agreements.  Franchisees  can 
range  in  size  from  individuals  owning  just  one  unit  to  large  publicly  traded  companies.  In  addition,  the  Company  owns 
non-controlling  interests  in  Unconsolidated  Affiliates  in  China  who  operate  similar  to  franchisees. 


3 


At  year  end  2008,  we  had  approximately  20,000  system  restaurants  in  the  U.S.  which  achieved  revenues  of  $5.1  billion 
and  Operating  Profit  of  $694  million  during  2008.  The  International  Division,  based  in  Dallas,  Texas,  comprises 
approximately  13,000  system  restaurants,  primarily  KFCs  and  Pizza  Huts,  operating  in  over  1 10  countries  outside  the  U.S. 
In  2008,  YRI  achieved  revenues  of  $3.0  billion  and  Operating  Profit  of  $528  million.  The  China  Division,  based  in 
Shanghai,  China,  comprises  approximately  3,600  system  restaurants,  predominately  KFCs.  In  2008,  the  China  Division 
achieved  revenues  of  $3.1  billion  and  Operating  Profit  of  $469  million. 

Restaurant  Concepts 

Most  restaurants  in  each  Concept  offer  consumers  the  ability  to  dine  in  and/or  carry  out  food.  In  addition,  Taco  Bell, 
KFC,  LJS  and  A&W  offer  a  drive-thru  option  in  many  stores.  Pizza  Hut  offers  a  drive-thru  option  on  a  much  more 
limited  basis.  Pizza  Hut  and,  on  a  much  more  limited  basis,  KFC  offer  delivery  service. 

Each  Concept  has  proprietary  menu  items  and  emphasizes  the  preparation  of  food  with  high  quality  ingredients,  as  well  as 
unique  recipes  and  special  seasonings  to  provide  appealing,  tasty  and  attractive  food  at  competitive  prices. 

The  franchise  program  of  the  Company  is  designed  to  assure  consistency  and  quality,  and  the  Company  is  selective  in 
granting  franchises.  Under  standard  franchise  agreements,  franchisees  supply  capital  -  initially  by  paying  a  franchise  fee 
to  YUM,  purchasing  or  leasing  the  land,  building  and  equipment  and  purchasing  signs,  seating,  inventories  and  supplies 
and,  over  the  longer  term,  by  reinvesting  in  the  business.  Franchisees  then  contribute  to  the  Company’s  revenues  through 
the  payment  of  royalties  based  on  a  percentage  of  sales. 

The  Company  believes  that  it  is  important  to  maintain  strong  and  open  relationships  with  its  franchisees  and  their 
representatives.  To  this  end,  the  Company  invests  a  significant  amount  of  time  working  with  the  franchisee  community 
and  their  representative  organizations  on  all  aspects  of  the  business,  including  products,  equipment,  operational 
improvements  and  standards  and  management  techniques. 

The  Company  and  its  franchisees  also  operate  multibrand  units,  primarily  in  the  U.S.,  where  two  or  more  of  the  Concepts 
are  operated  in  a  single  unit.  At  year  end  2008,  there  were  4,958  multibranded  units  in  the  worldwide  system,  of  which 
4,629  were  in  the  U.S.  These  units  were  comprised  of  2,751  units  offering  food  products  from  two  of  the  Concepts,  40 
units  offering  food  products  from  three  of  the  Concepts  and  2,167  units  offering  food  products  from  Pizza  Hut  and 
WingStreet,  a  flavored  chicken  wings  concept. 

Following  is  a  brief  description  of  each  concept: 

KFC 

•  KFC  was  founded  in  Corbin,  Kentucky  by  Colonel  Harland  D.  Sanders,  an  early  developer  of  the  quick  service  food 
business  and  a  pioneer  of  the  restaurant  franchise  concept.  The  Colonel  perfected  his  secret  blend  of  1 1  herbs  and 
spices  for  Kentucky  Fried  Chicken  in  1939  and  signed  up  his  first  franchisee  in  1952.  KFC  is  based  in  Louisville, 
Kentucky. 

•  As  of  year  end  2008,  KFC  was  the  leader  in  the  U.S.  chicken  QSR  segment  among  companies  featuring  chicken-on- 
the-bone  as  their  primary  product  offering,  with  a  44  percent  market  share  (Source:  The  NPD  Group,  Inc.;  NPD 
Foodworld;  CREST)  in  that  segment,  which  is  more  than  three  times  that  of  its  closest  national  competitor. 

•  KFC  operates  in  109  countries  and  territories  throughout  the  world.  As  of  year  end  2008,  KFC  had  5,253  units  in  the 
U.S.,  and  10,327  units  outside  the  U.S.,  including  2,497  units  in  mainland  China.  Approximately  18  percent  of  the 
U.S.  units  and  28  percent  of  the  non-U. S.  units  are  operated  by  the  Company. 


4 


reports.c 


•  Traditional  KFC  restaurants  in  the  U.S.  offer  fried  chicken-on-the-bone  products,  primarily  marketed  under  the 
names  Original  Recipe  and  Extra  Tasty  Crispy.  Other  principal  entree  items  include  chicken  sandwiches  (including 
the  Snacker  and  the  Twister),  KFC  Famous  Bowls,  Colonel’s  Crispy  Strips,  Wings,  Popcorn  Chicken  and  seasonally, 
Chunky  Chicken  Pot  Pies.  KFC  restaurants  in  the  U.S.  also  offer  a  variety  of  side  items,  such  as  biscuits,  mashed 
potatoes  and  gravy,  coleslaw,  com,  and  potato  wedges,  as  well  as  desserts.  While  many  of  these  products  are  offered 
outside  of  the  U.S.,  international  menus  are  more  focused  on  chicken  sandwiches  and  Colonel’s  Crispy  Strips,  and 
include  side  items  that  are  suited  to  local  preferences  and  tastes.  Restaurant  decor  throughout  the  world  is 
characterized  by  the  image  of  the  Colonel. 

Pizza  Hut 


The  first  Pizza  Hut  restaurant  was  opened  in  1958  in  Wichita,  Kansas,  and  within  a  year,  the  first  franchise  unit  was 
opened.  Today,  Pizza  Hut  is  the  largest  restaurant  chain  in  the  world  specializing  in  the  sale  of  ready-to-eat  pizza 
products.  Pizza  Hut  is  based  in  Dallas,  Texas. 

As  of  year  end  2008,  Pizza  Hut  was  the  leader  in  the  U.S.  pizza  QSR  segment,  with  a  15  percent  market  share 
(Source:  The  NPD  Group,  Inc.;  NPD  Foodworld;  CREST)  in  that  segment. 

Pizza  Hut  operates  in  97  countries  and  territories  throughout  the  world.  As  of  year  end  2008,  Pizza  Hut  had  7,564 
units  in  the  U.S.,  and  5,611  units  outside  of  the  U.S.  Approximately  14  percent  of  the  U.S.  units  and  25  percent  of 
the  non-U. S.  units  are  operated  by  the  Company. 

Pizza  Hut  features  a  variety  of  pizzas,  which  may  include  Pan  Pizza,  Thin  ‘n  Crispy,  Hand  Tossed,  Sicilian,  Stuffed 
Crust,  Twisted  Crust,  Sicilian  Lasagna  Pizza,  Cheesy  Bites  Pizza,  The  Big  New  Yorker,  The  Insider,  The  Chicago 
Dish,  the  Natural  and  4forALL.  Each  of  these  pizzas  is  offered  with  a  variety  of  different  toppings.  Pizza  Hut  now 
also  offers  a  variety  of  Tuscani  Pastas.  In  some  restaurants,  Pizza  Hut  also  offers  WingStreet  chicken  wings, 
breadsticks,  salads  and  sandwiches.  Menu  items  outside  of  the  U.S.  are  generally  similar  to  those  offered  in  the 
U.S.,  though  pizza  toppings  are  often  suited  to  local  preferences  and  tastes. 


Taco  Bell 


The  first  Taco  Bell  restaurant  was  opened  in  1962  by  Glen  Bell  in  Downey,  California,  and  in  1964,  the  first  Taco 
Bell  franchise  was  sold.  Taco  Bell  is  based  in  Irvine,  California. 

As  of  year  end  2008,  Taco  Bell  was  the  leader  in  the  U.S.  Mexican  QSR  segment,  with  a  54  percent  market  share 
(Source:  The  NPD  Group,  Inc.;  NPD  Foodworld;  CREST)  in  that  segment. 

Taco  Bell  operates  in  17  countries  and  territories  throughout  the  world.  As  of  year  end  2008,  there  were  5,588  Taco 
Bell  units  in  the  U.S.,  and  245  units  outside  of  the  U.S.  Approximately  24  percent  of  the  U.S.  units  and  1  percent  of 
the  non-U. S.  units  are  operated  by  the  Company. 

Taco  Bell  specializes  in  Mexican-style  food  products,  including  various  types  of  tacos,  burritos,  gorditas,  chalupas, 
quesadillas,  taquitos,  salads,  nachos  and  other  related  items.  Additionally,  proprietary  entree  items  include  Grilled 
Stuft  Burritos  and  Border  Bowls.  Taco  Bell  units  feature  a  distinctive  bell  logo  on  their  signage. 


5 


•  The  first  LJS  restaurant  opened  in  1969  and  the  first  LJS  franchise  unit  opened  later  the  same  year.  LJS  is  based  in 
Louisville,  Kentucky. 

•  As  of  year  end  2008,  LJS  was  the  leader  in  the  U.S.  seafood  QSR  segment,  with  a  35  percent  market  share  (Source: 
The  NPD  Group,  Inc.;  NPD  Foodworld;  CREST)  in  that  segment. 

•  LJS  operates  in  7  countries  and  territories  throughout  the  world.  As  of  year  end  2008,  there  were  1,022  LJS  units  in 
the  U.S.,  and  38  units  outside  the  U.S.  All  single-brand  units  inside  and  outside  of  the  U.S.  are  operated  by 
franchisees  or  licensees.  As  of  year  end  2008,  there  were  137  company  operated  multi-brand  units  that  included  the 
LJS  concept. 

•  LJS  features  a  variety  of  seafood  and  chicken  items,  including  meals  featuring  batter-dipped  fish,  chicken  and 
shrimp,  non-fried  salmon,  shrimp  and  tilapia,  hushpuppies  and  portable  snack  items.  LJS  units  typically  feature  a 
distinctive  seaside/nautical  theme. 

A&W 

•  A&W  was  founded  in  Lodi,  California  by  Roy  Allen  in  1919  and  the  first  A&W  franchise  unit  opened  in  1925. 
A&W  is  based  in  Louisville,  Kentucky. 

•  A&W  operates  in  10  countries  and  territories  throughout  the  world.  As  of  year  end  2008,  there  were  363  A&W  units 
in  the  U.S.,  and  264  units  outside  the  U.S.  All  single-brand  units  inside  and  outside  of  the  U.S.  are  operated  by 
franchisees.  As  of  year  end  2008,  there  were  89  company  operated  multi-brand  units  that  included  the  A&W 
concept. 

•  A&W  serves  A&W  draft  Root  Beer  and  a  signature  A&W  Root  Beer  float,  as  well  as  hot  dogs  and  hamburgers. 

Restaurant  Operations 

Through  its  Concepts,  YUM  develops,  operates,  franchises  and  licenses  a  worldwide  system  of  both  traditional  and  non- 
traditional  QSR  restaurants.  Traditional  units  feature  dine-in,  carryout  and,  in  some  instances,  drive-thru  or  delivery 
services.  Non- traditional  units,  which  are  typically  licensed  outlets,  include  express  units  and  kiosks  which  have  a  more 
limited  menu  and  operate  in  non-traditional  locations  like  malls,  airports,  gasoline  service  stations,  convenience  stores, 
stadiums,  amusement  parks  and  colleges,  where  a  full-scale  traditional  outlet  would  not  be  practical  or  efficient. 

The  Company’s  restaurant  management  structure  varies  by  Concept  and  unit  size.  Generally,  each  Company  restaurant  is 
led  by  a  restaurant  general  manager  (“RGM”),  together  with  one  or  more  assistant  managers,  depending  on  the  operating 
complexity  and  sales  volume  of  the  restaurant.  In  the  U.S.,  the  average  restaurant  has  25  to  30  employees,  while 
internationally  this  figure  can  be  significantly  higher  depending  on  the  location  and  sales  volume  of  the  restaurant.  Most 
of  the  employees  work  on  a  part-time  basis.  We  issue  detailed  manuals,  which  may  then  be  customized  to  meet  local 
regulations  and  customs,  covering  all  aspects  of  restaurant  operations,  including  food  handling  and  product  preparation 
procedures,  safety  and  quality  issues,  equipment  maintenance,  facility  standards  and  accounting  control  procedures.  The 
restaurant  management  teams  are  responsible  for  the  day-to-day  operation  of  each  unit  and  for  ensuring  compliance  with 
operating  standards.  CHAMPS  -  which  stands  for  Cleanliness,  Hospitality,  Accuracy,  Maintenance,  Product  Quality  and 
Speed  of  Service  -  is  our  proprietary  core  systemwide  program  for  training,  measuring  and  rewarding  employee 
performance  against  key  customer  measures.  CHAMPS  is  intended  to  align  the  operating  processes  of  our  entire  system 
around  one  set  of  standards.  RGMs’  efforts,  including  CHAMPS  performance  measures,  are  monitored  by  Area  Coaches. 
Area  Coaches  typically  work  with  approximately  six  to  twelve  restaurants.  Various  senior  operators  visit  the  Company’s 
restaurants  from  time  to  time  to  help  ensure  adherence  to  system  standards  and  mentor  restaurant  team  members. 


Supply  and  Distribution 

The  Company  is  a  substantial  purchaser  of  a  number  of  food  and  paper  products,  equipment  and  other  restaurant  supplies. 
The  principal  items  purchased  include  chicken,  cheese,  beef  and  pork  products,  seafood,  paper  and  packaging  materials. 

The  Company  is  committed  to  conducting  its  business  in  an  ethical,  legal  and  socially  responsible  manner.  Our  suppliers 
are  selected,  assessed  and  rewarded  through  a  rigorous  audit  system  that  sets  and  monitors  standards  for  all  of  our  brands’ 
key  suppliers.  All  of  our  restaurants,  regardless  of  their  ownership  structure  or  location,  must  adhere  to  our  strict  food 
quality  and  safety  standards.  The  guidelines  are  translated  to  local  market  requirements  and  regulations  where  appropriate 
and  without  compromising  the  standards.  Long-term  contracts  and  long-term  vendor  relationships  are  used  to  ensure 
availability  of  products.  The  Company  has  not  experienced  any  significant  continuous  shortages  of  supplies,  and 
alternative  sources  for  most  of  these  products  are  generally  available.  Prices  paid  for  these  supplies  fluctuate.  When 
prices  increase,  the  Company  may  be  able  to  pass  on  such  increases  to  its  customers,  although  there  is  no  assurance  that 
this  can  be  done  practically. 

U.S.  Division.  The  Company,  along  with  the  representatives  of  the  Company’s  KFC,  Pizza  Hut,  Taco  Bell,  LJS  and 
A&W  franchisee  groups,  are  members  in  the  Unified  Foodservice  Purchasing  Co-op,  LLC  (the  “Unified  Co-op”)  which 
was  created  for  the  purpose  of  purchasing  certain  restaurant  products  and  equipment  in  the  U.S.  The  core  mission  of  the 
Unified  Co-op  is  to  provide  the  lowest  possible  sustainable  store-delivered  prices  for  restaurant  products  and  equipment 
while  ensuring  compliance  with  certain  quality  and  safety  standards.  This  arrangement  combines  the  purchasing  power  of 
the  Company  and  franchisee  restaurants  in  the  U.S.  which  the  Company  believes  leverages  the  system’s  scale  to  drive  cost 
savings  and  effectiveness  in  the  purchasing  function.  The  Company  also  believes  that  the  Unified  Co-op  has  resulted,  and 
should  continue  to  result,  in  closer  alignment  of  interests  and  a  stronger  relationship  with  its  franchisee  community. 

Most  food  products,  paper  and  packaging  supplies,  and  equipment  used  in  the  operation  of  the  Company’s  restaurants  are 
distributed  to  individual  restaurant  units  by  third  party  distribution  companies.  McLane  Company,  Inc.  (“McLane”)  is  the 
exclusive  distributor  for  Company-operated  restaurants  in  the  U.S.  and  for  a  substantial  number  of  franchisee  and  licensee 
stores.  McLane  became  the  distributor  when  it  assumed  all  distribution  responsibilities  under  an  existing  agreement 
between  Ameriserve  Food  Distribution,  Inc.  (“AmeriServe”)  and  the  Company.  This  agreement  extends  through  October 
31,  2010  and  generally  prohibits  Company-operated  restaurants  from  using  alternative  distributors  in  the  U.S. 

International  and  China  Divisions.  Outside  of  the  U.S.  we  and  our  franchisees  use  decentralized  sourcing  and  distribution 
systems  involving  many  different  global,  regional,  and  local  suppliers  and  distributors.  In  China,  we  work  with 
approximately  500  suppliers.  In  our  YRI  markets  we  have  approximately  1,400  suppliers,  including  U.S.-based  suppliers 
that  export  to  many  countries.  In  certain  countries,  we  own  all  or  a  portion  of  the  distribution  system,  including  China 
where  we  own  the  entire  distribution  system. 

Trademarks  and  Patents 

The  Company  and  its  Concepts  own  numerous  registered  trademarks  and  service  marks.  The  Company  believes  that 
many  of  these  marks,  including  its  Kentucky  Fried  Chicken®,  KFC®,  Pizza  Hut®,  Taco  Bell®  and  Long  John  Silver’s® 
marks,  have  significant  value  and  are  materially  important  to  its  business.  The  Company’s  policy  is  to  pursue  registration 
of  its  important  marks  whenever  feasible  and  to  oppose  vigorously  any  infringement  of  its  marks.  The  Company  also 
licenses  certain  A&W  trademarks  and  service  marks  (the  “A&W  Marks”),  which  are  owned  by  A&W  Concentrate 
Company  (formerly  A&W  Brands,  Inc.).  A&W  Concentrate  Company,  which  is  not  affiliated  with  the  Company,  has 
granted  the  Company  an  exclusive,  worldwide  (excluding  Canada),  perpetual,  royalty-free  license  (with  the  right  to 
sublicense)  to  use  the  A&W  Marks  for  restaurant  services. 

The  use  of  these  marks  by  franchisees  and  licensees  has  been  authorized  in  KFC,  Pizza  Hut,  Taco  Bell,  LJS  and  A&W 
franchise  and  license  agreements.  Under  current  law  and  with  proper  use,  the  Company’s  rights  in  its  marks  can  generally 
last  indefinitely.  The  Company  also  has  certain  patents  on  restaurant  equipment  which,  while  valuable,  are  not  material  to 
its  business. 


7 


Working  Capital 


Information  about  the  Company’s  working  capital  is  included  in  MD&A  in  Part  II,  Item  7,  pages  24  through  52  and  the 
Consolidated  Statements  of  Cash  Flows  in  Part  II,  Item  8,  page  57. 

Customers 

The  Company’s  business  is  not  dependent  upon  a  single  customer  or  small  group  of  customers. 

Seasonal  Operations 

The  Company  does  not  consider  its  operations  to  be  seasonal  to  any  material  degree. 

Backlog  Orders 

Company  restaurants  have  no  backlog  orders. 

Government  Contracts 

No  material  portion  of  the  Company’s  business  is  subject  to  renegotiation  of  profits  or  termination  of  contracts  or 
subcontracts  at  the  election  of  the  U.S.  government. 

Competition 

The  retail  food  industry,  in  which  the  Company  competes,  is  made  up  of  supermarkets,  supercenters,  warehouse  stores, 
convenience  stores,  coffee  shops,  snack  bars,  delicatessens  and  restaurants  (including  the  QSR  segment),  and  is  intensely 
competitive  with  respect  to  food  quality,  price,  service,  convenience,  location  and  concept.  The  industry  is  often  affected 
by  changes  in  consumer  tastes;  national,  regional  or  local  economic  conditions;  currency  fluctuations;  demographic 
trends;  traffic  patterns;  the  type,  number  and  location  of  competing  food  retailers  and  products;  and  disposable  purchasing 
power.  Each  of  the  Concepts  compete  with  international,  national  and  regional  restaurant  chains  as  well  as  locally-owned 
restaurants,  not  only  for  customers,  but  also  for  management  and  hourly  personnel,  suitable  real  estate  sites  and  qualified 
franchisees.  In  2008,  the  restaurant  business  in  the  U.S.  consisted  of  about  945,000  restaurants  representing 
approximately  $552  billion  in  annual  sales.  The  Company’s  Concepts  accounted  for  about  2%  of  those  restaurants  and 
about  3%  of  those  sales.  There  is  currently  no  way  to  reasonably  estimate  the  size  of  the  competitive  market  outside  the 
U.S. 

Research  and  Development  (“R&D”) 

The  Company’s  subsidiaries  operate  R&D  facilities  in  Louisville,  Kentucky  (KFC);  Dallas,  Texas  (Pizza  Hut  and  YRI); 
and  Irvine,  California  (Taco  Bell)  and  in  several  locations  outside  the  U.S.,  including  Shanghai,  China  (China).  The 
Company  expensed  $34  million,  $39  million  and  $33  million  in  2008,  2007  and  2006,  respectively,  for  R&D  activities. 
From  time  to  time,  independent  suppliers  also  conduct  research  and  development  activities  for  the  benefit  of  the  YUM 
system. 


Environmental  Matters 


The  Company  is  not  aware  of  any  federal,  state  or  local  environmental  laws  or  regulations  that  will  materially  affect  its 
earnings  or  competitive  position,  or  result  in  material  capital  expenditures.  However,  the  Company  cannot  predict  the 
effect  on  its  operations  of  possible  future  environmental  legislation  or  regulations.  During  2008,  there  were  no  material 
capital  expenditures  for  environmental  control  facilities  and  no  such  material  expenditures  are  anticipated. 

Government  Regulation 

U.S.  Division.  The  Company  and  its  U.S.  Division  are  subject  to  various  federal,  state  and  local  laws  affecting  its 
business.  Each  of  the  Company’s  restaurants  in  the  U.S.  must  comply  with  licensing  and  regulation  by  a  number  of 
governmental  authorities,  which  include  health,  sanitation,  safety  and  fire  agencies  in  the  state  or  municipality  in  which 
the  restaurant  is  located.  In  addition,  the  Company  must  comply  with  various  state  laws  that  regulate  the 
franchisor/franchisee  relationship.  To  date,  the  Company  has  not  been  significantly  affected  by  any  difficulty,  delay  or 
failure  to  obtain  required  licenses  or  approvals. 

The  Company  is  also  subject  to  federal  and  state  laws  governing  such  matters  as  employment  and  pay  practices,  overtime, 
tip  credits  and  working  conditions.  The  bulk  of  the  Company’s  employees  are  paid  on  an  hourly  basis  at  rates  related  to 
the  federal  and  state  minimum  wages. 

The  Company  is  also  subject  to  federal  and  state  child  labor  laws  which,  among  other  things,  prohibit  the  use  of  certain 
“hazardous  equipment”  by  employees  younger  than  18  years  of  age.  The  Company  has  not  been  materially  adversely 
affected  by  such  laws  to  date. 

The  Company  continues  to  monitor  its  facilities  for  compliance  with  the  Americans  with  Disabilities  Act  (“ADA”)  in 
order  to  conform  to  its  requirements.  Under  the  ADA,  the  Company  could  be  required  to  expend  funds  to  modify  its 
restaurants  to  better  provide  service  to,  or  make  reasonable  accommodation  for  the  employment  of,  disabled  persons. 

International  and  China  Divisions.  The  Company’s  restaurants  outside  the  U.S.  are  subject  to  national  and  local  laws  and 
regulations  which  are  similar  to  those  affecting  the  Company’s  U.S.  restaurants,  including  laws  and  regulations 
concerning  labor,  health,  sanitation  and  safety.  The  restaurants  outside  the  U.S.  are  also  subject  to  tariffs  and  regulations 
on  imported  commodities  and  equipment  and  laws  regulating  foreign  investment.  International  compliance  with 
environmental  requirements  has  not  had  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the  Company’s  results  of  operations,  capital 
expenditures  or  competitive  position. 

Employees 

As  of  year  end  2008,  the  Company  employed  approximately  336,000  persons,  approximately  85  percent  of  whom  were 
part-time.  Approximately  26  percent  of  the  Company’s  employees  are  employed  in  the  U.S.  The  Company  believes  that 
it  provides  working  conditions  and  compensation  that  compare  favorably  with  those  of  its  principal  competitors.  Most 
Company  employees  are  paid  on  an  hourly  basis.  Some  of  the  Company’s  non-U. S.  employees  are  subject  to  labor 
council  relationships  that  vary  due  to  the  diverse  cultures  in  which  the  Company  operates.  The  Company  considers  its 
employee  relations  to  be  good. 

(d)  Financial  Information  about  Geographic  Areas 

Financial  information  about  our  significant  geographic  areas  (U.S.,  International  Division  and  China  Division)  is 
incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Selected  Financial  Data  in  Part  II,  Item  6,  page  22;  Management’s  Discussion  and 
Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results  of  Operations  (“MD&A”)  in  Part  II,  Item  7,  pages  24  through  52;  and  in  the 
related  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  footnotes  in  Part  II,  Item  8,  pages  53  through  106. 


9 


(e)  Available  Information 


The  Company  makes  available  through  the  Investor  Relations  section  of  its  internet  website  at  www.vum.com  its  annual 
report  on  Form  10-K,  quarterly  reports  on  Form  10-Q,  current  reports  on  Form  8-K  and  amendments  to  those  reports  filed 
or  furnished  pursuant  to  Section  13(a)  or  15(d)  of  the  Exchange  Act,  as  soon  as  reasonably  practicable  after  electronically 
filing  such  material  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission.  Our  Corporate  Governance  Principles  and  our  Code 
of  Conduct  are  also  located  within  this  section  of  the  website.  The  reference  to  the  Company’s  website  address  does  not 
constitute  incorporation  by  reference  of  the  information  contained  on  the  website  and  should  not  be  considered  part  of  this 
document.  These  documents,  as  well  as  our  SEC  filings,  are  available  in  print  to  any  shareholder  who  requests  a  copy 
from  our  Investor  Relations  Department. 

Item  1A.  Risk  Factors. 

You  should  carefully  review  the  risks  described  below  as  they  identify  important  factors  that  could  cause  our  actual 
results  to  differ  materially  from  those  in  our  forward-looking  statements  and  historical  trends.  These  risks  are  not 
exclusive,  and  our  business  and  our  results  of  operations  could  also  be  affected  by  other  risks  that  we  cannot  anticipate  or 
that  we  do  not  consider  material  based  on  currently  available  information. 

Food  safety  and  food-borne  illness  concerns  may  have  an  adverse  effect  on  our  business. 

Food  safety  is  a  top  priority,  and  we  dedicate  substantial  resources  to  ensure  that  our  customers  enjoy  safe,  qualify  food 
products.  However,  food-borne  illnesses,  such  as  E.  coli,  hepatitis  A,  trichinosis  or  salmonella,  and  food  safety  issues 
have  occurred  in  the  past  (see  Note  21,  Contingencies,  to  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  Part  II,  Item  8 
of  this  report  for  a  discussion  of  litigation  arising  from  an  E.  coli  outbreak  allegedly  linked  to  a  number  of  Taco  Bell 
restaurants  in  the  Northeast  U.S.  during  November/December  2006),  and  could  occur  in  the  future.  Any  report  or 
publicity  linking  us  or  one  of  our  Concepts  to  instances  of  food-borne  illness  or  other  food  safety  issues,  including  food 
tampering,  could  adversely  affect  our  Concepts’  brands  and  reputations  as  well  as  our  revenues  and  profits.  If  our 
customers  become  ill  from  food-borne  illnesses,  we  could  also  be  forced  to  temporarily  close  some  restaurants.  In 
addition,  instances  of  food-borne  illness  or  food  tampering  occurring  solely  at  restaurants  of  competitors  could  adversely 
affect  our  sales  as  a  result  of  negative  publicity  about  the  Foodservice  industry  generally.  Food-borne  illness  or  food 
tampering  could  also  be  caused  by  food  suppliers  or  distributors  and,  as  a  result,  could  be  out  of  our  control.  The 
occurrence  of  food-home  illnesses  or  food  safety  issues  could  also  adversely  affect  the  price  and  availability  of  affected 
ingredients,  which  could  result  in  disruptions  in  our  supply  chain  and/or  lower  margins  for  us  and  our  franchisees. 

Furthermore,  like  other  companies  in  the  restaurant  industry,  some  of  our  products  may  contain  genetically  engineered 
food  products,  and  our  U.S.  suppliers  are  currently  not  required  to  label  their  products  as  such.  Increased  regulation  of 
and  opposition  to  genetically  engineered  food  products  have  on  occasion  and  may  in  the  future  force  the  use  of  alternative 
sources  at  increased  costs  and  lower  margins  for  us  and  our  franchisees. 

Our  China  operations  subject  us  to  risks  that  could  negatively  affect  our  business. 

A  significant  and  growing  portion  of  our  restaurants  are  located  in  China.  As  a  result,  our  financial  results  are 
increasingly  dependent  on  our  results  in  China,  and  our  business  is  increasingly  exposed  to  risks  there.  These  risks 
include  changes  in  economic  conditions  (including  wage  and  commodify  inflation,  consumer  spending  and  unemployment 
levels),  tax  rates  and  laws  and  consumer  preferences,  as  well  as  changes  in  the  regulatory  environment  and  increased 
competition.  In  addition,  our  results  of  operations  in  China  and  the  value  of  our  Chinese  assets  are  affected  by 
fluctuations  in  currency  exchange  rates,  which  may  favorably  or  adversely  affect  reported  earnings.  There  can  be  no 
assurance  as  to  the  future  effect  of  any  such  changes  on  our  results  of  operations,  financial  condition  or  cash  flows. 


In  addition,  any  significant  or  prolonged  deterioration  in  U.S. -China  relations  could  adversely  affect  our  China  business. 
Many  of  the  risks  and  uncertainties  of  doing  business  in  China  are  solely  within  the  control  of  the  Chinese  government. 
China’s  government  regulates  the  scope  of  our  foreign  investments  and  business  conducted  within  China.  Although 
management  believes  it  has  structured  our  China  operations  to  comply  with  local  laws,  there  are  uncertainties  regarding 
the  interpretation  and  application  of  laws  and  regulations  and  the  enforceability  of  intellectual  property  and  contract  rights 
in  China.  If  we  were  unable  to  enforce  our  intellectual  property  or  contract  rights  in  China,  our  business  would  be 
adversely  impacted. 

Our  other  foreign  operations  subject  us  to  risks  that  could  negatively  affect  our  business. 

A  significant  portion  of  our  restaurants  are  operated  in  foreign  countries  and  territories  outside  of  the  U.S.  and  China,  and 
we  intend  to  continue  expansion  of  our  international  operations.  As  a  result,  our  business  is  increasingly  exposed  to  risks 
inherent  in  foreign  operations.  These  risks,  which  can  vary  substantially  by  market,  include  political  instability, 
corruption,  social  and  ethnic  unrest,  changes  in  economic  conditions  (including  wage  and  commodity  inflation,  consumer 
spending  and  unemployment  levels),  the  regulatory  environment,  tax  rates  and  laws  and  consumer  preferences  as  well  as 
changes  in  the  laws  and  policies  that  govern  foreign  investment  in  countries  where  our  restaurants  are  operated. 

In  addition,  our  results  of  operations  and  the  value  of  our  foreign  assets  are  affected  by  fluctuations  in  foreign  currency 
exchange  rates,  which  may  favorably  or  adversely  affect  reported  earnings.  More  specifically,  an  increase  in  the  value  of 
the  United  States  Dollar  relative  to  other  currencies,  such  as  the  Australian  Dollar,  the  British  Pound,  the  Canadian  Dollar 
and  the  Euro,  could  have  an  adverse  effect  on  our  reported  earnings.  There  can  be  no  assurance  as  to  the  future  effect  of 
any  such  changes  on  our  results  of  operations,  financial  condition  or  cash  flows. 

Changes  in  commodity  and  other  operating  costs  could  adversely  affect  our  results  of  operations. 

Any  increase  in  certain  commodity  prices,  such  as  food,  energy  and  supply  costs,  could  adversely  affect  our  operating 
results.  Because  we  provide  moderately  priced  food,  our  ability  to  pass  along  commodity  price  increases  to  our  customers 
may  be  limited.  Significant  increases  in  gasoline  prices  could  also  result  in  a  decrease  of  customer  traffic  at  our 
restaurants  or  the  imposition  of  fuel  surcharges  by  our  distributors,  each  of  which  could  adversely  affect  our  business. 
Our  operating  expenses  also  include  employee  benefits  and  insurance  costs  (including  workers’  compensation,  general 
liability,  property  and  health)  which  may  increase  over  time. 

Shortages  or  interruptions  in  the  availability  and  delivery  of  food  and  other  supplies  may  increase  costs  or  reduce 
revenues. 

We  are  dependent  upon  third  parties  to  make  frequent  deliveries  of  food  products  and  supplies  that  meet  our  specifications 
at  competitive  prices.  Shortages  or  interruptions  in  the  supply  of  food  items  and  other  supplies  to  our  restaurants  could 
adversely  affect  the  availability,  quality  and  cost  of  items  we  buy  and  the  operations  of  our  restaurants.  Such  shortages  or 
disruptions  could  be  caused  by  inclement  weather,  natural  disasters  such  as  floods,  drought  and  hurricanes,  increased 
demand,  problems  in  production  or  distribution,  the  inability  of  our  vendors  to  obtain  credit,  food  safety  warnings  or 
advisories  or  the  prospect  of  such  pronouncements  (such  as  reports  during  2008  relating  to  tomatoes  and  jalapenos  in  the 
U.S.),  or  other  conditions  beyond  our  control.  A  shortage  or  interruption  in  the  availability  of  certain  food  products  or 
supplies  could  increase  our  costs  and  limit  the  availability  of  products  critical  to  our  restaurant  operations.  In  addition,  if 
a  principal  distributor  for  us  and/or  our  franchisees  fails  to  meet  its  service  requirements  for  any  reason,  it  could  lead  to  a 
disruption  of  service  or  supply  until  a  new  distributor  is  engaged,  which  could  have  an  adverse  effect  on  our  business. 


11 


Our  operating  results  are  closely  tied  to  the  success  of  our  Concepts  ’franchisees. 

We  receive  significant  revenues  in  the  form  of  royalties  from  our  franchisees.  Because  a  significant  and  growing  portion 
of  our  restaurants  are  run  by  franchisees,  the  success  of  our  business  is  increasingly  dependent  upon  the  operational  and 
financial  success  of  our  franchisees.  While  our  franchise  agreements  set  forth  certain  operational  standards  and 
guidelines,  we  have  limited  control  over  how  our  franchisees’  businesses  are  run,  and  any  significant  inability  of  our 
franchisees  to  operate  successfully  could  adversely  affect  our  operating  results  through  decreased  royalty  payments.  For 
example,  franchisees  may  not  have  access  to  the  financial  or  management  resources  that  they  need  to  open  or  continue 
operating  the  restaurants  contemplated  by  their  franchise  agreements  with  us.  In  addition,  franchisees  may  not  be  able  to 
find  suitable  sites  on  which  to  develop  new  restaurants  or  negotiate  acceptable  lease  or  purchase  terms  for  the  sites,  obtain 
the  necessary  permits  and  government  approvals  or  meet  construction  schedules. 

In  addition,  although  in  certain  instances  we  require  franchisees  to  meet  certain  financial  criteria  on  an  ongoing  basis  or  in 
order  to  grow,  franchisees'  levels  of  indebtedness  are  generally  not  within  our  control.  If  our  franchisees  incur  too  much 
debt  or  if  economic  or  sales  trends  deteriorate  such  that  they  are  unable  to  repay  existing  debt,  it  could  result  in  financial 
distress  or  even  possible  insolvency  or  bankruptcy.  If  a  significant  number  of  our  franchisees  become  financially 
distressed,  this  could  harm  our  operating  results  through  reduced  or  delayed  royalty  payments  or  increased  rent 
obligations  for  leased  properties  on  which  we  are  contingently  liable. 

Our  results  and financial  condition  could  be  affected  by  the  success  of  our  refranchising  program. 

We  are  in  the  process  of  a  refranchising  program,  which  could  reduce  the  percentage  of  company  ownership  in  the  U.S., 
excluding  licensees,  from  approximately  19%  at  the  end  of  2008  to  potentially  less  than  10%  by  the  end  of  2010.  Our 
ability  to  execute  this  plan  will  depend  on,  among  other  things,  whether  we  receive  fair  offers  for  our  restaurants,  whether 
we  can  find  viable  and  suitable  buyers  and  how  quickly  we  can  agree  to  terms  with  potential  buyers.  In  addition,  some 
lenders  have  increased  lending  requirements  or  otherwise  reduced  the  amount  of  loans  they  are  making  generally  or  to  the 
restaurant  industry  in  particular.  To  the  extent  potential  buyers  are  unable  to  obtain  financing  at  attractive  prices  -  or 
unable  to  obtain  financing  at  any  price  -  our  refranchising  program  could  be  delayed. 

Once  executed,  the  success  of  the  refranchising  program  will  depend  on,  among  other  things,  selection  of  buyers  who  can 
effectively  operate  our  restaurants,  our  ability  to  limit  our  exposure  to  contingent  liabilities  in  connection  with  the  sale  of 
our  restaurants,  and  whether  the  resulting  ownership  mix  of  Company-operated  and  franchisee-operated  restaurants  allows 
us  to  meet  our  financial  objectives.  In  addition,  refranchising  activity  could  vary  significantly  from  quarter-to-quarter  and 
year-to-year  and  that  volatility  could  impact  our  reported  earnings. 

We  could  be  party  to  litigation  that  could  adversely  affect  us  by  increasing  our  expenses  or  subjecting  us  to  significant 
money  damages  and  other  remedies. 

Like  others  in  the  restaurant  industry,  we  are  susceptible  to  claims  filed  by  customers  alleging  that  we  are  responsible  for 
an  illness  or  injury  they  suffered  at  or  after  a  visit  to  our  restaurants.  Regardless  of  whether  any  claims  against  us  are 
valid,  or  whether  we  are  ultimately  held  liable,  such  litigation  may  be  expensive  to  defend  and  may  divert  time  and  money 
away  from  our  operations  and  hurt  our  performance.  A  judgment  for  significant  monetary  damages  in  excess  of  any 
insurance  coverage  could  adversely  affect  our  financial  condition  or  results  of  operations.  Any  adverse  publicity  resulting 
from  these  allegations  may  also  adversely  affect  our  reputation,  which  in  turn  could  adversely  affect  our  results. 

In  addition,  the  restaurant  industry  has  been  subject  to  claims  that  relate  to  the  nutritional  content  of  food  products,  as  well 
as  claims  that  the  menus  and  practices  of  restaurant  chains  have  led  to  the  obesity  of  some  customers.  We  may  also  be 
subject  to  this  type  of  claim  in  the  future  and,  even  if  we  are  not,  publicity  about  these  matters  (particularly  directed  at  the 
quick  service  and  fast-casual  segments  of  the  industry)  may  harm  our  reputation  and  adversely  affect  our  results. 


12 


reports.c 


Health  concerns  arising  from  outbreaks  of  Avian  Flu  may  have  an  adverse  effect  on  our  business. 

Asian  and  European  countries  have  experienced  outbreaks  of  Avian  Flu,  and  some  commentators  have  hypothesized  that 
further  outbreaks  could  occur  and  reach  pandemic  levels.  While  fully-cooked  chicken  has  been  determined  to  be  safe  for 
consumption,  and  while  we  have  taken  and  continue  to  take  measures  to  prepare  for  and  minimize  the  effect  of  these 
outbreaks  on  our  business,  future  outbreaks  could  adversely  affect  the  price  and  availability  of  poultry  and  cause 
customers  to  eat  less  chicken.  In  addition,  outbreaks  on  a  widespread  basis  could  also  affect  our  ability  to  attract  and 
retain  employees. 

We  may  not  attain  our  target  development  goals. 

Our  growth  strategy  depends  in  large  part  on  our  ability  to  increase  our  net  restaurant  count  in  markets  outside  the  United 
States.  The  successful  development  of  new  units  will  depend  in  large  part  on  our  ability  and  the  ability  of  our  franchisees 
to  open  new  restaurants,  upgrade  existing  restaurants,  and  to  operate  these  restaurants  on  a  profitable  basis.  We  cannot 
guarantee  that  we,  or  our  franchisees,  will  be  able  to  achieve  our  expansion  goals  or  that  new,  upgraded  or  converted 
restaurants  will  be  operated  profitably.  Further,  there  is  no  assurance  that  any  restaurant  we  open  or  convert  will  produce 
operating  results  similar  to  those  of  our  existing  restaurants.  Other  risks  which  could  impact  our  ability  to  increase  our  net 
restaurant  count  include  prevailing  economic  conditions  and  our,  or  our  franchisees’,  ability  to  obtain  suitable  restaurant 
locations,  obtain  required  permits  and  approvals  and  hire  and  train  qualified  personnel. 

Our  franchisees  also  frequently  depend  upon  financing  from  banks  and  other  financial  institutions  in  order  to  construct 
and  open  new  restaurants.  Disruptions  in  credit  markets  may  make  financing  more  difficult  or  expensive  to  obtain.  If  it 
becomes  more  difficult  or  expensive  for  our  franchisees  to  obtain  financing  to  develop  new  restaurants,  our  planned 
growth  could  slow  and  our  future  revenue  and  cash  flows  could  be  adversely  impacted. 

Our  business  may  be  adversely  impacted  by  economic  conditions. 

Our  results  of  operations  are  dependent  upon  discretionary  spending  by  consumers,  which  may  be  affected  by  general 
economic  conditions  and  the  current  global  financial  crisis.  Worldwide  economic  conditions  and  consumer  spending  have 
recently  deteriorated  significantly  and  may  remain  depressed  for  some  time.  Some  of  the  factors  that  are  having  an 
impact  on  discretionary  consumer  spending  include  increased  unemployment,  reductions  in  disposable  income  as  a  result 
of  recent  severe  market  declines  and  declines  in  residential  real  estate  values,  credit  availability  and  consumer  confidence. 
These  and  other  macroeconomic  factors  could  have  an  adverse  effect  on  our  sales  and  development  plans,  which  could 
harm  our  financial  condition  and  operating  results. 

In  addition,  the  current  financial  crisis  has  resulted  in  diminished  liquidity  and  credit  availability,  and  the  recent  or  future 
turmoil  in  the  financial  markets  could  make  it  more  difficult  for  us  to  refinance  our  existing  indebtedness  (if  necessary)  or 
incur  additional  indebtedness  and  could  impact  the  ability  of  banks  to  honor  draws  on  our  existing  credit  facilities. 

The  current  credit  crisis  is  also  having  a  significant  negative  impact  on  businesses  around  the  world,  and  the  impact  of  this 
crisis  on  our  suppliers  cannot  be  predicted.  The  inability  of  suppliers  to  access  financing,  or  the  insolvency  of  suppliers, 
could  lead  to  disruptions  in  our  supply  chain  which  could  adversely  impact  our  sales  and  financial  condition. 

Changes  in  governmental  regulations  may  adversely  affect  our  business  operations. 

We  and  our  franchisees  are  subject  to  various  federal,  state  and  local  regulations.  Each  of  our  restaurants  is  subject  to 
state  and  local  licensing  and  regulation  by  health,  sanitation,  food,  workplace  safety,  fire  and  other  agencies. 
Requirements  of  local  authorities  with  respect  to  zoning,  land  use,  licensing,  permitting  and  environmental  standards 
could  delay  or  prevent  development  of  new  restaurants  in  particular  locations.  In  addition,  we  face  risks  arising  from 
compliance  with  and  enforcement  of  increasingly  complex  federal  and  state  immigration  laws  and  regulations. 


13 


We  are  subject  to  the  Americans  with  Disabilities  Act  and  similar  state  laws  that  give  civil  rights  protections  to 
individuals  with  disabilities  in  the  context  of  employment,  public  accommodations  and  other  areas.  The  expenses 
associated  with  any  facilities  modifications  required  by  these  laws  could  be  material.  Our  operations  are  also  subject  to 
the  U.S.  Fair  Labor  Standards  Act,  which  governs  such  matters  as  minimum  wages,  overtime  and  other  working 
conditions,  family  leave  mandates  and  a  variety  of  similar  state  laws  that  govern  these  and  other  employment  law  matters. 
The  compliance  costs  associated  with  these  laws  and  evolving  regulations  could  be  substantial,  and  any  failure  or  alleged 
failure  to  comply  with  these  laws  could  lead  to  litigation,  which  could  adversely  affect  our  financial  condition. 

We  also  face  risks  from  new  or  changing  laws  and  regulations  relating  to  nutritional  content,  nutritional  labeling,  product 
safety  and  menu  labeling  regulation.  Compliance  with  these  laws  and  regulations  can  be  costly  and  can  increase  our 
exposure  to  litigation  or  governmental  investigations  or  proceedings.  New  or  changing  laws  and  regulations  relating  to 
union  organizing  rights  and  activities  may  impact  our  operations  at  the  restaurant  level  and  increase  our  cost  of  labor.  In 
addition,  we  are  subject  to  laws  relating  to  information  security,  privacy,  cashless  payments  and  consumer  credit, 
protection  and  fraud,  and  any  failure  or  perceived  failure  to  comply  with  those  laws  could  harm  our  reputation  or  lead  to 
litigation,  which  could  adversely  affect  our  financial  condition. 

The  retail  food  industry  in  which  we  operate  is  highly  competitive. 

The  retail  food  industry  in  which  we  operate  is  highly  competitive  with  respect  to  price  and  quality  of  food  products,  new 
product  development,  price,  advertising  levels  and  promotional  initiatives,  customer  service,  reputation,  restaurant 
location,  and  attractiveness  and  maintenance  of  properties.  If  consumer  preferences  change,  or  our  restaurants  are  unable 
to  compete  successfully  with  other  retail  food  outlets  in  new  and  existing  markets,  our  business  could  be  adversely 
affected.  In  the  retail  food  industry,  labor  is  a  primary  operating  cost  component.  Competition  for  qualified  employees 
could  also  require  us  to  pay  higher  wages  to  attract  a  sufficient  number  of  employees,  which  could  adversely  impact  our 
margins. 

Item  IB.  Unresolved  Staff  Comments. 

The  Company  has  received  no  written  comments  regarding  its  periodic  or  current  reports  from  the  staff  of  the  Securities 
and  Exchange  Commission  that  were  issued  180  days  or  more  preceding  the  end  of  its  2008  fiscal  year  and  that  remain 
unresolved. 


14 


Item  2. 


Properties. 


As  of  year  end  2008,  the  Company  owned  more  than  1,500  units  and  leased  land,  building  or  both  in  more  than  5,800 
units  worldwide.  These  units  are  further  detailed  as  follows: 

•  The  Company  owned  more  than  1,100  units  and  leased  land,  building  or  both  in  more  than  2,100  units  in  the  U.S. 

•  The  International  Division  owned  more  than  400  units  and  leased  land,  building  or  both  in  more  than  1,100  units. 

•  The  China  Division  leased  land,  building  or  both  in  more  than  2,600  units. 

Company  restaurants  in  the  U.S.  which  are  not  owned  are  generally  leased  for  initial  terms  of  15  or  20  years  and  generally 
have  renewal  options;  however,  Pizza  Hut  delivery/carryout  units  in  the  U.S.  generally  are  leased  for  significantly  shorter 
initial  terms  with  short  renewal  options.  Company  restaurants  in  the  International  Division  which  are  not  owned  have 
initial  lease  terms  and  renewal  options  that  vary  by  country.  Company  restaurants  in  the  China  Division  are  generally 
leased  for  initial  terms  of  10  to  15  years  and  generally  do  not  have  renewal  options.  Historically,  the  Company  has  either 
been  able  to  renew  its  China  Division  leases  or  enter  into  competitive  leases  at  replacement  sites  without  significant 
impact  on  our  operations,  cash  flows  or  capital  resources.  The  Company  currently  does  not  have  a  significant  number  of 
units  that  it  leases  or  sub-leases  to  franchisees. 

Pizza  Hut  and  YRI  lease  their  corporate  headquarters  and  a  research  facility  in  Dallas,  Texas.  Taco  Bell  leases  its 
corporate  headquarters  and  research  facility  in  Irvine,  California.  YRI  owns  KFC’s,  LJS’s,  A&W’s  and  YUM’s  corporate 
headquarters  and  a  research  facility  in  Louisville,  Kentucky.  In  addition,  YUM  leases  office  facilities  for  certain  support 
groups  in  Louisville,  Kentucky.  The  China  Division  leases  their  corporate  headquarters  and  research  facilities  in 
Shanghai,  China.  Additional  information  about  the  Company’s  properties  is  included  in  the  Consolidated  Financial 
Statements  and  footnotes  in  Part  II,  Item  8,  pages  53  through  106. 

The  Company  believes  that  its  properties  are  generally  in  good  operating  condition  and  are  suitable  for  the  purposes  for 
which  they  are  being  used. 

Item  3.  Legal  Proceedings. 

The  Company  is  subject  to  various  claims  and  contingencies  related  to  lawsuits,  real  estate,  environmental  and  other 
matters  arising  in  the  normal  course  of  business.  The  Company  believes  that  the  ultimate  liability,  if  any,  in  excess  of 
amounts  already  provided  for  these  matters  in  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements,  is  not  likely  to  have  a  material 
adverse  effect  on  the  Company’s  annual  results  of  operations,  financial  condition  or  cash  flows.  The  following  is  a  brief 
description  of  the  more  significant  of  the  categories  of  lawsuits  and  other  matters  we  face  from  time  to  time.  Descriptions 
of  specific  claims  and  contingencies  appear  in  Note  21,  Contingencies,  to  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included 
in  Part  II,  Item  8. 


15 


Franchising 


A  substantial  number  of  the  restaurants  of  each  of  the  Concepts  are  franchised  to  independent  businesses  operating  under 
arrangements  with  the  Concepts.  In  the  course  of  the  franchise  relationship,  occasional  disputes  arise  between  the 
Company  and  its  Concepts’  franchisees  relating  to  a  broad  range  of  subjects,  including,  without  limitation,  quality, 
service,  and  cleanliness  issues,  contentions  regarding  grants,  transfers  or  terminations  of  franchises,  territorial  disputes 
and  delinquent  payments. 

Suppliers 

The  Company,  through  approved  distributors,  purchases  food,  paper,  equipment  and  other  restaurant  supplies  from 
numerous  independent  suppliers  throughout  the  world.  These  suppliers  are  required  to  meet  and  maintain  compliance 
with  the  Company’s  standards  and  specifications.  On  occasion,  disputes  arise  between  the  Company  and  its  suppliers  on 
a  number  of  issues,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  compliance  with  product  specifications  and  terms  of  procurement  and 
service  requirements. 

Employees 

At  any  given  time,  the  Company  or  its  affiliates  employ  hundreds  of  thousands  of  persons,  primarily  in  its  restaurants.  In 
addition,  each  year  thousands  of  persons  seek  employment  with  the  Company  and  its  restaurants.  From  time  to  time, 
disputes  arise  regarding  employee  hiring,  compensation,  termination  and  promotion  practices. 

Like  other  retail  employers,  the  Company  has  been  faced  in  a  few  states  with  allegations  of  purported  class-wide  wage 
and  hour  and  other  labor  law  violations. 

Customers 

The  Company’s  restaurants  serve  a  large  and  diverse  cross-section  of  the  public  and  in  the  course  of  serving  so  many 
people,  disputes  arise  regarding  products,  service,  accidents  and  other  matters  typical  of  large  restaurant  systems  such  as 
those  of  the  Company. 

Intellectual  Property 

The  Company  has  registered  trademarks  and  service  marks,  many  of  which  are  of  material  importance  to  the  Company’s 
business.  From  time  to  time,  the  Company  may  become  involved  in  litigation  to  defend  and  protect  its  use  and  ownership 
of  its  registered  marks. 


16 


Item  4.  Submission  of  Matters  to  a  Vote  of  Security  Holders. 

No  matters  were  submitted  to  a  vote  of  shareholders  during  the  fourth  quarter  of  2008. 

Executive  Officers  of  the  Registrant 

The  executive  officers  of  the  Company  as  of  February  11,  2009,  and  their  ages  and  current  positions  as  of  that  date  are  as 
follows: 

David  C.  Novak,  56,  is  Chairman  of  the  Board,  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  President  of  YUM.  He  has  served  in  this 
position  since  January  2001.  From  December  1999  to  January  2001,  Mr.  Novak  served  as  Vice  Chairman  of  the  Board, 
Chief  Executive  Officer  and  President  of  YUM.  From  October  1997  to  December  1999,  he  served  as  Vice  Chairman  and 
President  of  YUM.  Mr.  Novak  previously  served  as  Group  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer,  KFC  and  Pizza  Hut 
from  August  1996  to  July  1997. 

Richard  T.  Carucci,  51,  is  Chief  Financial  Officer  for  YUM.  He  has  served  in  this  position  since  March  2005.  From 
October  2004  to  February  2005,  he  served  as  Senior  Vice  President,  Finance  and  Chief  Financial  Officer  -  Designate  of 
YUM.  From  May  2003  to  October  2004,  he  served  as  Executive  Vice  President  and  Chief  Development  Officer  of  YRI. 
From  November  2002  to  May  2003,  he  served  as  Senior  Vice  President  for  YRI  and  also  assisted  Pizza  Hut  in  asset 
strategy  development.  FromNovember  1999  to  July  2002,  he  was  Chief  Financial  Officer  of  YRI. 

Christian  L.  Campbell,  58,  is  Senior  Vice  President,  General  Counsel,  Secretary  and  Chief  Franchise  Policy  Officer  for 
YUM.  He  has  served  as  Senior  Vice  President,  General  Counsel  and  Secretary  since  September  1997.  In  January  2003, 
his  title  and  job  responsibilities  were  expanded  to  include  Chief  Franchise  Policy  Officer. 

Jonathan  D.  Blum,  50,  is  Senior  Vice  President  Public  Affairs  for  YUM.  He  has  served  in  this  position  since  July  1997. 

Anne  P.  Byerlein,  50,  is  Chief  People  Officer  for  YUM.  She  has  served  in  this  position  since  December  2002.  From 
October  1997  to  December  2002,  she  was  Vice  President  of  Human  Resources  of  YUM.  From  October  2000  to 
December  2002,  she  also  served  as  KFC’s  Chief  People  Officer. 

Ted  F.  Knopf,  57,  is  Senior  Vice  President  Finance  and  Corporate  Controller  of  YUM.  He  has  served  in  this  position 
since  April  2005.  From  September  2001  to  April  2005,  Mr.  Knopf  served  as  Vice  President  of  Corporate  Planning  and 
Strategy  of  YUM. 

Emil  J.  Brolick,  61,  is  Chief  Operating  Officer  for  YUM.  He  has  served  as  Chief  Operating  Officer  since  June  2008. 
Prior  to  this  position,  he  served  as  President  of  U.S.  Brand  Building,  a  position  he  held  from  December  2006  to  June 
2008.  Prior  to  that,  he  served  as  President  and  Chief  Concept  Officer  of  Taco  Bell,  a  position  he  held  from  July  2000  to 
November  2006.  Prior  to  joining  Taco  Bell,  Mr.  Brolick  served  as  Senior  Vice  President  of  New  Product  Marketing, 
Research  &  Strategic  Planning  for  Wendy’s  International,  Inc.  from  August  1995  to  July  2000. 

Scott  O.  Bergren,  62,  is  President  and  Chief  Concept  Officer  of  Pizza  Hut.  He  has  served  in  this  position  since 
November  2006.  Prior  to  this  position,  he  served  as  Chief  Marketing  Officer  of  KFC  and  YUM  from  August  2003  to 
November  2006.  From  September  2002  until  July  2003,  he  was  the  Executive  Vice  President,  Marketing  and  Chief 
Concept  Officer  for  YUM  Restaurants  International,  Inc.  From  April  2002  until  September  2002,  he  was  Senior  Vice 
President  New  Concepts  for  YUM  Restaurants  International,  Inc.  From  June  1995  until  2002,  he  was  Chief  Executive 
Officer  of  Chevy’s  Mexican  Restaurants,  Inc. 

Greg  Creed,  51,  is  President  and  Chief  Concept  Officer  of  Taco  Bell.  He  has  served  in  this  position  since  December 
2006.  Prior  to  this  position,  Mr.  Creed  served  as  Chief  Operating  Officer  of  YUM  from  December  2005  to  November 
2006.  Mr.  Creed  served  as  Chief  Marketing  Officer  of  Taco  Bell  from  July  2001  to  October  2005. 


17 


Roger  Eaton,  48,  is  President  and  Chief  Concept  Officer  of  KFC.  He  has  served  in  this  position  since  June  2008.  From 
April  2008  to  June  2008,  he  served  as  Chief  Operating  and  Development  Officer  of  YUM.  From  January  2008  until  April 
2008,  he  served  as  Chief  Operating  and  Development  Officer  -  Designate.  From  2000  until  January  2008,  he  was  Senior 
Vice  President/Managing  Director  of  YUM!  Restaurants  International  South  Pacific. 

Graham  D.  Allan,  53,  is  the  President  of  YRI.  He  has  served  in  this  position  since  November  2003.  Immediately  prior  to 
this  position  he  served  as  Executive  Vice  President  of  YRI.  From  December  2000  to  May  2003,  Mr.  Allan  was  the 
Managing  Director  of  YRI. 

Jing-Shyh  S.  Su,  56,  is  Vice-Chairman  of  the  Board  and  President  of  YUM  Restaurants  China.  He  has  served  as  Vice- 
Chairman  of  the  Board  since  March  2008,  and  he  has  served  as  President  of  YUM  Restaurants  China  since  1997.  Prior  to 
this,  he  was  the  Vice  President  of  North  Asia  for  both  KFC  and  Pizza  Hut.  Mr.  Su  started  his  career  with  YUM  in  1989  as 
KFC  International’s  Director  of  Marketing  for  the  North  Pacific  area. 

Executive  officers  are  elected  by  and  serve  at  the  discretion  of  the  Board  of  Directors. 


18 


PART  II 

Item  5.  Market  for  the  Registrant’s  Common  Stock,  Related  Stockholder  Matters  and  Issuer  Purchases  of 

Equity  Securities. 

The  Company’s  Common  Stock  trades  under  the  symbol  YUM  and  is  listed  on  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange  (“NYSE”). 
The  following  sets  forth  the  high  and  low  NYSE  composite  closing  sale  prices  by  quarter  for  the  Company’s  Common 
Stock  and  dividends  per  common  share.  All  per  share  and  share  amounts  herein  have  been  adjusted  for  the  two-for-one 
stock  split  on  June  26,  2007. 


2008 


Quarter 

High 

Low 

Dividends 

Declared 

Dividends 

Paid 

First 

$  39.00 

$  33.12 

$  0.15 

$  0.15 

Second 

41.34 

36.85 

0.19 

0.15 

Third 

38.68 

33.78 

— 

0.19 

Fourth 

39.23 

22.25 

0.38 

0.19 

2007 

Dividends 

Dividends 

Quarter 

High 

Low 

Declared 

Paid 

First 

$  31.03 

$  27.69 

$  — 

$  0.075 

Second 

34.37 

28.85 

0.15 

0.15 

Third 

34.80 

29.62 

— 

0.15 

Fourth 

40.27 

31.45 

0.30 

0.15 

In  2007,  the  Company  declared  three  cash  dividends  of  $0. 15  per  share  of  Common  Stock,  one  of  which  was  paid  in  2008. 
In  2008,  the  Company  declared  one  cash  dividend  of  $0.15  per  share  of  Common  Stock  and  three  cash  dividends  of  $0.19 
per  share  of  Common  Stock,  one  of  which  had  a  distribution  date  of  February  6,  2009.  The  Company  is  targeting  an 
annual  dividend  payout  ratio  of  35%  to  40%  of  net  income. 

As  of  February  1 1 ,  2009,  there  were  approximately  8 1 ,000  registered  holders  of  record  of  the  Company’s  Common  Stock. 
The  Company  had  no  sales  of  unregistered  securities  during  2008,  2007  or  2006. 


19 


Issuer  Purchases  of  Equity  Securities 


The  following  table  provides  information  as  of  December  27,  2008  with  respect  to  shares  of  Common  Stock  repurchased 
by  the  Company  during  the  quarter  then  ended: 


Total  number  of  Approximate  dollar 
shares  purchased  value  of  shares  that 


Fiscal  Periods 

Total  number 

of  shares 
purchased 

Average 
price  paid  per 
share 

as  part  of  publicly 
announced  plans 
or  programs 

may  yet  be 
purchased  under  the 
plans  or  programs 

Period  10 

9/7/08  -  10/4/08 

- 

$ 

- 

- 

$  563,376,204 

Period  1 1 

10/5/08-11/1/08 

3,269,400 

$ 

27.08 

3,269,400 

$  474,840,412 

Period  12 

11/2/08-11/29/08 

1,089,500 

$ 

24.96 

1,089,500 

$  447,649,895 

Period  13 

11/30/08-12/27/08 

- 

$ 

- 

- 

$  447,649,895 

Total 

4,358,900 

$ 

26.55 

4,358,900 

$  447,649,895 

In  January  2008,  our  Board  of  Directors  authorized  additional  share  repurchases  of  up  to  an  additional  $1.25  billion 
(excluding  applicable  transaction  fees)  of  our  outstanding  Common  Stock.  For  the  quarter  ended  December  27,  2008, 
approximately  4.4  million  shares  were  repurchased  under  this  authorization.  This  authorization  expired  in  January  2009. 


20 


Stock  Performance  Graph 


This  graph  compares  the  cumulative  total  return  of  our  Common  Stock  to  the  cumulative  total  return  of  the  S&P  500 
Stock  Index  and  the  S&P  500  Consumer  Discretionary  Sector,  a  peer  group  that  includes  YUM,  for  the  period  from 
December  26,  2003  to  December  26,  2008,  the  last  trading  day  of  our  2008  fiscal  year.  The  graph  assumes  that  the  value 
of  the  investment  in  our  Common  Stock  and  each  index  was  $100  at  December  26,  2003  and  that  all  dividends  were 
reinvested. 


YUM!  -  ~  -  S&P  500  —  —  S&P  Consumer  Discretionary 


12/26/03  12/23/04  12/30/05  12/29/06  12/28/07  12/27/08 


YUM!  $  100 

S&P  500  $  100 

S&P  Consumer 
Discretionary  $  100 


$  138  $  141  $ 

$  112  $  118  $ 

$  113  $  108  $ 


179  $  239  $  191 

137  $  145  $  88 

128  $  111  $  70 


21 


Item  6.  Selected  Financial  Data. 

Selected  Financial  Data 

YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries 

(in  millions,  except  per  share  and  unit  amounts) 


Fiscal  Year 


2008 

2007 

2006 

2005 

2004 

Summary  of  Operations 

Revenues 

Company  sales 

$ 

9,843 

$ 

9,100 

$ 

8,365 

$ 

8,225 

$ 

7,992 

Franchise  and  license  fees 

1.436 

1.316 

1.196 

1.124 

1.019 

Total 

11.279 

10.416 

9.561 

9.349 

9.011 

Closures  and  impairment  income  (expenses)® 

(43) 

(35) 

(59) 

(62) 

(38) 

Tefranchising  gain  (loss)® 

5 

11 

24 

43 

12 

Operating  Profit® 

1,506 

1,357 

1,262 

1.153 

1,155 

Interest  expense,  net 

226 

166 

154 

127 

129 

Income  before  income  taxes 

1,280 

1,191 

1,108 

1,026 

1,026 

Net  income 

964 

909 

824 

762 

740 

Basic  earnings  per  common  share® 

2.03 

1.74 

1.51 

1.33 

1.27 

Diluted  earnings  per  common  share® 

1.96 

1.68 

1.46 

1.28 

1.21 

Cash  Flow  Data 

Provided  by  operating  activities 

$ 

1,521 

$ 

1,551 

$ 

1,257 

$ 

1,233 

$ 

1,186 

Capital  spending,  excluding  acquisitions 

935 

726 

572 

609 

645 

Proceeds  from  refranchising  of  restaurants 

266 

117 

257 

145 

140 

Repurchase  shares  of  Common  Stock 

1,628 

1,410 

983 

1,056 

569 

Dividends  paid  on  Common  Stock 

322 

273 

144 

123 

58 

Balance  Sheet 

Total  assets 

$ 

6,527 

$ 

7,188 

$ 

6,368 

$ 

5,797 

$ 

5,696 

Long-term  debt 

3,564 

2,924 

2,045 

1,649 

1,731 

Total  debt 

3,589 

3,212 

2,272 

1,860 

1,742 

Other  Data 

Number  of  stores  at  year  end 

Company 

7,568 

7,625 

7,736 

7,587 

7,743 

Unconsolidated  Affiliates 

645 

1,314 

1,206 

1,648 

1,662 

Franchisees 

25,911 

24,297 

23,516 

22,666 

21,858 

Licensees 

2,168 

2,109 

2,137 

2,376 

2,345 

System 

36,292 

35,345 

34,595 

34,277 

33,608 

U.S.  same  store  sales  growth® 

YRI  system  sales  growth® 

2% 

- 

1% 

3% 

3% 

Reported 

10% 

15% 

7% 

9% 

14% 

Local  currency® 

China  Division  system  sales  growth® 

8% 

10% 

7% 

6% 

6% 

Reported 

31% 

31% 

26% 

13% 

23% 

Local  currency® 

20% 

24% 

23% 

11% 

23% 

Shares  outstanding  at  year  end® 

459 

499 

530 

556 

581 

Cash  dividends  declared  per  Common  Stock® 

$ 

0.72 

$ 

0.45 

$ 

0.43 

$ 

0.22 

$ 

0.15 

Market  price  per  share  at  year  end  ® 

$ 

30.28 

$ 

38.54 

$ 

29.40 

$ 

23.44 

$ 

23.14 

22 


Fiscal  years  2008,  2007,  2006  and  2004  include  52  weeks  and  fiscal  year  2005  includes  53  weeks. 

Fiscal  years  2008,  2007,  2006  and  2005  include  the  impact  of  the  adoption  of  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting 
Standards  (“SFAS”)  No.  123R  (Revised  2004),  “Share  Based  Payment,”  (“SFAS  123R”).  If  SFAS  123R  had  been 
effective  for  2004  both  reported  basic  and  diluted  earnings  per  share  would  have  decreased  $0.06  consistent  with  pro¬ 
forma  information  that  was  disclosed  previous  to  that  date. 

The  selected  financial  data  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  the  Notes 
thereto. 

(a)  See  Note  5  to  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  a  description  of  Closures  and  Impairment  Expenses  and 
Refranchising  Gain  (Loss)  in  2008,  2007  and  2006. 

(b)  Fiscal  year  2008  included  a  gain  of  approximately  $100  million  related  to  the  sale  of  our  interest  in  our 
unconsolidated  affiliate  in  Japan  and  $61  million  expense  related  to  U.S.  business  transformation  measures  as 
discussed  in  the  Significant  Gains  and  Charges  section  of  the  MD&A.  Fiscal  year  2004  included  $30  million  of 
income  related  to  Wrench  litigation  and  AmeriServe.  The  Wrench  litigation  relates  to  a  lawsuit  against  Taco 
Bell  Corporation,  which  was  settled  in  2004,  and  the  income  was  a  result  of  financial  recoveries  from 
settlements  with  insurance  carriers.  Amounts  related  to  AmeriServe  are  the  result  of  cash  recoveries  related  to 
the  AmeriServe  bankruptcy  reorganization  process  for  which  we  incurred  significant  expense  in  years  prior  to 
those  presented  here  (primarily  2000).  AmeriServe  was  formerly  our  primary  distributor  of  food  and  paper 
supplies  to  our  U.S.  stores. 

(c)  Adjusted  for  the  two  for  one  stock  split  on  June  26, 2007.  See  Note  3  to  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements. 

(d)  System  sales  growth  includes  the  results  of  all  restaurants  regardless  of  ownership,  including  Company  owned, 
franchise,  unconsolidated  affiliate  and  license  restaurants.  Sales  of  franchise,  unconsolidated  affiliate  and 
license  restaurants  generate  franchise  and  license  fees  for  the  Company  (typically  at  a  rate  of  4%  to  6%  of  sales). 
Franchise,  unconsolidated  affiliate  and  license  restaurant  sales  are  not  included  in  Company  sales  we  present  on 
the  Consolidated  Statements  of  Income;  however,  the  fees  are  included  in  the  Company’s  revenues.  We  believe 
system  sales  growth  is  useful  to  investors  as  a  significant  indicator  of  the  overall  strength  of  our  business  as  it 
incorporates  all  our  revenue  drivers,  Company  and  franchise  same  store  sales  as  well  as  net  unit  development. 
Same  store  sales  growth  includes  the  results  of  all  restaurants  that  have  been  open  one  year  or  more. 
Additionally,  we  began  reporting  information  for  our  international  business  in  two  separate  operating  segments 
(the  International  Division  and  the  China  Division)  in  2005  as  a  result  of  changes  in  our  management  structure. 
Segment  information  for  periods  prior  to  2005  has  been  restated  to  reflect  this  reporting. 

(e)  Local  currency  represents  the  percentage  change  excluding  the  impact  of  foreign  currency  translation.  These 
amounts  are  derived  by  translating  current  year  results  at  prior  year  average  exchange  rates.  We  believe  the 
elimination  of  the  foreign  currency  translation  impact  provides  better  year-to-year  comparability  without  the 
distortion  of  foreign  currency  fluctuations. 


23 


Item  7. 


Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results  of  Operations. 


Introduction  and  Overview 

The  following  Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  (“MD&A”),  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  Consolidated 
Financial  Statements  on  pages  56  through  59  (“Financial  Statements”)  and  the  Forward-Looking  Statements  on  page  2 
and  the  Risk  Factors  set  forth  in  Item  1A.  Throughout  the  MD&A,  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  (“YUM”  or  the  “Company”) 
makes  reference  to  certain  performance  measures  as  described  below. 

•  The  Company  provides  the  percentage  changes  excluding  the  impact  of  foreign  currency  translation.  These  amounts 
are  derived  by  translating  current  year  results  at  prior  year  average  exchange  rates.  We  believe  the  elimination  of  the 
foreign  currency  translation  impact  provides  better  year-to-year  comparability  without  the  distortion  of  foreign 
currency  fluctuations. 

•  System  sales  growth  includes  the  results  of  all  restaurants  regardless  of  ownership,  including  Company-owned, 
franchise,  unconsolidated  affiliate  and  license  restaurants.  Sales  of  franchise,  unconsolidated  affiliate  and  license 
restaurants  generate  franchise  and  license  fees  for  the  Company  (typically  at  a  rate  of  4%  to  6%  of  sales).  Franchise, 
unconsolidated  affiliate  and  license  restaurant  sales  are  not  included  in  Company  sales  on  the  Consolidated 
Statements  of  Income;  however,  the  franchise  and  license  fees  are  included  in  the  Company’s  revenues.  We  believe 
system  sales  growth  is  useful  to  investors  as  a  significant  indicator  of  the  overall  strength  of  our  business  as  it 
incorporates  all  of  our  revenue  drivers,  Company  and  franchise  same  store  sales  as  well  as  net  unit  development. 

•  Same  store  sales  is  the  estimated  growth  in  sales  of  all  restaurants  that  have  been  open  one  year  or  more. 

•  Company  restaurant  margin  as  a  percentage  of  sales  is  defined  as  Company  sales  less  expenses  incurred  directly  by 
our  Company  restaurants  in  generating  Company  sales  divided  by  Company  sales. 

•  Operating  margin  is  defined  as  Operating  Profit  divided  by  Total  revenue. 

All  Note  references  herein  refer  to  the  Notes  to  the  Financial  Statements  on  pages  60  through  106.  Tabular  amounts  are 
displayed  in  millions  except  per  share  and  unit  count  amounts,  or  as  otherwise  specifically  identified.  All  per  share  and 
share  amounts  herein,  and  in  the  accompanying  Financial  Statements  and  Notes  to  the  Financial  Statements  have  been 
adjusted  to  reflect  the  June  26,  2007  stock  split  (see  Note  3). 

Description  of  Business 

YUM  is  the  world’s  largest  restaurant  company  in  terms  of  system  restaurants  with  over  36,000  restaurants  in  more  than 
110  countries  and  territories  operating  under  the  KFC,  Pizza  Hut,  Taco  Bell,  Long  John  Silver’s  or  A&W  All-American 
Food  Restaurants  brands.  Four  of  the  Company’s  restaurant  brands  -  KFC,  Pizza  Hut,  Taco  Bell  and  Long  John  Silver’s 
-  are  the  global  leaders  in  the  chicken,  pizza,  Mexican-style  food  and  quick-service  seafood  categories,  respectively.  Of 
the  over  36,000  restaurants,  21%  are  operated  by  the  Company,  73%  are  operated  by  franchisees  and  unconsolidated 
affiliates  and  6%  are  operated  by  licensees. 

YUM’s  business  consists  of  three  reporting  segments:  United  States,  YUM  Restaurants  International  (“YRI”  or 
“International  Division”)  and  the  China  Division.  The  China  Division  includes  mainland  China  (“China”),  Thailand  and 
KFC  Taiwan  and  YRI  includes  the  remainder  of  our  international  operations.  The  China  Division  and  YRI  have  been 
experiencing  dramatic  growth  and  now  represent  nearly  60%  of  the  Company’s  operating  profits.  The  U.S.  business 
operates  in  a  highly  competitive  marketplace  resulting  in  slower  profit  growth,  but  continues  to  produce  strong  cash  flows. 


Strategies 

The  Company  continues  to  focus  on  four  key  strategies: 

Build  Leading  Brands  in  China  in  Every  Significant  Category  -  The  Company  has  developed  the  KFC  and  Pizza  Hut 
brands  into  the  leading  quick  service  and  casual  dining  restaurants,  respectively,  in  mainland  China.  Additionally,  the 
Company  owns  and  operates  the  distribution  system  for  its  restaurants  in  mainland  China  which  we  believe  provides  a 
significant  competitive  advantage.  Given  this  strong  competitive  position,  a  rapidly  growing  economy  and  a  population 
of  1.3  billion  in  mainland  China,  the  Company  is  rapidly  adding  KFC  and  Pizza  Hut  Casual  Dining  restaurants  and  testing 
the  additional  restaurant  concepts  of  Pizza  Hut  Home  Service  (pizza  delivery)  and  East  Dawning  (Chinese  food).  Our 
ongoing  earnings  growth  model  includes  annual  system-sales  growth  of  20%  in  mainland  China  driven  by  new  unit 
development  each  year,  which  we  expect  to  drive  annual  operating  profit  growth  of  20%  in  the  China  Division. 

Drive  Aggressive  International  Expansion  and  Build  Strong  Brands  Everywhere  -  The  Company  and  its  franchisees 
opened  over  900  new  restaurants  in  2008  in  the  Company’s  International  Division,  representing  9  straight  years  of 
opening  over  700  restaurants.  The  International  Division  generated  $528  million  in  Operating  Profit  in  2008  up  from 
$186  million  in  1998.  The  Company  expects  to  continue  to  experience  strong  growth  by  building  out  existing  markets 
and  growing  in  new  markets  including  India,  France  and  Russia.  Our  ongoing  earnings  growth  model  includes  annual 
operating  profit  growth  of  10%  driven  by  new  unit  development  and  same  store  sales  growth  for  the  International 
Division.  New  unit  development  is  expected  to  contribute  to  system  sales  growth  of  at  least  6%  each  year. 

Dramatically  Improve  U.S.  Brand  Positions,  Consistency  and  Returns  -  The  Company  continues  to  focus  on  improving  its 
U.S.  position  through  differentiated  products  and  marketing  and  an  improved  customer  experience.  The  Company  also 
strives  to  provide  industry  leading  new  product  innovation  which  adds  sales  layers  and  expands  day  parts.  We  are  the 
leader  in  multibranding,  with  more  than  4,600  restaurants  providing  customers  two  or  more  of  our  brands  at  a  single 
location.  We  continue  to  evaluate  our  returns  and  ownership  positions  with  an  earn  the  right  to  own  philosophy  on 
Company  owned  restaurants.  Our  ongoing  earnings  growth  model  calls  for  annual  operating  profit  growth  of  5%  in  the 
U.S.  with  same  store  sales  growth  of  2%  to  3%  and  leverage  of  our  General  and  Administrative  (“G&A”)  infrastructure. 

Drive  Industry-Leading,  Long-Term  Shareholder  and  Franchisee  Value  -  The  Company  is  focused  on  delivering  high 
returns  and  returning  substantial  cash  flows  to  its  shareholders  via  share  repurchases  and  dividends.  The  Company  has 
one  of  the  highest  returns  on  invested  capital  in  the  Quick  Service  Restaurants  (“QSR”)  industry.  Additionally,  2008  was 
the  fourth  consecutive  year  in  which  the  Company  returned  over  $1.1  billion  to  its  shareholders  through  share  repurchases 
and  dividends.  The  Company  is  targeting  an  annual  dividend  payout  ratio  of  35%  to  40%  of  net  income. 

Details  of  our  2009  Guidance  by  division  can  be  found  online  at  http://www.vum.com/investors/news.asp  and 
http://investors. vum.com/phoenix.zhtml?c= 117941 &p=irol-newsEamings.  The  fourth  quarter  earnings  release  included 
preliminary  and  unaudited  Consolidated  Statements  of  Cash  Flows  and  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets,  which  have  been 
updated  in  this  Form  10-K. 

2008  Highlights 

•  Worldwide  system  sales  growth  of  7%,  excluding  foreign  currency  translation 

•  Worldwide  same  store  sales  growth  of  3% 

•  Record  international  development  of  1 ,495  new  units 

•  Worldwide  Operating  Profit  growth  of  11%,  including  a  3%,  or  $39  million,  positive  impact  as  described  in  the 
Significant  Gains  and  Charges  section  of  this  MD&A 

•  Operating  Profit  growth  of  25%  in  the  China  Division  and  10%  in  the  YRI  Division,  partially  offset  by  a  6%  decline 
in  the  U.S. 

•  Record  shareholder  payout  of  nearly  $2  billion  through  share  buybacks  and  dividends,  with  share  buybacks  reducing 
average  diluted  share  counts  by  9% 


25 


Significant  Known  Events,  Trends  or  Uncertainties  Impacting  or  Expected  to  Impact  Comparisons  of  Reported  or 
Future  Results 

The  following  factors  impacted  comparability  of  operating  performance  for  the  years  ended  December  27,  2008, 
December  29,  2007  and  December  30,  2006  and  could  impact  comparability  with  our  results  in  2009. 

U.S.  Restaurant  Profit 

Our  U.S.  restaurant  margin  as  a  percentage  of  sales  decreased  0.8  percentage  points  in  2008  and  decreased  1.3  percentage 
points  in  2007.  These  decreases  were  the  primary  drivers  in  the  U.S.  Operating  Profit  declines  of  6%  and  3%  for  the  years 
ended  December  27,  2008  and  December  29,  2007,  respectively. 

Restaurant  profit  in  dollar  terms  was  negatively  impacted  by  $119  milhon  of  commodity  inflation  for  the  full  year  2008. 
Additionally,  restaurant  profit  in  2008  was  negatively  impacted  by  $30  million  due  to  higher  property  and  casualty  self 
insurance  expense,  exclusive  of  the  estimated  reduction  due  to  refranchised  stores,  as  we  lapped  favorability  in  2007. 
These  decreases  were  partially  offset  by  Company  same  store  sales  growth  of  3%  resulting  from  pricing  actions  we  have 
taken. 

In  2007,  restaurant  profit  was  negatively  impacted  versus  2006  by  Company  same  store  sales  declines  of  3%  (primarily 
due  to  Taco  Bell)  and  $44  million  of  commodity  inflation.  This  unfavorability  was  partially  offset  by  $27  milhon  of 
lower  self-insured  property  and  casualty  insurance  expense,  exclusive  of  the  estimated  reduction  due  to  refranchised 
stores,  driven  by  improved  loss  trends. 

We  anticipate  that  the  U.S.  restaurant  margin  as  a  percentage  of  sales  will  improve  approximately  1%  for  the  full  year 
2009  as  a  result  of  pricing  actions  we  have  taken  and  the  moderation  of  commodity  inflation. 

China  Restaurant  Profit 

China  Division  restaurant  margin  as  a  percentage  of  sales  was  18.4%,  20.1%  and  20.4%  for  2008,  2007  and  2006, 
respectively.  The  declines  in  2008  and  2007  were  driven  by  commodity  inflation,  primarily  chicken,  of  approximately 
$78  million  and  $34  million,  respectively,  and  higher  labor  costs.  The  decreases  were  partially  offset  by  the  impact  of 
same  store  sales  growth  on  restaurant  margin.  In  the  China  Division,  we  expect  that  commodity  inflation  will  moderate  as 
2009  progresses  and  restaurant  margin  will  be  at  least  flat  versus  2008. 

Impact  of  Foreign  Currency  Translation  on  Operating  Profit 

Changes  in  foreign  currency  exchange  rates  positively  impacted  the  translation  of  our  foreign  currency  denominated 
Operating  Profit  in  our  International  and  China  Divisions  by  $9  million  and  $41  million,  respectively,  for  the  year  ended 
December  27,  2008  and  $24  million  and  $19  million,  respectively,  for  the  year  ended  December  29,  2007.  In  2009,  we 
currently  expect  foreign  currency  translation  to  have  a  significant  negative  impact  on  our  reported  International  Division 
Operating  Profit  and  no  significant  impact  on  our  reported  China  Division  Operating  Profit.  Given  the  nature  and 
volatility  of  the  foreign  currency  markets  the  full  year  forecasted  foreign  currency  impact  is  difficult  to  quantify. 
However,  for  the  first  quarter  of  2009  we  currently  expect  a  $20  million  negative  impact  on  YRI’s  Operating  Profit  and  a 
similar  impact  for  the  second  quarter  of  2009. 


26 


Consolidation  of  a  Former  Unconsolidated  Affiliate  in  China 


In  2008,  we  began  consolidating  an  entity  in  which  we  have  a  majority  ownership  interest  and  that  operates  the  KFCs  in 
Beijing,  China.  Our  partners  in  this  entity  are  essentially  state-owned  enterprises.  We  historically  did  not  consolidate  this 
entity,  instead  accounting  for  the  unconsolidated  affiliate  using  the  equity  method  of  accounting,  due  to  the  effective 
participation  of  our  partners  in  the  significant  decisions  of  the  entity  that  were  made  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business  as 
addressed  in  Emerging  Issues  Task  Force  ("EITF")  Issue  No.  96-16,  "Investor's  Accounting  for  an  Investee  When  the 
Investor  Has  a  Majority  of  the  Voting  Interest  but  the  Minority  Shareholder  or  Shareholders  Have  Certain  Approval  or 
Veto  Rights".  Concurrent  with  a  decision  that  we  made  on  January  1,  2008  regarding  top  management  of  the  entity,  we 
no  longer  believe  that  our  partners  effectively  participate  in  the  decisions  that  are  made  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business. 
Accordingly,  we  began  consolidating  this  entity. 

Like  our  other  unconsolidated  affiliates,  the  accounting  for  this  entity  prior  to  2008  resulted  in  royalties  being  reflected  as 
Franchise  and  license  fees  and  our  share  of  the  entity’s  net  income  being  reflected  in  Other  (income)  expense.  The  impact 
on  our  Consolidated  Statement  of  Income  for  the  year  ended  December  27,  2008  as  a  result  of  our  consolidation  of  this 
entity  was  as  follows: 


Increase  (Decrease) 

Company  sales  $  299 

Company  restaurant  expenses  237 

Franchise  and  license  fees  (19) 

General  and  administrative  expenses  6 

Other  (income)  expense  _ (30) _ 

Operating  Profit  7 


The  impact  on  Other  (income)  expense  includes  both  the  current  year  minority  interest  in  pre-tax  earnings  of  the 
unconsolidated  affiliate  as  well  as  the  reduction  in  Other  (income)  expense  that  resulted  from  our  share  of  after-tax 
earnings  no  longer  being  reported  in  Other  (income)  expense.  The  increase  in  Operating  Profit  was  offset  by  a 
corresponding  increase  in  Income  tax  provision  such  that  there  was  no  impact  to  Net  Income. 

Significant  Gains  and  Charges 

As  part  of  our  plan  to  transform  our  U.S.  business  we  took  several  measures  in  2008  that  we  do  not  believe  are  indicative 
of  our  ongoing  operations.  These  measures  (“the  U.S.  business  transformation  measures”)  included:  expansion  of  our 
U.S.  refranchising,  potentially  reducing  our  Company  ownership  in  the  U.S.  to  below  10%  by  year  end  2010;  charges 
relating  to  G&A  productivity  initiatives  and  realignment  of  resources  (primarily  severance  and  early  retirement  costs);  and 
investments  in  our  U.S.  Brands  made  on  behalf  of  our  franchisees  such  as  equipment  purchases.  As  discussed  in  Note  5, 
we  are  not  including  the  impacts  of  these  U.S.  business  transformation  measures  in  our  U.S.  segment  for  performance 
reporting  purposes. 

In  the  year  ended  December  27,  2008,  we  recorded  a  pre-tax  loss  of  $5  million  from  refranchising  in  the  U.S.,  pre-tax 
expense  related  to  U.S.  G&A  productivity  initiatives  and  realignment  of  resources  of  $49  million,  and  pre-tax  expense 
related  to  investments  in  our  U.S.  brands  of  $7  million.  The  refranchising  losses  are  more  fully  discussed  in  Note  5  and 
the  Store  Portfolio  Strategy  of  the  MD&A. 

These  losses  were  more  than  offset  in  the  year  ended  December  27,  2008  by  a  pre-tax  gain  of  approximately  $100  million 
related  to  the  sale  of  our  interest  in  our  unconsolidated  affiliate  in  Japan  (See  Note  5  for  further  discussion  of  this 
transaction).  This  gain  was  recorded  in  Other  (income)  expense  in  our  Consolidated  Statement  of  Income  and  was  not 
allocated  to  any  segment  for  performance  reporting  purposes. 


27 


In  2009,  we  currently  expect  to  refranchise  500  restaurants  in  the  U.S.  The  impact  of  this  refranchising  on  our  2009 
results  will  be  determined  by  the  stores  that  we  are  able  to  sell  and  the  specific  prices  we  are  able  to  obtain  for  those 
stores.  In  the  first  quarter  of  2009,  the  expenses  related  to  the  U.S.  G&A  productivity  initiatives  and  realignment  of 
resources  are  expected  to  total  approximately  $5  million  and  investments  in  our  U.S.  Brands  are  expected  to  total 
approximately  $25  million. 

We  currently  anticipate  ongoing  G&A  savings  of  approximately  $70  million,  primarily  within  the  U.S.  segment,  as  a 
result  of  the  U.S.  business  transformation  measures  we  took  in  2008  and  will  take  in  2009. 

Mexico  Value  Added  Tax  (“VAT”)  Exemption 

On  October  1,  2007,  Mexico  enacted  new  legislation  that  eliminated  a  tax  ruling  that  allowed  us  to  claim  an  exemption 
related  to  VAT  payments.  Beginning  on  January  1,  2008,  we  were  required  to  remit  VAT  on  all  Company  restaurant  sales 
resulting  in  lower  Company  sales  and  Restaurant  profit.  As  a  result  of  this  new  legislation,  our  International  Division’s 
Company  sales  and  Restaurant  profit  for  the  year  ended  December  27,  2008  were  unfavorably  impacted  by  approximately 
$38  million  and  $34  million,  respectively.  The  International  Division’s  system  sales  growth  and  restaurant  margin  as  a 
percentage  of  sales  were  negatively  impacted  by  approximately  0.3  and  1.2  percentage  points,  respectively,  for  the  year 
ended  December  27,  2008.  For  the  first  quarter  of  2009,  the  negative  lapping  impact  is  expected  to  be  $4  million  after 
which  there  will  be  no  impact  on  subsequent  quarters  in  2009. 

Tax  Legislation  -  Mainland  China 

On  March  16,  2007,  the  National  People’s  Congress  in  mainland  China  enacted  new  tax  legislation  that  went  into  effect 
on  January  1,  2008.  Upon  enactment,  which  occurred  in  the  China  Division’s  2007  second  fiscal  quarter,  the  deferred  tax 
balances  of  all  Chinese  entities,  including  our  unconsolidated  affiliates,  were  adjusted.  These  income  tax  rate  changes 
positively  impacted  our  2008  net  income  by  approximately  $20  million  compared  to  what  it  would  have  otherwise  been 
had  no  new  tax  legislation  been  enacted.  The  impacts  on  our  income  tax  provision  and  operating  profit  in  the  year  ended 
December  29, 2007  were  not  significant. 

Pizza  Hut  United  Kingdom  Acquisition 

On  September  12,  2006,  we  completed  the  acquisition  of  the  remaining  fifty  percent  ownership  interest  of  our  Pizza  Hut 
United  Kingdom  (“U.K.”)  unconsolidated  affiliate  from  our  partner,  paying  approximately  $178  million  in  cash,  including 
transaction  costs  and  net  of  $9  million  of  cash  assumed.  Additionally,  we  assumed  the  full  liability,  as  opposed  to  our 
fifty  percent  share,  associated  with  the  Pizza  Hut  U.K.’s  capital  leases  of  $97  million  and  short-term  borrowings  of  $23 
million.  This  unconsolidated  affiliate  operated  more  than  500  restaurants  in  the  U.K.  at  the  date  of  acquisition. 

Prior  to  the  acquisition,  we  accounted  for  our  fifty  percent  ownership  interest  using  the  equity  method  of  accounting. 
Thus,  we  reported  our  fifty  percent  share  of  the  net  income  of  the  unconsolidated  affiliate  (after  interest  expense  and 
income  taxes)  as  Other  (income)  expense  in  the  Consolidated  Statements  of  Income.  We  also  recorded  a  franchise  fee  for 
the  royalty  received  from  the  stores  owned  by  the  unconsolidated  affiliate.  Since  the  date  of  the  acquisition,  we  have 
reported  Company  sales  and  the  associated  restaurant  costs,  G&A  expense,  interest  expense  and  income  taxes  associated 
with  the  restaurants  previously  owned  by  the  unconsolidated  affiliate  in  the  appropriate  fine  items  of  our  Consolidated 
Statement  of  Income.  We  no  longer  record  franchise  fee  income  for  the  restaurants  previously  owned  by  the 
unconsolidated  affiliate,  nor  do  we  report  other  income  under  the  equity  method  of  accounting.  As  a  result  of  this 
acquisition,  Company  sales  and  restaurant  profit  increased  $576  million  and  $59  million,  respectively,  franchise  fees 
decreased  $19  million  and  G&A  expenses  increased  $33  million  in  the  year  ended  December  29,  2007  compared  to  the 
year  ended  December  30,  2006. 


28 


Store  Portfolio  Strategy 


From  time  to  time  we  sell  Company  restaurants  to  existing  and  new  franchisees  where  geographic  synergies  can  be 
obtained  or  where  franchisees’  expertise  can  generally  be  leveraged  to  improve  our  overall  operating  performance,  while 
retaining  Company  ownership  of  strategic  U.S.  and  international  markets.  In  the  U.S.,  we  are  targeting  Company 
ownership  of  restaurants  potentially  below  10%  by  year  end  2010,  down  from  its  current  level  of  19%.  Consistent  with 
this  strategy,  700  Company  restaurants  in  the  U.S.  were  sold  to  franchisees  in  2008.  We  recorded  net  refranchising  losses 
of  $5  million  in  the  U.S.  for  the  year  ended  December  27,  2008,  primarily  due  to  our  refranchising  of,  or  our  offers  to  sell, 
certain  stores  or  groups  of  stores  for  a  price  less  than  their  carrying  values.  We  currently  anticipate  refranchising  500 
units  in  the  U.S.  in  2009. 

We  expect  U.S.  refranchising  will  generate  the  following  financial  impacts  over  the  three-year  period  (2008-2010):  pre¬ 
tax  sales  proceeds  of  about  $1  billion,  U.S.  restaurant  margin  improvement  of  about  2.5  percentage  points,  neutral  to 
slightly  dilutive  to  U.S.  operating  profit  and  net  refranchising  gains  of  about  $150  million. 

While  it  remains  our  intent  to  significantly  reduce  our  ownership  levels  of  Pizza  Huts  in  the  U.K.  through  refranchising, 
minimal  activity  took  place  in  2008.  The  timing  of  future  refranchising  is  currently  difficult  to  predict  given  refranchising 
results  to  date  and  the  current  economic  environment. 


Refranchisings  reduce  our  reported  revenues  and  restaurant  profits  and  increase  the  importance  of  system  sales  growth  as 
a  key  performance  measure.  Additionally,  G&A  expenses  will  decline  over  time  as  a  result  of  these  refranchising 
activities.  The  timing  of  such  declines  will  vary  and  often  lag  the  actual  refranchising  activities  as  the  synergies  are 
typically  dependent  upon  the  size  and  geography  of  the  respective  deals.  G&A  expenses  included  in  the  tables  below 
reflect  only  direct  G&A  that  we  no  longer  incurred  as  a  result  of  stores  that  were  operated  by  us  for  all  or  some  of  the 
respective  previous  year  and  were  no  longer  operated  by  us  as  of  the  last  day  of  the  respective  current  year. 


The  following  table  summarizes  our  worldwide  refranchising  activities: 

2008 


Number  of  units  refranchised 
Refranchising  proceeds,  pretax 
Refranchising  net  gains,  pretax 


2007 

775  420 

$  266  $  117 

$  5  $  11 


2006 
622 
$  257 

$  24 


The  impact  on  operating  profit  arising  from  refranchising  is  the  net  of  (a)  the  estimated  reductions  in  restaurant  profit, 
which  reflects  the  decrease  in  Company  sales,  and  G&A  expenses  and  (b)  the  increase  in  franchise  fees  from  the 
restaurants  that  have  been  refranchised.  The  tables  presented  below  reflect  the  impacts  on  Total  revenues  and  on 
Operating  Profit  from  stores  that  were  operated  by  us  for  all  or  some  portion  of  the  respective  previous  year  and  were  no 
longer  operated  by  us  as  of  the  last  day  of  the  respective  current  year.  In  these  tables,  Decreased  Company  sales  and 
Decreased  Restaurant  profit  represents  the  amount  of  sales  or  restaurant  profit  earned  by  the  refranchised  restaurants 
during  the  period  we  owned  them  in  the  prior  year  but  did  not  own  them  in  the  current  year.  Increased  Franchise  and 
license  fees  represents  the  franchise  and  license  fees  from  the  refranchised  restaurants  that  were  recorded  by  the  Company 
in  the  current  year  during  periods  in  which  the  restaurants  were  Company  stores  in  the  prior  year. 


The  following  table  summarizes  the  impact  of  refranchising  as  described  above: 

2008 


U.S. 

YRI 

China  Division 

Worldwide 

Decreased  Company  sales 

Increased  Franchise  and  license  fees 

$  (300) 

16 

$  (106) 

6 

$ 

(5) 

$  (411) 

22 

Decrease  in  Total  revenues 

$  (284) 

$  (100) 

$ 

(5) 

$  (389) 

29 


2007 


U.S. 

YRI 

China  Division 

Worldwide 

Decreased  Company  sales 

Increased  Franchise  and  license  fees 

$ 

(374) 

20 

$ 

(144) 

9 

$  (3) 

$  (521) 

29 

Decrease  in  Total  revenues 

$ 

(354) 

$ 

(135) 

$  (3) 

$  (492) 

The  following  table  summarizes  the  estimated  impact  on  Operating  Profit  of  refranchising: 

2008 

U.S. 

YRI 

China  Division 

Worldwide 

Decreased  Restaurant  profit 

Increased  Franchise  and  license  fees 

Decreased  G&A 

$ 

(19) 

16 

7 

$ 

(8) 

6 

1 

$  (1) 

$  (28) 

22 

8 

Increase  (decrease)  in  Operating  Profit 

$ 

4 

$ 

(1) 

$  (1) 

$  2 

2007 

U.S. 

YRI 

China  Division 

Worldwide 

Decreased  Restaurant  profit 

Increased  Franchise  and  license  fees 

Decreased  G&A 

$ 

(37) 

20 

7 

$ 

(7) 

9 

3 

$  — 

$  (44) 

29 

10 

Increase  (decrease)  in  Operating  Profit 

$ 

(10) 

$ 

5 

$  — 

$  (5) 

Results  of  Operations 


%  B/(W) 

%  B/(W) 

2008 

vs.  2007 

2007 

vs.  2006 

Company  sales 

$  9,843 

8 

$ 

9,100 

9 

Franchise  and  license  fees 

1,436 

9 

1,316 

10 

Total  revenues 

$  11,279 

8 

$ 

10,416 

9 

Company  restaurant  profit 

$  1,378 

4 

$ 

1,327 

4 

%  of  Company  sales 

14.0% 

(0.6)  ppts. 

14.6% 

(0.6)  ppts. 

Operating  profit 

1,506 

11 

1,357 

8 

Interest  expense,  net 

226 

(36) 

166 

(8) 

Income  tax  provision 

316 

(12) 

282 

1 

Net  income 

$  964 

6 

$ 

909 

10 

Diluted  earnings  per  share(a) 

$  1.96 

17 

$ 

1.68 

15 

(a)  See  Note  4  for  the  number  of  shares  used  in  this  calculation. 


30 


Restaurant  Unit  Activity 


Unconsolidated 

Total  Excluding 

Worldwide 

Company 

Affiliates 

Franchisees 

Licensees'^1 

Balance  at  end  of  2006 

7,736 

1,206 

23,516 

32,458 

New  Builds 

505 

132 

1,070 

1,707 

Acquisitions 

9 

6 

(14) 

1 

Refranchising 

(420) 

(6) 

426 

— 

Closures 

(204) 

(24) 

(706) 

(934) 

Other 

(1) 

— 

5 

4 

Balance  at  end  of  2007 

7,625 

1,314 

24,297 

33,236 

New  Builds 

596 

89 

1,173 

1,858 

Acquisitions 

106 

— 

(105) 

1 

Refranchising 

(775) 

(1) 

776 

— 

Closures 

(166) 

(8) 

(800) 

(974) 

Other(b)(c) 

182 

(749) 

570 

3 

Balance  at  end  of  2008 

7,568 

645 

25,911 

34,124 

%  of  Total 

22% 

2% 

76% 

100% 

Unconsolidated 

Total  Excluding 

United  States 

Company 

Affiliates 

Franchisees 

Licensees(a) 

Balance  at  end  of  2006 

4,212 

— 

13,905 

18,117 

New  Builds 

87 

— 

262 

349 

Acquisitions 

8 

— 

(7) 

1 

Refranchising 

(304) 

— 

304 

— 

Closures 

(106) 

— 

(386) 

(492) 

Other 

(1) 

— 

3 

2 

Balance  at  end  of  2007 

3,896 

— 

14,081 

17,977 

New  Builds 

94 

— 

269 

363 

Acquisitions 

95 

— 

(94) 

1 

Refranchising 

(700) 

— 

700 

— 

Closures 

(71) 

— 

(477) 

(548) 

Other 

— 

— 

3 

3 

Balance  at  end  of  2008 

3,314 

— 

14,482 

17,796 

%  of  Total 

19% 

— 

81% 

100% 

31 


Unconsolidated 

Affiliates 


Total  Excluding 
Licensees(a) 


YRI  Company 

Balance  at  end  of  2006  1,762 

New  Builds  54 

Acquisitions  1 

Refranchising  (109) 

Closures  (66) 

Other  — 

Balance  at  end  of  2007  1,642 

New  Builds  55 

Acquisitions  4 

Refranchising  (71) 

Closures  (41) 

Other(b)  — 

Balance  at  end  of  2008  1,589 

%  of  Total  12% 

China  Division  Company 

Balance  at  end  of  2006  1,762 

New  Builds  364 

Acquisitions 

Refranchising  (7) 

Closures  (32) 

Other  — 

Balance  at  end  of  2007  2,087 

New  Builds  447 

Acquisitions  7 

Refranchising  (4) 

Closures  (54) 

Other(c)  182 

Balance  at  end  of  2008  2,665 

%  of  Total  74% 


Franchisees 


561 

9,387 

11,710 

18 

780 

852 

6 

(7) 

— 

(6) 

115 

— 

(11) 

(314) 

(391) 

— 

2 

2 

568 

9,963 

12,173 

— 

869 

924 

— 

(4) 

— 

(1) 

72 

— 

— 

(310) 

(351) 

(567) 

567 

— 

11,157 

12,746 

- 

88% 

100% 

Unconsolidated 

Total  Excluding 

Affiliates 

Franchisees 

Licensees(a) 

645 

224 

2,631 

114 

28 

506 

(13) 

7 

(6) 

(51) 

746 

253 

3,086 

89 

35 

571 

— 

(7) 

— 

(8) 

(13) 

(75) 

(182) 

— 

— 

645 

272 

3,582 

18% 

8% 

100% 

(a)  The  Worldwide,  U.S.  and  YRI  totals  exclude  2,168,  1,994  and  174  licensed  units,  respectively,  at  December  27, 
2008.  There  are  no  licensed  units  in  the  China  Division.  Licensed  units  are  generally  units  that  offer  limited 
menus  and  operate  in  non-traditional  locations  like  malls,  airports,  gasoline  service  stations,  convenience  stores, 
stadiums  and  amusement  parks  where  a  full  scale  traditional  outlet  would  not  be  practical  or  efficient.  As 
licensed  units  have  lower  average  unit  sales  volumes  than  our  traditional  units  and  our  current  strategy  does  not 
place  a  significant  emphasis  on  expanding  our  licensed  units,  we  do  not  believe  that  providing  further  detail  of 
licensed  unit  activity  provides  significant  or  meaningful  information. 


32 


(b)  In  our  fiscal  quarter  ended  March  22,  2008,  we  sold  our  interest  in  our  unconsolidated  affiliate  in  Japan.  While 
we  will  no  longer  have  an  ownership  interest  in  the  entity  that  operates  both  KFCs  and  Pizza  Huts  in  Japan,  it 
will  continue  to  be  a  franchisee  as  it  was  when  it  operated  as  an  unconsolidated  affiliate.  See  Note  5. 

(c)  On  January  1,  2008,  we  began  consolidating  an  entity  in  China  in  which  we  have  a  majority  ownership  interest. 
This  entity  was  previously  accounted  for  as  an  unconsolidated  affiliate  and  we  reclassified  the  units  accordingly. 
See  Note  5. 

Multibrand  restaurants  are  included  in  the  totals  above.  Multibrand  conversions  increase  the  sales  and  points  of 
distribution  for  the  second  brand  added  to  a  restaurant  but  do  not  result  in  an  additional  unit  count.  Similarly,  a  new 
multibrand  restaurant,  while  increasing  sales  and  points  of  distribution  for  two  brands,  results  in  just  one  additional  unit 
count.  Franchise  unit  counts  include  both  franchisee  and  unconsolidated  affiliate  multibrand  units.  Multibrand  restaurant 
totals  were  as  follows: 


2008 

U.S. 

YRI 


Worldwide 


Company 

1,601 


1,601 


Franchise 

3,028 

329 

3,357 


Total 

4,629 

329 

4,958 


2007 

U.S. 

YRI 

Worldwide 


Company 

1,750 

6 

1,756 


Franchise 

1,949 

284 

2,233 


Total 

3,699 

290 

3,989 


For  2008  and  2007,  Company  multibrand  unit  gross  additions  were  251  and  86,  respectively.  For  2008  and  2007, 
franchise  multibrand  unit  gross  additions  were  830  and  283,  respectively.  There  are  no  multibrand  units  in  the  China 
Division. 


33 


System  Sales  Growth 

System  sales  growth  includes  the  results  of  all  restaurants  regardless  of  ownership,  including  Company-owned,  franchise, 
unconsolidated  affiliate  and  license  restaurants.  The  following  tables  detail  the  key  drivers  of  system  sales  growth  for 
each  reportable  segment  by  year.  Same  store  sales  growth  is  the  estimated  growth  in  sales  of  all  restaurants  that  have 
been  open  one  year  or  more.  Net  unit  growth  and  other  represents  the  net  impact  of  actual  system  sales  growth  due  to 
new  unit  openings  and  historical  system  sales  lost  due  to  closures  as  well  as  any  necessary  rounding. 

_ 2008  vs.  2007 _ 

China 

U.S.  YRI  Division  Worldwide 

2%  4%  6%  3% 

1  4  14  4 

N/A  _ 2  _ 11  _ 1 

3%  10%  31%  8% 

N/A  _ 8%  _  20%  _ 7% 


_ 2007  vs.  2006 _ 

China 

U.S.  YRI  Division  Worldwide 

— %  6%  10%  3% 

4  14  3 

N/A  _ 5  7 _  _ 2 

— %  15%  31%  _ 8% 

N/A  _ 10%  24%  6%_ 


Same  store  sales  growth  (decline) 

Net  unit  growth  and  other 
Foreign  currency  translation  (“forex”) 
%  Change 

%  Change,  excluding  forex 


Same  store  sales  growth  (decline) 

Net  unit  growth  and  other 
Foreign  currency  translation  (“forex”) 
%  Change 

%  Change,  excluding  forex 


34 


i/. global-reports. c 


Revenues 


Company  sales  were  as  follows: 


2008 

2007 

2006 

u.s. 

$  4,410 

$  4,518 

$ 

4,952 

YRI 

2,375 

2,507 

1,826 

China  Division 

3.058 

2.075 

1.587 

Worldwide 

$  9.843 

$  9.100 

$ 

8.365 

The  following  tables  detail  the  key  drivers  of  the  year-over-year  changes  of  Company  sales  and  Franchise  and  license 
fees.  Same  store  sales  growth  is  the  estimated  growth  in  sales  of  all  restaurants  that  have  been  open  one  year  or  more. 
Net  unit  growth  represents  the  net  impact  of  actual  sales  or  fee  additions  due  to  new  unit  openings  and  historical  sales  or 
fee  reductions  due  to  closures.  Refranchising  represents  the  amount  of  Company  sales  for  the  periods  in  the  prior  year 
while  the  Company  operated  the  restaurants  but  did  not  operate  them  in  the  current  year  or  the  impact  on  Franchise  and 
license  fees  for  amounts  from  refranchised  restaurants  that  were  recorded  by  the  Company  in  the  current  year  during 
periods  in  which  the  restaurants  were  Company  stores  in  the  prior  year.  Other  represents  the  impact  of  acquisitions, 
unusual  or  significant  items  and  roundings,  which  are  footnoted  as  necessary. 

The  percentage  changes  in  company  sales  by  year  were  as  follows: 


2008  vs.  2007 

China 


U.S. 

YRI 

Division 

Worldwide 

Same  store  sales  growth  (decline) 

3% 

— % 

7% 

3% 

Net  unit  growth 

1 

1 

16 

4 

Refranchising 

(7) 

(4) 

_ 

(5) 

Other(a) 

1 

13 

4 

Foreign  currency  translation  (“forex”) 

N/A 

(2) 

11 

2 

%  Change 

f2V>/n 

(5)% 

47% 

8% 

%  Change,  excluding  forex 

N/A 

f3)% 

36% 

6% 

2007  vs.  2006 


U.S. 

YRI 

China 

Division 

Worldwide 

Same  store  sales  growth  (decline) 

(3)% 

5% 

10% 

2% 

Net  unit  growth 

1 

2 

15 

4 

Refranchising 

(8) 

(8) 

_ 

(6) 

Other(b> 

1 

32 

(1) 

6 

Foreign  currency  translation  (“forex”) 

N/A 

6 

7 

3 

%  Change 

(9)% 

37% 

31% 

9% 

%  Change,  excluding  forex 

N/A 

31% 

24% 

6% 

(a)  China  and  Worldwide  include  13  percentage  points  and  3  percentage  points,  respectively,  attributable  to  the 
consolidation  of  a  former  China  unconsolidated  affiliate  at  the  beginning  of  2008.  See  Note  5. 

(b)  YRI  and  Worldwide  include  32  percentage  points  and  7  percentage  points,  respectively,  attributable  to  the  acquisition 
of  the  remaining  fifty  percent  ownership  interest  of  our  Pizza  Hut  U.K.  unconsolidated  affiliate  on  September  12, 
2006.  See  Note  5. 


35 


Franchise  and  license  fees  were  as  follows: 


2008 

2007 

2006 

u.s. 

$  715 

$  679 

$  651 

YRI 

651 

568 

494 

China  Division 

70 

69 

51 

Worldwide 

$  M3  6 

$  1-316 

$  1-196 

The  percentage  changes  in  franchise  and  license  fees  by  year  were  as  follows: 

2008  vs. 

2007 

China 

U.S. 

YRI 

Division 

Worldwide 

Same  store  sales  growth  (decline) 

2% 

6% 

4% 

4% 

Net  unit  growth 

1 

5 

6 

3 

Refranchising 

2 

1 

_ 

2 

Other(a) 

_ 

1 

(16) 

(1) 

Foreign  currency  translation  (“forex”) 

N/A 

2 

8 

1 

%  Change 

5% 

15% 

2% 

9% 

%  Change,  excluding  forex 

N/A 

13% 

(6)% 

8% 

2007  vs.  2006 

U.S. 

China 

YRI  Division 

Worldwide 

Same  store  sales  growth  (decline) 

— % 

6% 

10% 

3% 

Net  unit  growth 

1 

6 

15 

3 

Refranchising 

3 

2 

_ 

2 

Other® 

_ 

(4) 

4 

_ 

Foreign  currency  translation  (“forex”) 

N/A 

5 

6 

2 

%  Change 

4% 

15% 

35% 

10% 

%  Change,  excluding  forex 

N/A 

10% 

29% 

8% 

(a)  China  and  Worldwide  include  negative  19  percentage  points  and  negative  1  percentage  point,  respectively, 
attributable  to  the  consolidation  of  a  former  China  unconsolidated  affiliate  at  the  beginning  of  2008.  See  Note  5. 

(b)  YRI  and  Worldwide  include  negative  4  percentage  points  and  negative  2  percentage  points,  respectively,  attributable 
to  the  acquisition  of  the  remaining  fifty  percent  ownership  interest  of  our  Pizza  Hut  U.K.  unconsolidated  affiliate  on 
September  12, 2006.  See  Note  5. 


36 


Company  Restaurant  Margins 


2008 


U.S. 

YRI 

China 

Division 

Worldwide 

Company  sales 

100.0% 

100.0% 

100.0% 

100.0% 

Food  and  paper 

30.3 

31.6 

37.7 

32.9 

Payroll  and  employee  benefits 

30.1 

26.0 

13.8 

24.1 

Occupancy  and  other  operating  expenses 

27.1 

31.3 

30.1 

29.0 

Company  restaurant  margin 

12.5% 

11.1% 

18.4% 

14.0% 

2007 

China 

U.S. 

YRI 

Division 

Worldwide 

Company  sales 

100.0% 

100.0% 

100.0% 

100.0% 

Food  and  paper 

29.2 

29.9 

36.4 

31.0 

Payroll  and  employee  benefits 

30.5 

26.1 

13.2 

25.3 

Occupancy  and  other  operating  expenses 

27.0 

31.7 

30.3 

29.1 

Company  restaurant  margin 

13.3% 

12.3% 

20.1% 

14.6% 

2006 

China 

U.S. 

YRI 

Division 

Worldwide 

Company  sales 

100.0% 

100.0% 

100.0% 

100.0% 

Food  and  paper 

28.2 

32.2 

35.4 

30.5 

Payroll  and  employee  benefits 

30.1 

24.6 

12.9 

25.6 

Occupancy  and  other  operating  expenses 

27.1 

31.0 

31.3 

28.7 

Company  restaurant  margin 

14.6% 

12.2% 

20.4% 

15.2% 

In  2008,  the  decrease  in  U.S.  restaurant  margin  as  a  percentage  of  sales  was  driven  by  the  impact  of  higher  commodity 
costs  (primarily  cheese,  meat,  chicken  and  wheat  costs),  higher  labor  costs  (primarily  wage  rate  and  salary  increases)  and 
higher  property  and  casualty  insurance  expense  as  we  lapped  favorability  recognized  in  2007.  The  decrease  was  partially 
offset  by  the  favorable  impact  of  same  store  sales  growth  on  restaurant  margin  including  the  impact  of  higher  average 
guest  check. 

In  2007,  the  decrease  in  U.S.  restaurant  margin  as  a  percentage  of  sales  was  driven  by  the  impact  of  higher  commodity 
costs  (primarily  cheese  and  meats)  and  higher  wage  rates,  due  primarily  to  state  minimum  wage  rate  increases.  The 
decrease  was  partially  offset  by  the  favorable  impact  of  lower  self-insured  property  and  casualty  insurance  expense  driven 
by  improved  loss  trends,  as  well  as  the  favorable  impact  on  restaurant  margin  of  refranchising  and  closing  certain 
restaurants. 

In  2008,  the  decrease  in  YRI  restaurant  margin  as  a  percentage  of  sales  was  driven  by  the  elimination  of  a  VAT 
exemption  in  Mexico.  An  increase  in  commodity  costs  was  partially  offset  by  higher  average  guest  check. 

In  2007,  the  increase  in  YRI  restaurant  margin  as  a  percentage  of  sales  was  driven  by  the  impact  of  same  store  sales 
growth  on  restaurant  margin  as  well  as  the  favorable  impact  of  refranchising  certain  restaurants.  The  increase  was  almost 
fully  offset  by  higher  labor  costs  (primarily  wage  rates)  and  the  impact  of  lower  margins  associated  with  Pizza  Hut  units 
in  the  U.K.  which  we  now  operate.  As  a  percentage  of  sales,  Pizza  Hut  U.K.  restaurants  negatively  impacted  payroll  and 
employee  benefits  and  occupancy  and  other  expenses  and  positively  impacted  food  and  paper. 


37 


In  2008,  the  decrease  in  China  Division  restaurant  margin  as  a  percentage  of  sales  was  driven  by  higher  commodity  costs 
(primarily  chicken  products),  the  impact  of  lower  margins  associated  with  new  units  during  the  initial  periods  of 
operation,  and  higher  labor  costs.  The  decrease  was  partially  offset  by  the  impact  of  same  store  sales  growth  on  restaurant 
margin. 

In  2007,  the  decrease  in  China  Division  restaurant  margin  as  a  percentage  of  sales  was  driven  by  higher  commodity  costs 
(primarily  chicken  products),  the  impact  of  lower  margins  associated  with  new  units  during  the  initial  periods  of  operation 
and  higher  labor  costs.  The  decrease  was  partially  offset  by  the  impact  of  same  store  sales  growth  on  restaurant  margin. 

Worldwide  General  and  Administrative  Expenses 

G&A  expenses  increased  4%  in  2008,  including  a  1%  unfavorable  impact  of  foreign  currency  translation.  This  increase 
was  driven  by  approximately  $49  million  of  G&A  productivity  initiatives  and  realignment  of  resources  related  to  the  U.S. 
transformation  as  discussed  in  the  Significant  Gains  &  Charges  section  of  this  MD&A. 

G&A  expenses  increased  9%  in  2007,  including  a  2%  unfavorable  impact  of  foreign  currency  translation.  Excluding  the 
additional  G&A  expenses  associated  with  acquiring  the  Pizza  Hut  U.K.  business  (which  were  previously  netted  within 
equity  income  prior  to  our  acquisition  of  the  remaining  fifty  percent  of  the  business)  and  the  unfavorable  impact  of  foreign 
currency  translation,  G&A  expense  increased  4%.  The  increase  was  driven  by  higher  annual  incentive  and  other 
compensation  costs,  including  amounts  associated  with  strategic  initiatives  in  China  and  other  international  growth 
markets. 

Worldwide  Franchise  and  License  Expenses 

Franchise  and  license  expenses  increased  86%  in  2008.  The  increase  was  driven  by  higher  marketing  funding  on  behalf 
of  franchisees,  investments  in  our  U.S.  brands  as  discussed  in  the  Significant  Gains  &  Charges  section  of  this  MD&A  and 
increased  provision  for  uncollectible  receivables. 

Franchise  and  license  expenses  increased  14%  in  2007.  The  increase  was  driven  by  higher  marketing  funding  on  behalf 
of  franchisees,  franchise  convention  costs  and  increased  provision  for  uncollectible  receivables. 

Worldwide  Other  (Income)  Expense 


2008  2007  2006 

Equity  income  from  investments  in  unconsolidated  affiliates  $  (41)  $  (51)  $  (51) 


Minority  Interest(a) 

Gain  upon  sale  of  investment  in  unconsolidated  affiliate®1® 
Contract  termination  charge<d) 

Wrench  litigation  income® 

Foreign  exchange  net  (gain)  loss  and  other 
Other  (income)  expense 


11 

— 

— 

(100) 

(6) 

(2) 

— 

(11) 

— 

(16) 

£3) 

CZL 

$  (146)  $  (71)  $  (52) 


(a)  On  January  1,  2008  the  Company  began  consolidating  an  entity  in  China  in  which  we  have  a  majority  ownership 
interest.  See  Note  5. 

(b)  Fiscal  year  2008  reflects  the  gain  recognized  on  the  sale  of  our  interest  in  our  unconsolidated  affiliate  in  Japan. 
See  Note  5. 

(c)  Fiscal  years  2007  and  2006  reflect  recognition  of  income  associated  with  receipt  of  payments  for  a  note 
receivable  arising  from  the  2005  sale  of  our  fifty  percent  interest  in  the  entity  that  operated  almost  all  KFCs  and 
Pizza  Huts  in  Poland  and  the  Czech  Republic  to  our  then  partner  in  the  entity. 

(d)  Reflects  an  $8  million  charge  associated  with  the  termination  of  a  beverage  agreement  in  the  U.S.  segment  in 
2006. 

(e)  Fiscal  year  2007  reflects  financial  recoveries  from  settlements  with  insurance  carriers  related  to  a  lawsuit  settled 
by  Taco  Bell  Corporation  in  2004. 

Worldwide  Closure  and  Impairment  Expenses  and  Refranchising  (Gain)  Loss 

See  the  Store  Portfolio  Strategy  section  for  more  detail  of  our  refranchising  activity  and  Note  5  for  a  summary  of  the 

components  of  facility  actions  by  reportable  operating  segment. 

Operating  Profit 


2008 

2007 

%  B/(W) 

2008 

2007 

United  States 

$  694 

$  739 

(6) 

(3) 

YRI 

528 

480 

10 

18 

China  Division 

469 

375 

25 

30 

Unallocated  and  corporate  expenses 

(307) 

(257) 

(19) 

(12) 

Unallocated  Other  income  (expense) 

117 

9 

NM 

NM 

Unallocated  Refranchising  gain  (loss) 

5 

11 

NM 

NM 

Operating  Profit 

$  1,506 

$  1,357 

11 

8 

United  States  operating  margin 

13.5% 

14.2% 

(0.7)  ppts. 

0.6  ppts. 

YRI  operating  margin 

17.4% 

15.6% 

1.8  ppts. 

(2.0)  ppts. 

U.S.  Operating  Profit  decreased  6%  in  2008.  The  decrease  was  driven  by  higher  restaurant  operating  costs  and  higher 
closure  and  impairment  expenses,  partially  offset  by  the  impact  of  same  store  sales  growth  on  restaurant  profit  (primarily 
due  to  higher  average  guest  check)  and  Franchise  and  license  fees.  The  increase  in  restaurant  operating  costs  was 
primarily  driven  by  higher  commodity  costs. 

U.S.  Operating  Profit  decreased  3%  in  2007.  The  decrease  was  driven  by  higher  restaurant  operating  costs,  principally 
commodities  and  labor,  partially  offset  by  lower  G&A  expenses,  lower  closure  and  impairment  expenses  and  an  increase 
in  Other  income. 

YRI  Operating  Profit  increased  10%  in  2008,  including  a  2%  favorable  impact  from  foreign  currency  translation.  The 
increase  was  driven  by  the  impact  of  same  store  sales  growth  and  net  unit  development  on  Franchise  and  license  fees. 
These  increases  were  partially  offset  by  the  loss  of  the  VAT  exemption  in  Mexico. 


39 


YRI  Operating  Profit  increased  18%  in  2007  including  a  6%  favorable  impact  from  foreign  currency  translation.  The 
increase  was  driven  by  the  impact  of  same  store  sales  growth  and  new  unit  development  on  restaurant  profit  and  franchise 
and  license  fees.  The  increase  was  partially  offset  by  higher  G&A  expenses  (including  expenses  which  were  previously 
netted  within  equity  income  prior  to  our  acquisition  of  the  remaining  fifty  percent  of  the  Pizza  Hut  U.K.  business)  and 
higher  restaurant  operating  costs. 

China  Division  Operating  Profit  increased  25%  and  30%  in  2008  and  2007,  respectively,  including  an  11%  and  7% 
favorable  impact  from  foreign  currency  translation,  respectively.  The  increases  were  driven  by  the  impact  of  same  store 
sales  growth  and  net  unit  development  on  restaurant  profit.  The  increases  were  partially  offset  by  higher  restaurant 
operating  costs  and  higher  G&A  expenses. 

Unallocated  and  corporate  expenses  increased  19%  in  2008  due  to  U.S.  G&A  productivity  initiatives  and  realignment  of 
resources  and  investments  in  the  U.S.  Brands,  as  discussed  in  the  Significant  Gains  and  Charges  section  of  this  MD&A, 
partially  offset  by  lower  annual  incentive  compensation  expenses.  The  12%  increase  in  unallocated  and  corporate 
expenses  in  2007  was  driven  by  an  increase  in  annual  incentive  compensation  and  project  costs. 

Unallocated  Other  income  (expense)  in  2008  includes  a  $100  million  gain  recognized  on  the  sale  of  our  interest  in  our 
unconsolidated  affiliate  in  Japan.  See  Note  5. 

Interest  Expense,  Net 


2008 

2007 

2006 

Interest  expense 

$  253 

$  199 

$  172 

Interest  income 

(27) 

(33) 

(18) 

Interest  expense,  net 

$  226 

$  166 

$  154 

Net  interest  expense  increased  $60  million  or  36%  in  2008.  The  increase  was  driven  by  an  increase  in  borrowings  in  2008 
compared  to  2007,  partially  offset  by  a  decrease  in  interest  rates  in  the  variable  portion  of  our  debt  as  compared  to  prior 
year. 

Net  interest  expense  increased  $12  million  or  8%  in  2007.  The  increase  was  driven  by  an  increase  in  borrowings  in  2007 
compared  to  2006,  partially  offset  by  an  increase  in  interest  bearing  cash  equivalents  in  2007  compared  to  2006. 

Income  Taxes 


Reported 

Income  taxes 
Effective  tax  rate 


2008  2007  2006 


$  316  $  282  $  284 

24.7%  23.7%  25.6% 


40 


The  reconciliation  of  income  taxes  calculated  at  the  U.S.  federal  tax  statutory  rate  to  our  effective  tax  rate  is  set  forth 
below: 


2008 

2007 

2006 

U.S.  federal  statutory  rate 

35.0% 

35.0% 

35.0% 

State  income  tax,  net  of  federal  tax  benefit 

0.6 

1.0 

2.0 

Foreign  and  U.S.  tax  effects  attributable  to  foreign  operations 

(14.5) 

(5.7) 

(7.8) 

Adjustments  to  reserves  and  prior  years 

3.5 

2.6 

(3.5) 

Repatriation  of  foreign  earnings 

— 

— 

(0.4) 

Non-recurring  foreign  tax  credit  adjustments 

— 

— 

(6.2) 

Valuation  allowance  additions  (reversals) 

0.6 

(9.0) 

6.8 

Other,  net 

(0.5) 

(0.2) 

(0.3) 

Effective  income  tax  rate 

24.7% 

23.7% 

25.6% 

Our  2008  effective  income  tax  rate  was  negatively  impacted  by  lapping  valuation  allowance  reversals  made  in  the  prior 
year  as  discussed  below.  This  negative  impact  was  partially  offset  by  the  reversal  of  foreign  valuation  allowances  in  the 
current  year  associated  with  certain  deferred  tax  assets  that  we  now  believe  are  more  likely  than  not  to  be  utilized  on 
future  tax  returns.  Additionally,  the  effective  tax  rate  was  negatively  impacted  by  the  year-over-year  change  in 
adjustments  to  reserves  and  prior  years  (including  certain  out-of-year  adjustments  that  increased  our  effective  tax  rate  by 
1.8  percentage  points  in  2008).  Benefits  associated  with  our  foreign  and  U.S.  tax  effects  attributable  to  foreign  operations 
positively  impacted  the  effective  tax  rate  as  a  result  of  lapping  2007  expenses  associated  with  the  distribution  of  an 
intercompany  dividend  and  adjustments  to  our  deferred  tax  balances  that  resulted  from  the  Mexico  tax  law  change,  as 
further  discussed  below,  as  well  as  a  higher  percentage  of  our  income  being  earned  outside  the  U.S.  These  benefits  were 
partially  offset  in  2008  by  the  gain  on  the  sale  of  our  interest  in  our  unconsolidated  affiliate  in  Japan  and  expense 
associated  with  our  plan  to  distribute  certain  foreign  earnings.  We  also  recognized  deferred  tax  assets  for  the  net 
operating  losses  generated  by  certain  tax  planning  strategies  implemented  in  2008  included  in  foreign  and  U.S.  tax  effects 
attributable  to  foreign  operations  (1.7  percentage  point  impact).  However,  we  provided  a  full  valuation  allowance  on 
these  assets  as  we  do  not  believe  it  is  more  likely  than  not  that  they  will  be  realized  in  the  future. 

Our  2007  effective  income  tax  rate  was  positively  impacted  by  valuation  allowance  reversals.  In  December  2007,  the 
Company  finalized  various  tax  planning  strategies  based  on  completing  a  review  of  our  international  operations, 
distributed  a  $275  million  intercompany  dividend  and  sold  our  interest  in  our  Japan  unconsolidated  affiliate.  As  a  result, 
in  the  fourth  quarter  of  2007,  we  reversed  approximately  $82  million  of  valuation  allowances  associated  with  foreign  tax 
credit  carryovers  that  are  more  likely  than  not  to  be  claimed  on  future  tax  returns.  In  2007,  benefits  associated  with  our 
foreign  and  U.S.  tax  effects  attributable  to  foreign  operations  were  negatively  impacted  by  $36  million  of  expense 
associated  with  the  $275  million  intercompany  dividend  and  approximately  $20  million  of  expense  for  adjustments  to  our 
deferred  tax  balances  as  a  result  of  the  Mexico  tax  law  change  enacted  during  the  fourth  quarter  of  2007.  These  negative 
impacts  were  partially  offset  by  a  higher  percentage  of  our  income  being  earned  outside  the  U.S.  Additionally,  the 
effective  tax  rate  was  negatively  impacted  by  the  year-over-year  change  in  adjustments  to  reserves  and  prior  years. 

Our  2006  effective  income  tax  rate  was  positively  impacted  by  the  reversal  of  tax  reserves  in  connection  with  our  regular 
U.S.  audit  cycle  as  well  as  certain  out-of-year  adjustments  to  reserves  and  accruals  that  lowered  our  effective  income  tax 
rate  by  2.2  percentage  points.  The  reversal  of  tax  reserves  was  partially  offset  by  valuation  allowance  additions  on  foreign 
tax  credits  for  which,  as  a  result  of  the  tax  reserve  reversals,  we  believed  were  not  likely  to  be  utilized  before  they  expired. 
We  also  recognized  deferred  tax  assets  for  the  foreign  tax  credit  impact  of  non-recurring  decisions  to  repatriate  certain 
foreign  earnings  in  2007.  However,  we  provided  full  valuation  allowances  on  such  assets  as  we  did  not  believe  it  was 
more  likely  than  not  that  they  would  be  realized  at  that  time. 


41 


Adjustments  to  reserves  and  prior  years  include  the  effects  of  the  reconciliation  of  income  tax  amounts  recorded  in  our 
Consolidated  Statements  of  Income  to  amounts  reflected  on  our  tax  returns,  including  any  adjustments  to  the  Consolidated 
Balance  Sheets.  Adjustments  to  reserves  and  prior  years  also  includes  changes  in  tax  reserves,  including  interest  thereon, 
established  for  potential  exposure  we  may  incur  if  a  taxing  authority  takes  a  position  on  a  matter  contrary  to  our  position. 
We  evaluate  these  reserves  on  a  quarterly  basis  to  insure  that  they  have  been  appropriately  adjusted  for  events,  including 
audit  settlements  that  we  believe  may  impact  our  exposure. 

Consolidated  Cash  Flows 

Net  cash  provided  by  operating  activities  was  $1,521  million  compared  to  $1,551  million  in  2007.  The  decrease  was 
primarily  driven  by  higher  interest  payments  and  pension  contributions. 

In  2007,  net  cash  provided  by  operating  activities  was  $1,551  million  compared  to  $1,257  million  in  2006.  The  increase 
was  driven  by  higher  net  income,  lower  pension  contributions  and  lower  income  tax  payments  in  2007. 

Net  cash  used  in  investing  activities  was  $641  million  versus  $416  million  in  2007.  The  increase  was  driven  by  higher 
capital  spending  in  2008  and  the  lapping  of  proceeds  from  the  sale  of  our  interest  in  the  Japan  unconsolidated  affiliate  in 
2007,  partially  offset  by  the  year  over  year  change  in  proceeds  from  refranchising  of  restaurants. 

In  December  2007,  we  sold  our  interest  in  our  unconsolidated  affiliate  in  Japan  for  $128  million  (includes  the  impact  of 
related  foreign  currency  contracts  that  were  settled  in  December  2007).  The  international  subsidiary  that  owned  this 
interest  operates  on  a  fiscal  calendar  with  a  period  end  that  is  approximately  one  month  earlier  than  our  consolidated 
period  close.  Thus,  consistent  with  our  historical  treatment  of  events  occurring  during  the  lag  period,  the  pre-tax  gain  on 
the  sale  of  this  investment  of  $100  million  was  recorded  in  the  first  quarter  of  2008.  However,  the  cash  proceeds  from 
this  transaction  were  transferred  from  our  international  subsidiary  to  the  U.S.  in  December  2007  and  were  thus  reported 
on  our  Consolidated  Statement  of  Cash  Flows  for  the  year  ended  December  29,  2007.  The  offset  to  this  cash  on  our 
Consolidated  Balance  Sheet  at  December  29,  2007  was  in  accounts  payable  and  other  current  liabilities. 

In  2007,  net  cash  used  in  investing  activities  was  $416  million  versus  $434  million  in  2006.  The  decrease  was  driven  by 
the  lapping  of  the  acquisition  of  the  remaining  interest  in  our  Pizza  Hut  U.K.  unconsolidated  affiliate  in  2006  and 
proceeds  from  the  sale  of  our  interest  in  the  Japan  unconsolidated  affiliate  in  December  2007,  partially  offset  by  the  year 
over  year  change  in  proceeds  from  refranchising  of  restaurants  and  a  2007  increase  in  capital  spending. 

Net  cash  used  in  financing  activities  was  $1,459  million  versus  $678  million  in  2007.  The  increase  was  driven  by  lower 
net  borrowings,  higher  share  repurchases  and  higher  dividend  payments  in  2008. 

In  2007,  net  cash  used  in  financing  activities  was  $678  million  versus  $670  million  in  2006.  The  increase  was  driven  by 
higher  share  repurchases  and  higher  dividend  payments,  partially  offset  by  an  increase  in  net  borrowings. 

Consolidated  Financial  Condition 

Upon  recognition  of  the  sale  of  our  interest  in  our  unconsolidated  affiliate  in  Japan,  as  described  above,  during  the  first 
quarter  2008  accounts  payable  and  other  current  liabilities  decreased  by  $128  million  due  to  the  reversal  of  the  associated 
deferred  gain. 

In  May  2008,  $250  million  of  Senior  Unsecured  Notes  matured,  and  the  repayment  was  funded  with  additional 
borrowings  under  our  Credit  Facility,  which  are  included  in  Long-term  debt. 


42 


During  2008  our  Shareholders’  Equity  decreased  approximately  $1.2  billion  resulting  in  the  Company  ending  the  year 
with  a  Shareholders’  Deficit.  This  decrease  was  primarily  driven  by  our  shareholder  payouts  of  approximately  $2  billion 
through  share  buybacks  and  dividends,  a  decline  in  the  unrecognized  funded  status  of  our  U.S.  pension  plans  of 
approximately  $200  million  and  approximately  $200  million  of  foreign  currency  translation  adjustments  during  the  year 
due  to  the  strengthening  of  the  U.S.  Dollar.  These  declines  were  partially  offset  by  the  Company’s  Net  income  for  the 
year  ended  December  27,  2008.  A  recorded  Shareholders’  Deficit  under  generally  accepted  accounting  principles  does 
not  by  itself  preclude  us  from  paying  dividends  to  our  shareholders  or  repurchasing  shares  of  our  Common  Stock. 

Liquidity  and  Capital  Resources 

Operating  in  the  QSR  industry  allows  us  to  generate  substantial  cash  flows  from  the  operations  of  our  company  stores  and 
from  our  substantial  franchise  operations  which  require  a  limited  YUM  investment.  In  each  of  the  last  seven  fiscal  years, 
net  cash  provided  by  operating  activities  has  exceeded  $1.1  billion.  We  expect  these  levels  of  net  cash  provided  by 
operating  activities  to  continue  in  the  foreseeable  future.  Additionally,  we  estimate  that  refranchising  proceeds,  prior  to 
income  taxes,  will  total  at  least  $250  million  in  2009.  However,  unforeseen  downturns  in  our  business  could  adversely 
impact  our  cash  flows  from  operations  from  the  levels  historically  realized  or  our  refranchising  proceeds  from  those 
amounts  expected. 

In  the  event  our  cash  flows  are  negatively  impacted  by  business  downturns,  we  believe  we  have  the  ability  to  temporarily 
reduce  our  discretionary  spending  without  significant  impact  to  our  long-term  business  prospects.  Our  discretionary 
spending  includes  capital  spending  for  new  restaurants,  acquisitions  of  restaurants  from  franchisees,  repurchases  of  shares 
of  our  Common  Stock  and  dividends  paid  to  our  shareholders.  Additionally,  as  of  December,  2008  we  had  approximately 
$1  billion  in  unused  capacity  under  revolving  credit  facilities  that  expire  in  2012.  Given  this  available  borrowing  capacity 
under  our  credit  facilities,  our  debt  maturity  schedule  and  our  ability  to  reduce  discretionary  spending,  we  do  not  believe 
we  will  need  to  access  the  credit  markets  during  2009.  To  help  ensure  that  we  do  not  need  to  access  the  credit  markets 
while  continuing  to  build  our  liquidity  and  maintaining  our  financial  flexibility,  we  do  not  currently  plan  to  repurchase 
shares  in  2009. 

Additionally,  we  are  managing  our  cash  and  debt  positions  in  order  to  maintain  our  current  investment  grade  ratings  from 
Standard  &  Poor’s  Rating  Services  (BBB-)  and  Moody’s  Investors  Service  (Baa3).  A  downgrade  of  our  credit  rating 
would  increase  the  Company’s  current  borrowing  costs  and  could  impact  the  Company’s  ability  to  access  the  credit 
markets  if  necessary.  Based  on  the  amount  and  composition  of  our  debt  at  December  27,  2008  our  interest  expense  would 
increase  approximately  $1.3  million  on  a  full  year  basis  should  we  receive  a  one-level  downgrade  in  our  ratings. 

Discretionary  Spending 

During  2008,  we  invested  $935  million  in  our  businesses,  including  approximately  $355  million  in  the  U.S.,  $260  million 
for  the  International  Division  and  $320  million  for  the  China  Division.  For  2009,  we  estimate  capital  spending  will  be 
approximately  $900  million. 

We  returned  approximately  $2  billion  to  our  shareholders  through  share  repurchases  and  quarterly  dividends  in  2008. 
This  is  the  fourth  straight  year  that  we  returned  over  $1.1  billion  to  our  shareholders.  Under  the  authority  of  our  Board  of 
Directors,  we  repurchased  46.8  million  shares  of  our  Common  Stock  for  $1.6  billion  during  2008.  As  mentioned  above, 
the  Company  does  not  currently  plan  to  repurchase  shares  during  2009. 

During  the  year  ended  December  27,  2008,  we  paid  cash  dividends  of  $322  million.  Additionally,  on  November  21,  2008 
our  Board  of  Directors  approved  cash  dividends  of  $.19  per  share  of  Common  Stock  to  be  distributed  on  February  6,  2009 
to  shareholders  of  record  at  the  close  of  business  on  January  16,  2009.  The  Company  is  targeting  an  ongoing  annual 
dividend  payout  ratio  of  35%  -  40%  of  net  income. 


43 


Borrowing  Capacity 


Our  primary  bank  credit  agreement  comprises  a  $1.15  billion  syndicated  senior  unsecured  revolving  credit  facility  (the 
“Credit  Facility”)  which  matures  in  November  2012  and  includes  23  participating  banks  with  commitments  ranging  from 
$20  million  to  $1 13  million.  We  believe  the  syndication  reduces  our  dependency  on  any  one  bank. 

Under  the  terms  of  the  Credit  Facility,  we  may  borrow  up  to  the  maximum  borrowing  limit,  less  outstanding  letters  of 
credit  or  banker’s  acceptances,  where  applicable.  At  December  27,  2008,  our  unused  Credit  Facility  totaled  $685  million 
net  of  outstanding  letters  of  credit  of  $166  million.  There  were  borrowings  of  $299  million  outstanding  under  the  Credit 
Facility  at  December  27,  2008.  The  interest  rate  for  borrowings  under  the  Credit  Facility  ranges  from  0.25%  to  1.25% 
over  the  London  Interbank  Offered  Rate  (“LIBOR”)  or  is  determined  by  an  Alternate  Base  Rate,  which  is  the  greater  of 
the  Prime  Rate  or  the  Federal  Funds  Rate  plus  0.50%.  The  exact  spread  over  LIBOR  or  the  Alternate  Base  Rate,  as 
applicable,  depends  on  our  performance  under  specified  financial  criteria.  Interest  on  any  outstanding  borrowings  under 
the  Credit  Facility  is  payable  at  least  quarterly. 

We  also  have  a  $350  million,  syndicated  revolving  credit  facility  (the  “International  Credit  Facility,”  or  “ICF”)  which 
matures  in  November  2012  and  includes  6  banks  with  commitments  ranging  from  $35  million  to  $90  million.  We  believe 
the  syndication  reduces  our  dependency  on  any  one  bank.  There  was  available  credit  of  $350  million  and  no  borrowings 
outstanding  under  the  ICF  at  the  end  of  2008.  The  interest  rate  for  borrowings  under  the  ICF  ranges  from  0.31%  to  1.50% 
over  LIBOR  or  is  determined  by  a  Canadian  Alternate  Base  Rate,  which  is  the  greater  of  the  Citibank,  N.A.,  Canadian 
Branch’s  publicly  announced  reference  rate  or  the  “Canadian  Dollar  Offered  Rate”  plus  0.50%.  The  exact  spread  over 
LIBOR  or  the  Canadian  Alternate  Base  Rate,  as  applicable,  depends  upon  YUM’s  performance  under  specified  financial 
criteria.  Interest  on  any  outstanding  borrowings  under  the  ICF  is  payable  at  least  quarterly. 

On  July  11,  2008  we  entered  into  a  variable  rate  senior  unsecured  term  loan  (“Domestic  Term  Loan”),  in  an  aggregate 
principal  amount  of  $375  million  that  matures  in  three  years.  At  our  discretion  the  variable  rate  resets  at  one,  two,  three  or 
six  month  intervals.  We  determine  whether  the  variable  rate  at  each  reset  date  is  based  upon:  (1)  LIBOR  plus  an 
applicable  spread  of  up  to  2.5%,  or  (2)  an  Alternative  Base  Rate.  The  Alternate  Base  Rate  is  the  greater  of  the  Prime  Rate 
or  the  Federal  Funds  Rate  plus  0.50%,  plus  an  applicable  spread  of  up  to  1.5%.  The  proceeds  from  the  Domestic  Term 
Loan  were  used  for  general  corporate  purposes. 

The  Credit  Facility,  Domestic  Term  Loan,  and  the  ICF  are  unconditionally  guaranteed  by  our  principal  domestic 
subsidiaries.  Additionally,  the  ICF  is  unconditionally  guaranteed  by  YUM.  These  agreements  contain  financial 
covenants  relating  to  maintenance  of  leverage  and  fixed  charge  coverage  ratios  and  also  contain  affirmative  and  negative 
covenants  including,  among  other  things,  limitations  on  certain  additional  indebtedness  and  liens,  and  certain  other 
transactions  specified  in  the  agreement.  Given  the  Company’s  strong  balance  sheet  and  cash  flows  we  were  able  to 
comply  with  all  debt  covenant  requirements  at  December  27,  2008  with  a  considerable  amount  of  cushion. 

The  majority  of  our  remaining  long-term  debt  primarily  comprises  Senior  Unsecured  Notes  with  varying  maturity  dates 
from  201 1  through  2037  and  interest  rates  ranging  from  6.25%  to  8.88%.  The  Senior  Unsecured  Notes  represent  senior, 
unsecured  obligations  and  rank  equally  in  right  of  payment  with  all  of  our  existing  and  future  unsecured  unsubordinated 
indebtedness.  Amounts  outstanding  under  Senior  Unsecured  Notes  were  $2.6  billion  at  December  27,  2008.  In  May 
2008,  $250  million  of  Senior  Unsecured  Notes  matured,  and  the  repayment  was  funded  with  additional  borrowings  under 
our  Credit  Facility. 


Contractual  Obligations 


In  addition  to  any  discretionary  spending  we  may  choose  to  make,  our  significant  contractual  obligations  and  payments  as 
of  December  27, 2008  included: 


Total 

Long-term  debt  obligations^  $  5,224 

Capital  leases(b)  384 

Operating  leases(b>  4,576 

Purchase  obligations^  675 

Other(d>  169 

Total  contractual  obligations  $  11,028 


Less  than  1 
Year 
$  201 
26 
491 
570 
144 
$  1,432 


1-3  Years 
$  1,365 

87 
860 
96 
9 

$  2,417 


3-5  Years 
$  925 

43 
701 
6 
7 

$  1,682 


More  than  5 
Years 
$  2,733 

228 
2,524 
3 
9 

$  5,497 


(a)  Debt  amounts  include  principal  maturities  and  expected  interest  payments.  Rates  utilized  to  determine  interest 
payments  for  variable  rate  debt  are  based  on  an  estimate  of  future  interest  rates.  Excludes  a  fair  value  adjustment 
of  $59  million  included  in  debt  related  to  interest  rate  swaps  that  hedge  the  fab  value  of  a  portion  of  our  debt. 
See  Note  12. 

(b)  These  obbgations,  which  are  shown  on  a  nominal  basis,  relate  to  more  than  5,800  restaurants.  See  Note  13. 

(c)  Purchase  obligations  include  agreements  to  purchase  goods  or  services  that  are  enforceable  and  legally  binding 
on  us  and  that  specify  all  significant  terms,  including:  fixed  or  minimum  quantities  to  be  purchased;  fixed, 
minimum  or  variable  price  provisions;  and  the  approximate  timing  of  the  transaction.  We  have  excluded 
agreements  that  are  cancelable  without  penalty.  Purchase  obligations  relate  primarily  to  information  technology, 
marketing,  commodity  agreements,  purchases  of  property,  plant  and  equipment  as  well  as  consulting, 
maintenance  and  other  agreements. 

(d)  Other  consists  of  2009  pension  plan  funding  obligations,  the  current  portion  of  unrecognized  tax  benefits  and 
projected  payments  for  deferred  compensation. 

We  have  not  included  in  the  contractual  obligations  table  approximately  $229  million  for  long-term  liabilities  for 
unrecognized  tax  benefits  for  various  tax  positions  we  have  taken.  These  liabilities  may  increase  or  decrease  over  time  as 
a  result  of  tax  examinations,  and  given  the  status  of  the  examinations,  we  cannot  reliably  estimate  the  period  of  any  cash 
settlement  with  the  respective  taxing  authorities.  These  liabilities  also  include  amounts  that  are  temporary  in  nature  and 
for  which  we  anticipate  that  over  time  there  will  be  no  net  cash  outflow.  We  have  included  in  the  contractual  obligations 
table  $53  million  in  liabilities  for  unrecognized  tax  benefits  that  we  expect  to  settle  in  cash  in  the  next  year. 

We  have  included  $85  million  in  contributions  we  expect  to  make  to  our  pension  plans  in  2009  in  the  contractual 
obligations  table.  Our  most  significant  plan,  the  YUM  Retirement  Plan  (the  “U.S.  Plan”),  is  a  noncontributory  defined 
benefit  pension  plan  covering  certain  full-time  U.S.  salaried  employees.  Our  funding  policy  with  respect  to  the  U.S.  Plan 
is  to  contribute  amounts  necessary  to  satisfy  minimum  pension  funding  requirements,  including  requirements  of  the 
Pension  Protection  Act  of  2006,  plus  such  additional  amounts  from  time  to  time  as  determined  to  be  appropriate  to 
improve  the  U.S.  Plan’s  funded  status.  We  currently  estimate  that  we  will  contribute  approximately  $80  million  to  the 
U.S.  Plan  in  2009.  Contributions  beyond  2009  will  depend  upon  the  timing  and  amount  of  our  asset  returns  as  well  as 
changes  in  applicable  discount  rates.  At  our  2008  measurement  date,  our  pension  plans  in  the  U.S.,  which  include  the 
U.S.  Plan  and  an  unfunded  supplemental  executive  plan,  had  a  projected  benefit  obligation  of  $923  million  and  plan  assets 
of  $513  million. 


45 


The  funding  rules  for  our  pension  plans  outside  of  the  U.S.  vary  from  country  to  country  and  depend  on  many  factors 
including  discount  rates,  performance  of  plan  assets,  local  laws  and  regulations.  Our  most  significant  plans  are  in  the 
U.K.  The  projected  benefit  obligation  of  our  pension  plans  in  the  U.K.  exceeded  plan  assets  by  $43  million  at  our  2008 
measurement  date.  We  have  committed  to  make  a  discretionary  funding  contribution  of  approximately  $5  million  in  2009 
to  one  of  these  plans.  The  plans  are  currently  under  review  to  determine  if  additional  discretionary  pension  funding 
payments  will  be  committed  to  in  2009. 

Our  postretirement  plan  in  the  U.S.  is  not  required  to  be  funded  in  advance,  but  is  pay  as  you  go.  We  made  postretirement 
benefit  payments  of  $5  million  in  2008  and  no  future  funding  amounts  are  included  in  the  contractual  obligations  table. 
See  Note  15  for  further  details  about  our  pension  and  postretirement  plans. 

We  have  excluded  from  the  contractual  obligations  table  payments  we  may  make  for  exposures  for  which  we  are  self- 
insured,  including  workers’  compensation,  employment  practices  liability,  general  liability,  automobile  liability,  product 
liabihty  and  property  losses  (collectively  “property  and  casualty  losses”)  and  employee  healthcare  and  long-term 
disability  claims. 

The  majority  of  our  recorded  liability  for  self-insured  employee  healthcare,  long-term  disability  and  property  and  casualty 
losses  represents  estimated  reserves  for  incurred  claims  that  have  yet  to  be  filed  or  settled. 

Off-Balance  Sheet  Arrangements 

We  have  provided  a  partial  guarantee  of  approximately  $16  million  of  a  franchisee  loan  program  used  primarily  to  assist 
franchisees  in  the  development  of  new  restaurants  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  in  connection  with  the  Company’s  historical 
refranchising  programs  at  December  27,  2008.  We  have  also  provided  two  letters  of  credit  totaling  approximately  $23 
million  in  support  of  the  franchisee  loan  program.  One  such  letter  of  credit  could  be  used  if  we  fail  to  meet  our 
obligations  under  our  guarantee.  The  other  letter  of  credit  could  be  used,  in  certain  circumstances,  to  fund  our 
participation  in  the  funding  of  the  franchisee  loan  program.  The  total  loans  outstanding  under  the  loan  pool  were 
approximately  $48  million  at  December  27,  2008. 

Our  unconsolidated  affiliates  had  approximately  $5 1  million  and  $22  million  of  debt  outstanding  as  of  December  27,  2008 
and  December  29,  2007,  respectively. 

New  Accounting  Pronouncements  Not  Yet  Adopted 

See  Note  2  to  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  Part  II,  Item  8  of  this  report  for  further  details  of  new 
accounting  pronouncements  not  yet  adopted. 

Critical  Accounting  Policies  and  Estimates 

Our  reported  results  are  impacted  by  the  application  of  certain  accounting  policies  that  require  us  to  make  subjective  or 
complex  judgments.  These  judgments  involve  estimations  of  the  effect  of  matters  that  are  inherently  uncertain  and  may 
significantly  impact  our  quarterly  or  annual  results  of  operations  or  financial  condition.  Changes  in  the  estimates  and 
judgments  could  significantly  affect  our  results  of  operations,  financial  condition  and  cash  flows  in  future  years.  A 
description  of  what  we  consider  to  be  our  most  significant  critical  accounting  policies  follows. 


46 


reports.c 


Impairment  or  Disposal  of  Long-Lived  Assets 


We  evaluate  our  restaurant  assets  and  certain  definite-lived  intangible  assets  for  impairment  at  the  individual  restaurant 
level  except  when  there  is  an  expectation  that  we  will  refranchise  restaurants  as  a  group.  Impairment  evaluations  for 
individual  restaurants  that  we  are  currently  operating  and  have  not  offered  for  sale  are  performed  on  a  semi-annual  basis 
or  whenever  events  or  circumstances  indicate  that  the  carrying  amount  of  a  restaurant  may  not  be  recoverable  (including  a 
decision  to  close  a  restaurant).  Our  semi-annual  impairment  test  includes  those  restaurants  that  have  experienced  two 
consecutive  years  of  operating  losses.  Our  semi-annual  impairment  evaluations  require  an  estimation  of  forecasted  cash 
flows  of  the  restaurant  and  any  terminal  value.  We  limit  assumptions  about  important  factors  such  as  sales  growth  and 
margin  improvement  to  those  that  are  supportable  based  upon  our  plans  for  the  unit  and  actual  results  at  comparable 
restaurants. 

If  the  long-lived  assets  of  a  restaurant  subject  to  our  semi-annual  test  are  not  recoverable  based  upon  forecasted, 
undiscounted  cash  flows,  we  write  the  assets  down  to  their  fair  value.  This  fair  value  is  determined  by  discounting  the 
forecasted  after  tax  cash  flows,  including  terminal  value,  of  the  restaurant.  The  discount  rate  is  our  estimate  of  the 
required  rate  of  return  that  a  third-party  buyer  would  expect  to  receive  when  purchasing  a  restaurant  or  groups  of 
restaurants  and  its  related  long-lived  assets.  The  discount  rate  incorporates  observed  rates  of  returns  for  historical 
refranchising  market  transactions  and  we  believe  it  is  commensurate  with  the  risks  and  uncertainty  inherent  in  the 
forecasted  cash  flows. 

We  often  refranchise  restaurants  in  groups  and,  therefore,  perform  such  impairment  evaluations  at  the  group  level.  These 
impairment  evaluations  are  generally  performed  at  the  date  such  restaurants  are  offered  for  sale.  Forecasted  cash  flows  in 
such  instances  consist  of  estimated  holding  period  cash  flows  and  the  expected  sales  proceeds.  Expected  sales  proceeds 
are  based  on  the  most  relevant  of  historical  sales  multiples  or  bids  from  buyers,  and  have  historically  been  reasonably 
accurate  estimations  of  the  proceeds  ultimately  received. 

We  have  certain  definite-lived  intangible  assets  that  are  not  attributable  to  a  specific  restaurant,  such  as  the  LJS  and  A&W 
trademark/brand  intangible  assets  and  franchise  contract  rights,  which  are  amortized  over  their  expected  useful  lives.  We 
base  the  expected  useful  lives  of  our  trademark/brand  intangible  assets  on  a  number  of  factors  including  the  competitive 
environment,  our  future  development  plans  for  the  applicable  Concept  and  the  level  of  franchisee  commitment  to  the 
Concept.  We  generally  base  the  expected  useful  lives  of  our  franchise  contract  rights  on  their  respective  contractual  terms 
including  renewals  when  appropriate. 

These  definite-lived  intangible  assets  are  evaluated  for  impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances  indicate 
that  the  carrying  amount  of  the  intangible  asset  may  not  be  recoverable.  An  intangible  asset  that  is  deemed  impaired  is 
written  down  to  its  estimated  fair  value,  which  is  based  on  discounted  cash  flows.  For  purposes  of  our  impairment 
analysis,  we  update  the  cash  flows  that  were  initially  used  to  value  the  definite-lived  intangible  asset  to  reflect  our  current 
estimates  and  assumptions  over  the  asset’s  future  remaining  life. 

See  Note  2  for  a  further  discussion  of  our  policy  regarding  the  impairment  or  disposal  of  long-lived  assets. 

Impairment  of  Goodwill 

We  evaluate  goodwill  for  impairment  on  an  annual  basis  or  more  often  if  an  event  occurs  or  circumstances  change  that 
indicates  impairment  might  exist.  Goodwill  is  evaluated  for  impairment  through  the  comparison  of  fair  value  of  our 
reporting  units  to  their  carrying  values.  Our  reporting  units  are  our  operating  segments  in  the  U.S.  and  our  business 
management  units  internationally  (typically  individual  countries).  Fair  value  is  the  price  a  willing  buyer  would  pay  for  the 
reporting  unit,  and  is  generally  estimated  using  either  discounted  expected  future  cash  flows  from  operations  or  the 
present  value  of  the  estimated  future  franchise  royalty  stream  plus  any  estimated  sales  proceeds  from  refranchising. 


47 


Future  cash  flow  estimates  and  the  discount  rate  are  the  key  assumptions  when  estimating  the  fair  value  of  a  reporting 
unit.  Future  cash  flows  are  based  on  our  growth  expectations  relative  to  recent  historical  performance.  These  growth 
expectations  are  based  on  assumptions  for  key  performance  indicators  such  as  company  sales,  franchise  and  license  fees 
and  restaurant  profit  and  are  consistent  with  our  internal  operating  plans.  The  discount  rate  is  our  estimate  of  the  required 
rate  of  return  that  a  third-party  buyer  would  expect  to  receive  when  purchasing  a  business  from  us  that  constitutes  a 
reporting  unit.  We  believe  the  discount  rate  is  commensurate  with  the  risks  and  uncertainty  inherent  in  the  forecasted  cash 
flows. 

We  have  two  international  reporting  units  that  have  experienced  deteriorating  operating  performance  over  the  past  few 
years.  These  reporting  units  have  goodwill  of  $100  million  and  $36  million  as  of  the  end  of  2008.  The  assumptions  used 
in  determining  fair  value  for  these  reporting  units  reflect  our  belief  that  the  businesses  are  experiencing  temporary 
declines  and  that  they  will  turn  around.  While  these  growth  assumptions  are  consistent  with  our  internal  operating  plans 
and  reflect  what  we  believe  are  reasonable  and  achievable  growth  rates,  failure  to  realize  these  growth  rates  could  result  in 
future  impairment  of  some  or  all  of  the  recorded  goodwill.  Likewise,  if  we  believe  the  risks  inherent  in  the  businesses 
increase,  the  resulting  change  in  the  discount  rate  could  result  in  future  impairment  of  some  or  all  of  the  recorded 
goodwill. 

See  Note  2  for  a  further  discussion  of  our  policies  regarding  goodwill. 

Allowances  for  Franchise  and  License  Receivables/Lease  Guarantees 


We  reserve  a  franchisee’s  or  licensee’s  entire  receivable  balance  based  upon  pre-defined  aging  criteria  and  upon  the 
occurrence  of  other  events  that  indicate  that  we  may  not  collect  the  balance  due.  As  a  result  of  reserving  using  this 
methodology,  we  have  an  immaterial  amount  of  receivables  that  are  past  due  that  have  not  been  reserved  for  at  December 
27,  2008. 

We  have  also  issued  certain  guarantees  as  a  result  of  assigning  our  interest  in  obligations  under  operating  leases,  primarily 
as  a  condition  to  the  refranchising  of  certain  Company  restaurants.  Such  guarantees  are  subject  to  the  requirements  of 
Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  (“SFAS”)  No.  145,  “Rescission  of  FASB  Statements  No.  4,  44  and  64, 
Amendment  of  FASB  Statement  No.  13,  and  Technical  Corrections”  (“SFAS  145”).  We  recognize  a  liability  for  the  fair 
value  of  such  lease  guarantees  under  SFAS  145  upon  reffanchising  and  upon  any  subsequent  renewals  of  such  leases 
when  we  remain  contingently  liable.  The  fair  value  of  a  guarantee  is  the  estimated  amount  at  which  the  liability  could  be 
settled  in  a  current  transaction  between  willing  unrelated  parties. 

If  payment  on  the  guarantee  becomes  probable  and  estimable,  we  record  a  liability  for  our  exposure  under  these  lease 
assignments  and  guarantees.  At  December  27,  2008,  we  have  recorded  an  immaterial  liability  for  our  exposure  which  we 
consider  to  be  probable  and  estimable.  The  potential  total  exposure  under  such  leases  is  significant,  with  approximately 
$325  million  representing  the  present  value,  discounted  at  our  pre-tax  cost  of  debt,  of  the  minimum  payments  of  the 
assigned  leases  at  December  27,  2008.  Current  franchisees  are  the  primary  lessees  under  the  vast  majority  of  these  leases. 
We  generally  have  cross-default  provisions  with  these  franchisees  that  would  put  them  in  default  of  their  franchise 
agreement  in  the  event  of  non-payment  under  the  lease.  We  believe  these  cross-default  provisions  significantly  reduce  the 
risk  that  we  will  be  required  to  make  payments  under  these  leases  and,  historically,  we  have  not  been  required  to  make 
such  payments  in  significant  amounts. 

See  Note  2  for  a  further  discussion  of  our  policies  regarding  franchise  and  license  operations. 

See  Note  14  for  a  further  discussion  of  our  lease  guarantees. 


Self-Insured  Property  and  Casualty  Losses 


We  record  our  best  estimate  of  the  remaining  cost  to  settle  incurred  self-insured  property  and  casualty  losses.  The 
estimate  is  based  on  the  results  of  an  independent  actuarial  study  and  considers  historical  claim  frequency  and  severity  as 
well  as  changes  in  factors  such  as  our  business  environment,  benefit  levels,  medical  costs  and  the  regulatory  environment 
that  could  impact  overall  self-insurance  costs.  Additionally,  a  risk  margin  to  cover  unforeseen  events  that  may  occur  over 
the  several  years  it  takes  for  claims  to  settle  is  included  in  our  reserve,  increasing  our  confidence  level  that  the  recorded 
reserve  is  adequate. 

See  Note  21  for  a  further  discussion  of  our  insurance  programs. 

Pension  Plans 


Certain  of  our  employees  are  covered  under  defined  benefit  pension  plans.  The  most  significant  of  these  plans  are  in  the 
U.S.  We  have  recorded  the  under-funded  status  of  $410  million  for  these  U.S.  plans  as  a  pension  liability  in  our 
Consolidated  Balance  Sheet  as  of  December  27,  2008.  These  U.S.  plans  had  a  projected  benefit  obligation  (“PBO”)  of 
$923  million  and  a  fair  value  of  plan  assets  of  $5 1 3  million  at  December  27,  2008 . 

The  PBO  reflects  the  actuarial  present  value  of  all  benefits  earned  to  date  by  employees  and  incorporates  assumptions  as 
to  future  compensation  levels.  Due  to  the  relatively  long  time  frame  over  which  benefits  earned  to  date  are  expected  to  be 
paid,  our  PBO’s  are  highly  sensitive  to  changes  in  discount  rates.  For  our  U.S.  plans,  we  measured  our  PBO  using  a 
discount  rate  of  6.5%  at  December  27,  2008.  This  discount  rate  was  determined  with  the  assistance  of  our  independent 
actuary.  The  primary  basis  for  our  discount  rate  determination  is  a  model  that  consists  of  a  hypothetical  portfolio  of  ten  or 
more  corporate  debt  instruments  rated  Aa  or  higher  by  Moody’s  with  cash  flows  that  mirror  our  expected  benefit  payment 
cash  flows  under  the  plans.  We  excluded  from  the  model  those  corporate  debt  instruments  flagged  by  Moody’s  for  a 
potential  downgrade  and  bonds  with  yields  that  were  two  standard  deviations  or  more  above  the  mean.  In  considering 
possible  bond  portfolios,  the  model  allows  the  bond  cash  flows  for  a  particular  year  to  exceed  the  expected  benefit  cash 
flows  for  that  year.  Such  excesses  are  assumed  to  be  reinvested  at  appropriate  one-year  forward  rates  and  used  to  meet 
the  benefit  cash  flows  in  a  future  year.  The  weighted  average  yield  of  this  hypothetical  portfolio  was  used  to  arrive  at  an 
appropriate  discount  rate.  We  also  insure  that  changes  in  the  discount  rate  as  compared  to  the  prior  year  are  consistent 
with  the  overall  change  in  prevailing  market  rates  and  make  adjustments  as  necessary.  A  50  basis  point  increase  in  this 
discount  rate  would  have  decreased  our  U.S.  plans’  PBO  by  approximately  $64  million  at  our  measurement  date. 
Conversely,  a  50  basis  point  decrease  in  this  discount  rate  would  have  increased  our  U.S.  plans’  PBO  by  approximately 
$74  million  at  our  measurement  dates. 

The  pension  expense  we  will  record  in  2009  is  also  impacted  by  the  discount  rate  we  selected  at  our  measurement  date. 
We  expect  pension  expense  for  our  U.S.  plans  to  increase  approximately  $3  million  to  $39  million  in  2009.  The  increase 
is  primarily  driven  by  an  increase  in  amortization  of  net  loss.  A  50  basis  point  change  in  our  discount  rate  assumption  at 
our  measurement  date  would  impact  our  2009  U.S.  pension  expense  by  approximately  $12  million. 

The  assumption  we  make  regarding  our  expected  long-term  rates  of  return  on  plan  assets  also  impacts  our  pension 
expense.  Our  estimated  long-term  rate  of  return  on  U.S.  plan  assets  represents  the  weighted-average  of  historical  returns 
for  each  asset  category,  adjusted  for  an  assessment  of  current  market  conditions.  Our  expected  long-term  rate  of  return  on 
U.S.  plan  assets  at  December  27,  2008  was  8.0%.  We  believe  this  rate  is  appropriate  given  the  composition  of  our  plan 
assets  and  historical  market  returns  thereon.  A  one  percentage  point  increase  or  decrease  in  our  expected  long-term  rate  of 
return  on  plan  assets  assumption  would  decrease  or  increase,  respectively,  our  2009  U.S.  pension  plan  expense  by 
approximately  $7  million. 


49 


The  losses  our  U.S.  plan  assets  have  experienced,  along  with  a  decrease  in  discount  rates  over  time,  have  largely 
contributed  to  an  unrecognized  pre-tax  net  loss  of  $374  million  included  in  Accumulated  other  comprehensive  income 
(loss)  for  the  U.S.  plans  at  December  27,  2008.  For  purposes  of  determining  2008  expense,  our  funded  status  was  such 
that  we  recognized  $6  million  of  net  loss  in  net  periodic  benefit  cost.  We  will  recognize  approximately  $13  million  of 
such  loss  in  2009. 

See  Note  15  for  further  discussion  of  our  pension  and  post-retirement  plans. 

Stock  Options  and  Stock  Appreciation  Rights  Expense 

Compensation  expense  for  stock  options  and  stock  appreciation  rights  (“SARs”)  is  estimated  on  the  grant  date  using  a 
Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model.  Our  specific  weighted-average  assumptions  for  the  risk-free  interest  rate,  expected 
term,  expected  volatility  and  expected  dividend  yield  are  documented  in  Note  16.  Additionally,  under  SFAS  No.  123 
(revised  2004),  “Share-Based  Compensation”  (“SFAS  123R”)  we  are  required  to  estimate  pre-vesting  forfeitures  for 
purposes  of  determining  compensation  expense  to  be  recognized.  Future  expense  amounts  for  any  particular  quarterly  or 
annual  period  could  be  affected  by  changes  in  our  assumptions  or  changes  in  market  conditions. 

We  have  determined  that  it  is  appropriate  to  group  our  awards  into  two  homogeneous  groups  when  estimating  expected 
term  and  pre-vesting  forfeitures.  These  groups  consist  of  grants  made  primarily  to  restaurant-level  employees  under  our 
Restaurant  General  Manager  Stock  Option  Plan  (the  “RGM  Plan”)  and  grants  made  to  executives  under  our  other  stock 
award  plans.  Historically,  approximately  15%  -  20%  of  total  options  and  SARs  granted  have  been  made  under  the  RGM 
Plan. 

Grants  under  the  RGM  Plan  typically  cliff  vest  after  four  years  and  grants  made  to  executives  under  our  other  stock  award 
plans  typically  have  a  graded  vesting  schedule  and  vest  25%  per  year  over  four  years.  We  use  a  single  weighted-average 
expected  term  for  our  awards  that  have  a  graded  vesting  schedule  as  permitted  by  SFAS  123  R.  We  revaluate  our  expected 
term  assumptions  using  historical  exercise  and  post-vesting  employment  termination  behavior  on  a  regular  basis.  Based 
on  the  results  of  this  analysis,  we  have  determined  that  six  years  is  an  appropriate  expected  term  for  awards  to  both 
restaurant  level  employees  and  to  executives. 

Upon  each  stock  award  grant  we  revaluate  the  expected  volatility,  including  consideration  of  both  historical  volatility  of 
our  stock  as  well  as  implied  volatility  associated  with  our  traded  options.  We  have  estimated  forfeitures  based  on 
historical  data.  Based  on  such  data,  we  believe  that  approximately  50%  of  all  awards  granted  under  the  RGM  Plan  will  be 
forfeited  and  approximately  20%  of  all  awards  granted  to  above-store  executives  will  be  forfeited. 

Income  Taxes 


At  December  27,  2008,  we  had  a  valuation  allowance  of  $254  million  primarily  to  reduce  our  net  operating  loss  and  tax 
credit  carryforward  benefits  of  $256  million,  as  well  as  our  other  deferred  tax  assets,  to  amounts  that  will  more  likely  than 
not  be  realized.  The  net  operating  loss  and  tax  credit  carryforwards  exist  in  federal,  state  and  foreign  jurisdictions  that 
have  varying  carryforward  periods  and  restrictions  on  usage,  including  approximately  $150  million  in  certain  foreign 
jurisdictions  that  may  be  carried  forward  indefinitely.  The  estimation  of  future  taxable  income  in  these  jurisdictions  and 
our  resulting  ability  to  utilize  net  operating  loss  and  tax  credit  carryforwards  can  significantly  change  based  on  future 
events,  including  our  determinations  as  to  the  feasibility  of  certain  tax  planning  strategies.  Thus,  recorded  valuation 
allowances  may  be  subject  to  material  future  changes. 


As  a  matter  of  course,  we  are  regularly  audited  by  federal,  state  and  foreign  tax  authorities.  Effective  December  31,  2006, 
we  adopted  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  (“FASB”)  Interpretation  No.  48,  “Accounting  for  Uncertainty  in 
Income  Taxes”  an  interpretation  of  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No.  109,  “Accounting  for  Income 
Taxes”  (“FIN  48”).  FIN  48  requires  that  a  position  taken  or  expected  to  be  taken  in  a  tax  return  be  recognized  in  the 
financial  statements  when  it  is  more  likely  than  not  (i.e.  a  likelihood  of  more  than  fifty  percent)  that  the  position  would  be 
sustained  upon  examination  by  tax  authorities.  A  recognized  tax  position  is  then  measured  at  the  largest  amount  of 
benefit  that  is  greater  than  fifty  percent  likely  of  being  realized  upon  settlement.  At  December  27,  2008,  we  had  $296 
million  of  unrecognized  tax  benefits,  $225  million  of  which,  if  recognized,  would  affect  the  effective  tax  rate.  Since 
adopting  FIN  48,  we  have  evaluated  unrecognized  tax  benefits,  including  interest  thereon,  on  a  quarterly  basis  to  insure 
that  they  have  been  appropriately  adjusted  for  events,  including  audit  settlements,  which  may  impact  our  ultimate 
payment  for  such  exposures. 

Additionally,  we  have  not  recorded  the  deferred  tax  impact  for  certain  undistributed  earnings  from  our  foreign  subsidiaries 
totaling  approximately  $1.1  billion  at  December  27,  2008,  as  we  believe  these  amounts  are  indefinitely  reinvested.  If  our 
intentions  were  to  change  in  the  future  based  on  a  change  in  circumstances,  deferred  tax  may  need  to  be  provided  that 
could  materially  impact  income  taxes. 

See  Note  19  for  a  further  discussion  of  our  income  taxes. 


51 


Item  7A. 


Quantitative  and  Qualitative  Disclosures  About  Market  Risk. 


The  Company  is  exposed  to  financial  market  risks  associated  with  interest  rates,  foreign  currency  exchange  rates  and 
commodity  prices.  In  the  normal  course  of  business  and  in  accordance  with  our  policies,  we  manage  these  risks  through  a 
variety  of  strategies,  which  may  include  the  use  of  derivative  financial  and  commodity  instruments  to  hedge  our 
underlying  exposures.  Our  policies  prohibit  the  use  of  derivative  instruments  for  trading  purposes,  and  we  have 
procedures  in  place  to  monitor  and  control  their  use. 

Interest  Rate  Risk 


We  have  a  market  risk  exposure  to  changes  in  interest  rates,  principally  in  the  U.S.  We  attempt  to  minimize  this  risk  and 
lower  our  overall  borrowing  costs  through  the  utilization  of  derivative  financial  instruments,  primarily  interest  rate  swaps. 
These  swaps  are  entered  into  with  financial  institutions  and  have  reset  dates  and  critical  terms  that  match  those  of  the 
underlying  debt.  Accordingly,  any  change  in  market  value  associated  with  interest  rate  swaps  is  offset  by  the  opposite 
market  impact  on  the  related  debt. 

At  December  27,  2008  and  December  29,  2007,  a  hypothetical  100  basis  point  increase  in  short-term  interest  rates  would 
result,  over  the  following  twelve-month  period,  in  a  reduction  of  approximately  $9  million  and  $3  million,  respectively,  in 
income  before  income  taxes.  The  estimated  reductions  are  based  upon  the  current  level  of  variable  rate  debt  and  assume 
no  changes  in  the  volume  or  composition  of  that  debt  and  include  no  impact  from  interest  income  related  to  cash  and  cash 
equivalents.  In  addition,  the  fair  value  of  our  derivative  financial  instruments  at  December  27,  2008  and  December  29, 
2007  would  decrease  approximately  $35  million  and  $31  million,  respectively.  The  fair  value  of  our  Senior  Unsecured 
Notes  at  December  27,  2008  and  December  29,  2007  would  decrease  approximately  $120  million  and  $173  million, 
respectively.  Fair  value  was  determined  based  on  the  present  value  of  expected  future  cash  flows  considering  the  risks 
involved  and  using  discount  rates  appropriate  for  the  duration. 

Foreign  Currency  Exchange  Rate  Risk 

The  combined  International  Division  and  China  Division  Operating  Profits  constitute  approximately  60%  of  our 
Operating  Profit  in  2008,  excluding  unallocated  income  (expenses).  In  addition,  the  Company’s  net  asset  exposure 
(defined  as  foreign  currency  assets  less  foreign  currency  liabilities)  totaled  approximately  $2.1  billion  as  of  December  27, 
2008.  Operating  in  international  markets  exposes  the  Company  to  movements  in  foreign  currency  exchange  rates.  The 
Company’s  primary  exposures  result  from  our  operations  in  Asia-Pacific,  Europe  and  the  Americas.  Changes  in  foreign 
currency  exchange  rates  would  impact  the  translation  of  our  investments  in  foreign  operations,  the  fair  value  of  our 
foreign  currency  denominated  financial  instruments  and  our  reported  foreign  currency  denominated  earnings  and  cash 
flows.  For  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  27,  2008,  Operating  Profit  would  have  decreased  $109  million  if  all  foreign 
currencies  had  uniformly  weakened  10%  relative  to  the  U.S.  dollar.  The  estimated  reduction  assumes  no  changes  in  sales 
volumes  or  local  currency  sales  or  input  prices. 

We  attempt  to  minimize  the  exposure  related  to  our  investments  in  foreign  operations  by  financing  those  investments  with 
local  currency  debt  when  practical.  In  addition,  we  attempt  to  minimize  the  exposure  related  to  foreign  currency 
denominated  financial  instruments  by  purchasing  goods  and  services  from  third  parties  in  local  currencies  when  practical. 
Consequently,  foreign  currency  denominated  financial  instruments  consist  primarily  of  intercompany  short-term 
receivables  and  payables.  At  times,  we  utilize  forward  contracts  to  reduce  our  exposure  related  to  these  intercompany 
short-term  receivables  and  payables.  The  notional  amount  and  maturity  dates  of  these  contracts  match  those  of  the 
underlying  receivables  or  payables  such  that  our  foreign  currency  exchange  risk  related  to  these  instruments  is  minimized. 

Commodity  Price  Risk 

We  are  subject  to  volatility  in  food  costs  as  a  result  of  market  risk  associated  with  commodity  prices.  Our  ability  to 
recover  increased  costs  through  higher  pricing  is,  at  times,  limited  by  the  competitive  environment  in  which  we  operate. 
We  manage  our  exposure  to  this  risk  primarily  through  pricing  agreements  with  our  vendors. 


Item  8. 


Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data. 


INDEX  TO  FINANCIAL  INFORMATION 


Page 

Reference 


Consolidated  Financial  Statements 

Reports  of  Independent  Registered  Public  Accounting  Firm  54 

Consolidated  Statements  of  Income  for  the  fiscal  years  ended  December  27,  2008, 

December  29,  2007  and  December  30,  2006  56 

Consolidated  Statements  of  Cash  Flows  for  the  fiscal  years  ended  December  27,  2008, 

December  29,  2007  and  December  30,  2006  57 

Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  as  of  December  27, 2008  and  December  29,  2007  58 

Consolidated  Statements  of  Shareholders’  Equity  (Deficit)  and  Comprehensive  Income 
(Loss)  for  the  fiscal  years  ended  December  27,  2008,  December  29,  2007  and 
December  30,  2006  59 

Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  60 

Management’s  Responsibility  for  Financial  Statements  106 

Financial  Statement  Schedules 


No  schedules  are  required  because  either  the  required  information  is  not  present  or  not  present  in  amounts  sufficient  to 
require  submission  of  the  schedule,  or  because  the  information  required  is  included  in  the  above  listed  financial  statements 
or  notes  thereto. 


53 


Report  of  Independent  Registered  Public  Accounting  Firm 


The  Board  of  Directors  and  Shareholders 
YUM!  Brands,  Inc.: 


We  have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets  of  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  (YUM)  as  of 
December  27,  2008  and  December  29,  2007,  and  the  related  consolidated  statements  of  income,  cash  flows,  and 
shareholders’  equity  (deficit)  and  comprehensive  income  (loss)  for  each  of  the  years  in  the  three-year  period  ended 
December  27,  2008.  These  consolidated  financial  statements  are  the  responsibility  of  YUM’s  management.  Our 
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated  financial  statements  based  on  our  audits. 

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  the  standards  of  the  Public  Company  Accounting  Oversight  Board  (United 
States).  Those  standards  require  that  we  plan  and  perform  the  audit  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether  the 
financial  statements  are  free  of  material  misstatement.  An  audit  includes  examining,  on  a  test  basis,  evidence  supporting 
the  amounts  and  disclosures  in  the  financial  statements.  An  audit  also  includes  assessing  the  accounting  principles  used 
and  significant  estimates  made  by  management,  as  well  as  evaluating  the  overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We 
believe  that  our  audits  provide  a  reasonable  basis  for  our  opinion. 

In  our  opinion,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  referred  to  above  present  fairly,  in  all  material  respects,  the  financial 
position  of  YUM  as  of  December  27,  2008  and  December  29,  2007,  and  the  results  of  its  operations  and  its  cash  flows  for 
each  of  the  years  in  the  three-year  period  ended  December  27,  2008,  in  conformity  with  U.S.  generally  accepted 
accounting  principles. 

As  discussed  in  the  Notes  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  YUM  adopted  the  provisions  of  Financial  Accounting 
Standards  Board  Interpretation  No.  48,  Accounting  for  Uncertainty  in  Income  Taxes,  in  2007,  and  Statement  of  Financial 
Accounting  Standards  (SFAS)  No.  158,  Employers’  Accounting  for  Defined  Benefit  Pension  and  Other  Postretirement 
Plans,  and  Staff  Accounting  Bulletin  No.  108,  Considering  the  Effects  of  Prior  Year  Misstatements  when  Quantifying 
Misstatements  in  the  Current  Year,  in  2006. 

We  also  have  audited,  in  accordance  with  the  standards  of  the  Public  Company  Accounting  Oversight  Board  (United 
States),  YUM’s  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  as  of  December  27,  2008,  based  on  criteria  established  in  Internal 
Control  -  Integrated  Framework  issued  by  the  Committee  of  Sponsoring  Organizations  of  the  Treadway  Commission, 
and  our  report  dated  February  23,  2009  expressed  an  unqualified  opinion  on  the  effectiveness  of  internal  control  over 
financial  reporting. 


Is/  KPMG  LLP 
Louisville,  Kentucky 
February  23,  2009 


54 


Report  of  Independent  Registered  Public  Accounting  Firm 


The  Board  of  Directors  and  Shareholders 
YUM!  Brands,  Inc.: 


We  have  audited  the  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  of  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  (YUM)  as  of 
December  27,  2008,  based  on  criteria  established  in  Internal  Control— Integrated  Framework  issued  by  the  Committee  of 
Sponsoring  Organizations  of  the  Treadway  Commission.  YUM’s  management  is  responsible  for  maintaining  effective 
internal  control  over  financial  reporting  and  for  its  assessment  of  the  effectiveness  of  internal  control  over  financial 
reporting,  included  in  “Management’s  Report  on  Internal  Control  over  Financial  Reporting”  appearing  under  Item  9 A. 
Our  responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  YUM’s  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  based  on  our  audit. 

We  conducted  our  audit  in  accordance  with  the  standards  of  the  Public  Company  Accounting  Oversight  Board  (United 
States).  Those  standards  require  that  we  plan  and  perform  the  audit  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether 
effective  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  was  maintained  in  all  material  respects.  Our  audit  included  obtaining  an 
understanding  of  internal  control  over  financial  reporting,  assessing  the  risk  that  a  material  weakness  exists,  and  testing 
and  evaluating  the  design  and  operating  effectiveness  of  internal  control  based  on  the  assessed  risk.  Our  audit  also 
included  performing  such  other  procedures  as  we  considered  necessary  in  the  circumstances.  We  believe  that  our  audit 
provides  a  reasonable  basis  for  our  opinion. 

A  company's  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  is  a  process  designed  to  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  the 
reliability  of  financial  reporting  and  the  preparation  of  financial  statements  for  external  purposes  in  accordance  with 
generally  accepted  accounting  principles.  A  company's  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  includes  those  policies 
and  procedures  that  (1)  pertain  to  the  maintenance  of  records  that,  in  reasonable  detail,  accurately  and  fairly  reflect  the 
transactions  and  dispositions  of  the  assets  of  the  company;  (2)  provide  reasonable  assurance  that  transactions  are  recorded 
as  necessary  to  permit  preparation  of  financial  statements  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles, 
and  that  receipts  and  expenditures  of  the  company  are  being  made  only  in  accordance  with  authorizations  of  management 
and  directors  of  the  company;  and  (3)  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  prevention  or  timely  detection  of 
unauthorized  acquisition,  use,  or  disposition  of  the  company’s  assets  that  could  have  a  material  effect  on  the  financial 
statements. 

Because  of  its  inherent  limitations,  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  may  not  prevent  or  detect  misstatements. 
Also,  projections  of  any  evaluation  of  effectiveness  to  future  periods  are  subject  to  the  risk  that  controls  may  become 
inadequate  because  of  changes  in  conditions,  or  that  the  degree  of  compliance  with  the  policies  or  procedures  may 
deteriorate. 

In  our  opinion,  YUM  maintained,  in  all  material  respects,  effective  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  as  of 
December  27,  2008,  based  on  criteria  established  in  Internal  Control— Integrated  Framework  issued  by  the  Committee  of 
Sponsoring  Organizations  of  the  Treadway  Commission. 

We  also  have  audited,  in  accordance  with  the  standards  of  the  Public  Company  Accounting  Oversight  Board  (United 
States),  the  consolidated  balance  sheets  of  YUM  as  of  December  27,  2008  and  December  29,  2007,  and  the  related 
consolidated  statements  of  income,  cash  flows,  and  shareholders’  equity  (deficit)  and  comprehensive  income  (loss)  for 
each  of  the  years  in  the  three-year  period  ended  December  27,  2008,  and  our  report  dated  February  23,  2009  expressed  an 
unqualified  opinion  on  those  consolidated  financial  statements. 


Is/  KPMG  LLP 
Louisville,  Kentucky 
February  23,  2009 


55 


Consolidated  Statements  of  Income 

YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries 

Fiscal  years  ended  December  27,  2008,  December  29,  2007  and  December  30,  2006 
(in  thillicraSj  except  per  share  data)  , 


2008 

2007 

2006 

Revenues 

Company  sales 

$ 

9,843 

$ 

9,100 

$ 

8,365 

Franchise  and  license  fees 

1,436 

1,316 

1,196 

Total  revenues 

11,279 

10,416 

9,561 

Costs  and  Expenses,  Net 

Company  restaurants 

Food  and  paper 

3,239 

2,824 

2,549 

Payroll  and  employee  benefits 

2,370 

2,305 

2,142 

Occupancy  and  other  operating  expenses 

2,856 

2,644 

2,403 

Company  restaurant  expenses 

8,465 

7,773 

7,094 

General  and  administrative  expenses 

1,342 

1,293 

1,187 

Franchise  and  license  expenses 

74 

40 

35 

Closures  and  impairment  (income)  expenses 

43 

35 

59 

Refranchising  (gain)  loss 

(5) 

(11) 

(24) 

Other  (income)  expense 

(146) 

(71) 

(52) 

Total  costs  and  expenses,  net 

9,773 

9,059 

8,299 

Operating  Profit 

1,506 

1,357 

1,262 

Interest  expense,  net 

226 

166 

154 

Income  before  Income  Taxes 

1,280 

1,191 

1,108 

Income  tax  provision 

316 

282 

284 

Net  Income 

$ 

964 

$ 

909 

$ 

824 

Basic  Earnings  Per  Common  Share 

$ 

2.03 

$ 

1.74 

$ 

1.51 

Diluted  Earnings  Per  Common  Share 

$ 

1.96 

$ 

1.68 

$ 

1.46 

Dividends  Declared  Per  Common  Share 

$ 

0.72 

$ 

0.45 

$ 

0.43 

See  accompanying  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements. 


Consolidated  Statements  of  Cash  Flows 

YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries 

Fiscal  years  ended  December  27,  2008,  December  29, 2007  and  December  30,  2006 
(in  millions) 

2008 

2007 

2006 

Cash  Flows  -  Operating  Activities 

Net  income  S 

1  964 

$  909 

$  824 

Depreciation  and  amortization 

556 

542 

479 

Closures  and  impairment  expenses 

43 

35 

59 

Refranchising  (gain)  loss 

(5) 

(11) 

(24) 

Contributions  to  defined  benefit  pension  plans 

(66) 

(8) 

(43) 

Gain  on  sale  of  interest  in  Japan  unconsolidated  affiliate 

(100) 

— 

— 

Deferred  income  taxes 

1 

(41) 

(30) 

Equity  income  from  investments  in  unconsolidated  affiliates 

(41) 

(51) 

(51) 

Distributions  of  income  received  from  unconsolidated  affiliates 

41 

40 

32 

Excess  tax  benefit  from  share-based  compensation 

(44) 

(74) 

(65) 

Share-based  compensation  expense 

59 

61 

65 

Changes  in  accounts  and  notes  receivable 

(6) 

(4) 

24 

Changes  in  inventories 

(8) 

(31) 

(3) 

Changes  in  prepaid  expenses  and  other  current  assets 

4 

(6) 

(33) 

Changes  in  accounts  payable  and  other  current  liabilities 

18 

102 

(72) 

Changes  in  income  taxes  payable 

39 

70 

10 

Other  non-cash  charges  and  credits,  net 

66 

18 

85 

Net  Cash  Provided  by  Operating  Activities 

1,521 

1,551 

1,257 

Cash  Flows  -  Investing  Activities 

Capital  spending 

(935) 

(726) 

(572) 

Proceeds  from  refranchising  of  restaurants 

266 

117 

257 

Acquisition  of  remaining  interest  in  unconsolidated  affiliate,  net  of  cash  assumed  — 

— 

(178) 

Proceeds  from  the  sale  of  interest  in  Japan  unconsolidated  affiliate 

128 

Acquisition  of  restaurants  from  franchisees 

(35) 

(4) 

(7) 

Sales  of  property,  plant  and  equipment 

72 

56 

57 

Other,  net 

(9) 

13 

9 

Net  Cash  Used  in  Investing  Activities 

(641) 

(416) 

(434) 

Cash  Flows  -  Financing  Activities 

Proceeds  from  issuance  of  long-term  debt 

375 

1,195 

300 

Repayments  of  long-term  debt 

(268) 

(24) 

(211) 

Revolving  credit  facilities,  three  months  or  less,  net 

279 

(149) 

(23) 

Short-term  borrowings  by  original  maturity 

More  than  three  months  -  proceeds 

— 

1 

236 

More  than  three  months  -  payments 

— 

(184) 

(54) 

Three  months  or  less,  net 

(11) 

(8) 

4 

Repurchase  shares  of  Common  Stock 

(1,628) 

(1,410) 

(983) 

Excess  tax  benefit  from  share-based  compensation 

44 

74 

65 

Employee  stock  option  proceeds 

72 

112 

142 

Dividends  paid  on  Common  Stock 

(322) 

(273) 

(144) 

Other,  net 

— 

(12) 

(2) 

Net  Cash  Used  in  Financing  Activities 

(1,459) 

(678) 

(670) 

Effect  of  Exchange  Rate  on  Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents 

(11) 

13 

8 

Net  Increase  (Decrease)  in  Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents 

(590) 

470 

161 

Change  in  Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents  due  to  Consolidation  of 

an  entity  in  China 

17 

— 

— 

Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents  -  Beginning  of  Year 

789 

319 

158 

Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents  -  End  of  Year  5 

!  216 

$  789 

$  319 

See  accompanying  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements. 

57 


Consolidated  Balance  Sheets 
YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries 
December  27,  2008  and  December  29,  2007 
(in  millions) 


2008 

2007 

ASSETS 

Current  Assets 

Cash  and  cash  equivalents 

$ 

216 

$ 

789 

Accounts  and  notes  receivable,  less  allowance:  $23  in  2008  and  $21  in  2007 

229 

225 

Inventories 

143 

128 

Prepaid  expenses  and  other  current  assets 

172 

142 

Deferred  income  taxes 

81 

125 

Advertising  cooperative  assets,  restricted 

110 

72 

Total  Current  Assets 

951 

1,481 

Property,  plant  and  equipment,  net 

3,710 

3,849 

Goodwill 

605 

672 

Intangible  assets,  net 

335 

354 

Investments  in  unconsolidated  affiliates 

65 

153 

Other  assets 

561 

443 

Deferred  income  taxes 

300 

236 

Total  Assets 

$ 

6,527 

$ 

7,188 

LIABILITIES  AND  SHAREHOLDERS’  EQUITY  (DEFICIT) 

Current  Liabilities 

Accounts  payable  and  other  current  liabilities 

$ 

1,473 

$ 

1,650 

Income  taxes  payable 

114 

52 

Short-term  borrowings 

25 

288 

Advertising  cooperative  liabilities 

110 

72 

Total  Current  Liabilities 

1,722 

2,062 

Long-term  debt 

3,564 

2,924 

Other  liabilities  and  deferred  credits 

1.349 

1.063 

Total  Liabilities 

6,635 

6,049 

Shareholders’  Equity  (Deficit) 

Common  Stock,  no  par  value,  750  shares  authorized;  459  shares  and  499 

shares  issued  in  2008  and  2007,  respectively 

7 

— 

Retained  earnings 

303 

1,119 

Accumulated  other  comprehensive  income  (loss) 

(418) 

20 

Total  Shareholders’  Equity  (Deficit) 

(108) 

1,139 

Total  Liabilities  and  Shareholders’  Equity  (Deficit) 

$ 

6,527 

$ 

7,188 

See  accompanying  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements. 


Consolidated  Statements  of  Shareholders’  Equity  (Deficit)  and  Comprehensive  Income  (Loss) 

YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries 

Fiscal  years  ended  December  27,  2008,  December  29,  2007  and  December  30, 2006 

(in  millions,  except  per  share  data) _ 

Accumulated 


Issued  Comn 

non  Stock 

Retained 

Comprehensive 

Shares 

Amount 

Earnings 

Income(Loss) 

Total 

Balance  at  December  31,  2005 

556  5 

$  1,631 

$  (170) 

$  1,461 

Adjustment  to  initially  apply  SAB  No.  108 

100 

100 

Net  income 

Foreign  currency  translation  adjustment  arising  during  the  period 

824 

824 

59 

59 

Minimum  pension  liability  adjustment  (net  of  tax  impact  of  $1 1 

17 

17 

5 

Net  unrealized  gain  on  derivative  instruments  (net  of  tax  impact  of 

5 

Comprehensive  Income 

Adjustment  to  initially  apply  SFAS  No.  158  (net  of  tax  impact  of 

905 

$37  million) 

(67) 

(67) 

Dividends  declared  on  Common  Stock  ($0.43  per  common  share) 

(234) 

(234) 

Repurchase  of  shares  of  Common  Stock 

Employee  stock  option  and  SARs  exercises  (includes  tax  impact  of 

(40) 

(287) 

(713) 

(1,000) 

$68  million) 

13 

210 

210 

Compensation-related  events  (includes  tax  impact  of  $3  million) 

77 

77 

Balance  at  December  30,  2006 

530  5 

$  1,608 

$  (156) 

$  1.452 

Net  income 

909 

909 

Foreign  currency  translation  adjustment  included  in  net  income 

Pension  and  post-retirement  benefit  plans  (net  of  tax  impact  of  $55 

93 

93 

million) 

96 

96 

Net  unrealized  loss  on  derivative  instruments  (net  of  tax  impact  of 

$8  million) 

(14) 

(14) 

Comprehensive  Income 

1,085 

Adjustment  to  initially  apply  FIN  48 

(13) 

(13) 

Dividends  declared  on  Common  Stock  ($0.45  per  common  share) 

(231) 

(231) 

Repurchase  of  shares  of  Common  Stock 

Employee  stock  option  and  SARs  exercises  (includes  tax  impact  of 

(42) 

(252) 

(U54) 

(1,406) 

10 

181 

181 

Compensation-related  events  (includes  tax  impact  of  $5  million) 

1 

71 

71 

Balance  at  December  29,  2007 

499  5 

$  1,119 

$  20 

$  1.139 

Net  income 

964 

964 

Foreign  currency  translation  adjustment  arising  during  the  period 

(198) 

(198) 

Foreign  currency  translation  adjustment  included  in  net  income 

Pension  and  post-retirement  benefit  plans  (net  of  tax  impact  of  $1 14 

(25) 

(25) 

million) 

Net  unrealized  loss  on  derivative  instruments  (net  of  tax  impact  of 

(208) 

(208) 

$4  million) 

(7) 

(7) 

Comprehensive  Income 

526 

Adjustment  to  change  measurement  date  pursuant  to  SFAS  158  (net 

of  tax  impact  of  $4  million) 

(7) 

(7) 

Dividends  declared  on  Common  Stock  ($0.72  per  common  share) 

(339) 

(339) 

Repurchase  of  shares  of  Common  Stock 

Employee  stock  option  and  SARs  exercises  (includes  tax  impact  of 

(47) 

(181) 

(1,434) 

(1,615) 

6 

112 

112 

Compensation-related  events  (includes  tax  impact  of  $6  million) 

1 

76 

76 

Balance  at  December  27,  2008 

459  $ 

7 

$  303 

$  (418) 

$  (108) 

See  accompanying  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements. 


59 


Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements 

(Tabular  amounts  in  millions,  except  share  data) 

Note  1  -  Description  of  Business 

YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  (collectively  referred  to  as  “YUM”  or  the  “Company”)  comprises  the  worldwide 
operations  of  KFC,  Pizza  Hut,  Taco  Bell,  Long  John  Silver’s  (“LJS”)  and  A&W  All-American  Food  Restaurants 
(“A&W”)  (collectively  the  “Concepts”).  YUM  is  the  world’s  largest  quick  service  restaurant  company  based  on  the 
number  of  system  units,  with  more  than  36,000  units  of  which  approximately  45%  are  located  outside  the  U.S.  in  more 
than  110  countries  and  territories.  YUM  was  created  as  an  independent,  publicly-owned  company  on  October  6,  1997 
(the  “Spin-off  Date”)  via  a  tax-free  distribution  by  our  former  parent,  PepsiCo,  Inc.,  of  our  Common  Stock  (the  “Spin¬ 
off’)  to  its  shareholders.  References  to  YUM  throughout  these  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  are  made  using  the  first 
person  notations  of  “we,”  “us”  or  “our.” 

Through  our  widely-recognized  Concepts,  we  develop,  operate,  franchise  and  license  a  system  of  both  traditional  and  non- 
traditional  quick  service  restaurants.  Each  Concept  has  proprietary  menu  items  and  emphasizes  the  preparation  of  food 
with  high  quality  ingredients  as  well  as  unique  recipes  and  special  seasonings  to  provide  appealing,  tasty  and  attractive 
food  at  competitive  prices.  Our  traditional  restaurants  feature  dine-in,  carryout  and,  in  some  instances,  drive-thru  or 
delivery  service.  Non-traditional  units,  which  are  principally  licensed  outlets,  include  express  units  and  kiosks  which 
have  a  more  limited  menu  and  operate  in  non-traditional  locations  like  malls,  airports,  gasoline  service  stations, 
convenience  stores,  stadiums,  amusement  parks  and  colleges,  where  a  full-scale  traditional  outlet  would  not  be  practical  or 
efficient.  We  also  operate  multibrand  units,  where  two  or  more  of  our  Concepts  are  operated  in  a  single  unit.  In  addition, 
we  continue  to  pursue  the  multibrand  combination  of  Pizza  Hut  and  WingStreet,  a  flavored  chicken  wings  concept  we 
have  developed. 

YUM  consists  of  six  operating  segments:  KFC-U.S.,  Pizza  Hut-U.S.,  Taco  Bell-U.S.,  LJS/A&W-U.S.,  YUM  Restaurants 
International  (“YRI”  or  “International  Division”)  and  YUM  Restaurants  China  (“China  Division”).  For  financial 
reporting  purposes,  management  considers  the  four  U.S.  operating  segments  to  be  similar  and,  therefore,  has  aggregated 
them  into  a  single  reportable  operating  segment.  The  China  Division  includes  mainland  China  (“China”),  Thailand  and 
KFC  Taiwan,  and  the  International  Division  includes  the  remainder  of  our  international  operations. 

Note  2  -  Summary  of  Significant  Accounting  Policies 

Our  preparation  of  the  accompanying  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in  conformity  with  accounting  principles 
generally  accepted  in  the  United  States  of  America  requires  us  to  make  estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect  reported 
amounts  of  assets  and  liabilities,  disclosure  of  contingent  assets  and  liabilities  at  the  date  of  the  financial  statements,  and 
the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during  the  reporting  period.  Actual  results  could  differ  from  these 
estimates. 

Principles  of  Consolidation  and  Basis  of  Preparation.  Intercompany  accounts  and  transactions  have  been  eliminated. 
Certain  investments  in  businesses  that  operate  our  Concepts  are  accounted  for  by  the  equity  method.  Our  lack  of  majority 
voting  rights  precludes  us  from  controlling  these  affiliates,  and  thus  we  do  not  consolidate  these  affiliates.  Our  share  of 
the  net  income  or  loss  of  those  unconsolidated  affiliates  is  included  in  other  (income)  expense.  On  January  1,  2008  we 
began  consolidating  the  entity  that  operates  the  KFCs  in  Beijing,  China  that  was  previously  accounted  for  using  the  equity 
method.  See  Note  5  for  the  impact  on  our  Consolidated  Financial  Statements. 


We  participate  in  various  advertising  cooperatives  with  our  franchisees  and  licensees  established  to  collect  and  administer 
funds  contributed  for  use  in  advertising  and  promotional  programs  designed  to  increase  sales  and  enhance  the  reputation 
of  the  Company  and  its  franchise  owners.  Contributions  to  the  advertising  cooperatives  are  required  for  both  company 
operated  and  franchise  restaurants  and  are  generally  based  on  a  percent  of  restaurant  sales.  In  certain  of  these 
cooperatives  we  possess  majority  voting  rights,  and  thus  control  and  consolidate  the  cooperatives.  We  report  all  assets 
and  liabilities  of  these  advertising  cooperatives  that  we  consolidate  as  advertising  cooperative  assets,  restricted  and 
advertising  cooperative  liabilities  in  the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet.  The  advertising  cooperatives  assets,  consisting 
primarily  of  cash  received  from  the  Company  and  franchisees  and  accounts  receivable  from  franchisees,  can  only  be  used 
for  selected  purposes  and  are  considered  restricted.  The  advertising  cooperative  liabilities  represent  the  corresponding 
obligation  arising  from  the  receipt  of  the  contributions  to  purchase  advertising  and  promotional  programs.  As  the 
contributions  to  these  cooperatives  are  designated  and  segregated  for  advertising,  we  act  as  an  agent  for  the  franchisees 
and  licensees  with  regard  to  these  contributions.  Thus,  in  accordance  with  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards 
(“SFAS”)  No.  45,  “Accounting  for  Franchise  Fee  Revenue,”  we  do  not  reflect  franchisee  and  licensee  contributions  to 
these  cooperatives  in  our  Consolidated  Statements  of  Income  or  Consolidated  Statements  of  Cash  Flows. 

Fiscal  Year.  Our  fiscal  year  ends  on  the  last  Saturday  in  December  and,  as  a  result,  a  53rd  week  is  added  every  five  or 
six  years.  Fiscal  year  2005  included  53  weeks.  The  Company’s  next  fiscal  year  with  53  weeks  will  be  2011.  The  first 
three  quarters  of  each  fiscal  year  consist  of  12  weeks  and  the  fourth  quarter  consists  of  16  weeks  in  fiscal  years  with  52 
weeks  and  17  weeks  in  fiscal  years  with  53  weeks.  Our  subsidiaries  operate  on  similar  fiscal  calendars  with  period  or 
month  end  dates  suited  to  their  businesses.  Our  U.S.  and  China  subsidiaries’  period  end  dates  are  within  one  week  of 
YUM’s  period  end  date.  All  of  our  international  businesses  except  China  close  one  period  or  one  month  earlier  to 
facilitate  consolidated  reporting. 

Reclassifications.  We  have  reclassified  certain  items  in  the  accompanying  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  Notes 
thereto  for  prior  periods  to  be  comparable  with  the  classification  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  27,  2008.  These 
reclassifications  had  no  effect  on  previously  reported  Net  income. 

Specifically,  we  reclassified  $21  million  from  Other  assets  to  Intangible  assets  in  our  December  29,  2007  Consolidated 
Balance  Sheet  representing  our  transferable  right  to  tenancy  under  commercial  property  leases  in  certain  International 
locations.  Additionally,  we  reclassified  $54  million  from  long-term  Deferred  income  tax  assets  to  Other  liabilities  and 
deferred  credits  to  present  deferred  tax  assets  associated  with  foreign  tax  credit  carryforwards  and  unrecognized  tax 
benefits  on  a  net  basis  where  appropriate. 

We  have  reduced  Capital  spending  on  our  Consolidated  Statements  of  Cash  Flows  by  $16  million  and  $42  million  in  2007 
and  2006,  respectively,  for  the  net  impact  of  capital  spending  that  had  been  accrued  for  but  not  yet  paid.  The  offsetting 
impact  was  to  Changes  in  Accounts  payable  and  other  current  liabilities. 

Franchise  and  License  Operations.  We  execute  franchise  or  license  agreements  for  each  unit  which  set  out  the  terms  of 
our  arrangement  with  the  franchisee  or  licensee.  Our  franchise  and  license  agreements  typically  require  the  franchisee  or 
licensee  to  pay  an  initial,  non-refundable  fee  and  continuing  fees  based  upon  a  percentage  of  sales.  Subject  to  our 
approval  and  their  payment  of  a  renewal  fee,  a  franchisee  may  generally  renew  the  franchise  agreement  upon  its 
expiration. 

The  internal  costs  we  incur  to  provide  support  services  to  our  franchisees  and  licensees  are  charged  to  general  and 
administrative  (“G&A”)  expenses  as  incurred.  Certain  direct  costs  of  our  franchise  and  license  operations  are  charged  to 
franchise  and  license  expenses.  These  costs  include  provisions  for  estimated  uncollectible  fees,  franchise  and  license 
marketing  funding,  amortization  expense  for  franchise  related  intangible  assets  and  certain  other  direct  incremental 
franchise  and  license  support  costs. 


61 


We  monitor  the  financial  condition  of  our  franchisees  and  licensees  and  record  provisions  for  estimated  losses  on 
receivables  when  we  believe  that  our  franchisees  or  licensees  are  unable  to  make  their  required  payments.  While  we  use 
the  best  information  available  in  making  our  determination,  the  ultimate  recovery  of  recorded  receivables  is  also 
dependent  upon  future  economic  events  and  other  conditions  that  may  be  beyond  our  control.  Net  provisions  for 
uncollectible  franchise  and  license  receivables  of  $8  million,  $2  million  and  $2  million  were  included  in  Franchise  and 
license  expenses  in  2008,  2007  and  2006,  respectively. 

Revenue  Recognition.  Our  revenues  consist  of  sales  by  Company  operated  restaurants  and  fees  from  our  franchisees  and 
licensees.  Revenues  from  Company  operated  restaurants  are  recognized  when  payment  is  tendered  at  the  time  of  sale. 
The  Company  presents  sales  net  of  sales  tax  and  other  sales  related  taxes.  We  recognize  initial  fees  received  from  a 
franchisee  or  licensee  as  revenue  when  we  have  performed  substantially  all  initial  services  required  by  the  franchise  or 
license  agreement,  which  is  generally  upon  the  opening  of  a  store.  We  recognize  continuing  fees  based  upon  a  percentage 
of  franchisee  and  licensee  sales  as  earned.  We  recognize  renewal  fees  when  a  renewal  agreement  with  a  franchisee  or 
licensee  becomes  effective.  We  include  initial  fees  collected  upon  the  sale  of  a  restaurant  to  a  franchisee  in  Refranchising 
(gain)  loss. 

Direct  Marketing  Costs.  We  charge  direct  marketing  costs  to  expense  ratably  in  relation  to  revenues  over  the  year  in 
which  incurred  and,  in  the  case  of  advertising  production  costs,  in  the  year  the  advertisement  is  first  shown.  Deferred 
direct  marketing  costs,  which  are  classified  as  prepaid  expenses,  consist  of  media  and  related  advertising  production  costs 
which  will  generally  be  used  for  the  first  time  in  the  next  fiscal  year  and  have  historically  not  been  significant.  To  the 
extent  we  participate  in  advertising  cooperatives,  we  expense  our  contributions  as  incurred.  Our  advertising  expenses 
were  $584  million,  $556  million  and  $521  million  in  2008,  2007  and  2006,  respectively.  We  report  substantially  all  of 
our  direct  marketing  costs  in  occupancy  and  other  operating  expenses. 

Research  and  Development  Expenses.  Research  and  development  expenses,  which  we  expense  as  incurred,  are  reported 
in  G&A  expenses.  Research  and  development  expenses  were  $34  million,  $39  million  and  $33  million  in  2008,  2007  and 
2006,  respectively. 

Share-Based  Employee  Compensation.  We  account  for  share-based  employee  compensation  in  accordance  with  SFAS 
No.  123  (Revised  2004),  “Share-Based  Payment”  (“SFAS  123R”).  SFAS  123R  requires  all  share-based  payments  to 
employees,  including  grants  of  employee  stock  options  and  stock  appreciation  rights  (“SARs”),  to  be  recognized  in  the 
financial  statements  as  compensation  cost  over  the  service  period  based  on  their  fair  value  on  the  date  of  grant. 
Compensation  cost  is  recognized  over  the  service  period  on  a  straight-line  basis  for  the  fair  value  of  awards  that  actually 
vest. 

Impairment  or  Disposal  of  Long-Lived  Assets.  In  accordance  with  SFAS  No.  144,  “Accounting  for  the  Impairment  or 
Disposal  of  Long-Lived  Assets”  (“SFAS  144”),  we  review  our  long-lived  assets  related  to  each  restaurant  that  we  are 
currently  operating  and  have  not  offered  to  refranchise,  including  any  allocated  intangible  assets  subject  to  amortization, 
semi-annually  for  impairment,  or  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances  indicate  that  the  carrying  amount  of  a 
restaurant  may  not  be  recoverable.  We  evaluate  restaurants  using  a  “two-year  history  of  operating  losses”  as  our  primary 
indicator  of  potential  impairment.  Based  on  the  best  information  available,  we  write  down  an  impaired  restaurant  to  its 
estimated  fair  market  value,  which  becomes  its  new  cost  basis.  Fair  value  is  determined  by  discounting  the  forecasted 
after  tax  cash  flows,  including  terminal  value,  of  the  restaurant.  The  discount  rate  is  our  estimate  of  the  required  rate  of 
return  that  a  third-party  buyer  would  expect  to  receive  when  purchasing  a  restaurant  or  groups  of  restaurants  and  its 
related  long-lived  assets.  The  discount  rate  incorporates  observed  rates  of  returns  for  historical  refranchising  market 
transactions  and  we  believe  it  is  commensurate  with  the  risks  and  uncertainty  inherent  in  the  forecasted  cash  flows.  In 
addition,  when  we  decide  to  close  a  restaurant  it  is  reviewed  for  impairment  and  depreciable  lives  are  adjusted  based  on 
the  expected  disposal  date.  The  impairment  evaluation  is  based  on  the  estimated  cash  flows  from  continuing  use  through 
the  expected  disposal  date  plus  the  expected  terminal  value. 


We  account  for  exit  or  disposal  activities,  including  store  closures,  in  accordance  with  SFAS  No.  146,  “Accounting  for 
Costs  Associated  with  Exit  or  Disposal  Activities”  (“SFAS  146”).  Store  closure  (income)  costs  include  costs  of  disposing 
of  the  assets  as  well  as  other  facility-related  expenses  from  previously  closed  stores.  These  store  closure  costs  are 
generally  expensed  as  incurred.  Additionally,  at  the  date  we  cease  using  a  property  under  an  operating  lease,  we  record  a 
liability  for  the  net  present  value  of  any  remaining  lease  obligations,  net  of  estimated  sublease  income,  if  any.  Any 
subsequent  adjustments  to  that  liability  as  a  result  of  lease  termination  or  changes  in  estimates  of  sublease  income  are 
recorded  in  store  closure  costs  as  well.  To  the  extent  we  sell  assets,  primarily  land,  associated  with  a  closed  store,  any 
gain  or  loss  upon  that  sale  is  also  recorded  in  store  closure  (income)  costs. 

Refranchising  (gain)  loss  includes  the  gains  or  losses  from  the  sales  of  our  restaurants  to  new  and  existing  franchisees  and 
the  related  initial  franchise  fees,  reduced  by  transaction  costs.  In  executing  our  refranchising  initiatives,  we  most  often 
offer  groups  of  restaurants.  We  classify  restaurants  as  held  for  sale  and  suspend  depreciation  and  amortization  when  (a) 
we  make  a  decision  to  refranchise;  (b)  the  stores  can  be  immediately  removed  from  operations;  (c)  we  have  begun  an 
active  program  to  locate  a  buyer;  (d)  significant  changes  to  the  plan  of  sale  are  not  likely;  and  (e)  the  sale  is  probable 
within  one  year.  We  recognize  estimated  losses  on  refranchisings  when  the  restaurants  are  classified  as  held  for  sale. 
When  we  have  offered  to  refranchise  stores  or  groups  of  stores  for  a  price  less  than  their  carrying  value,  but  do  not  believe 
the  store(s)  have  met  the  criteria  to  be  classified  as  held  for  sale,  we  recognize  impairment  at  the  offer  date  for  any  excess 
of  carrying  value  over  the  expected  sales  proceeds  plus  holding  period  cash  flows,  if  any.  Such  impairment  is  classified 
as  refranchising  loss.  We  recognize  gains  on  restaurant  refranchisings  when  the  sale  transaction  closes,  the  franchisee  has 
a  minimum  amount  of  the  purchase  price  in  at-risk  equity,  and  we  are  satisfied  that  the  franchisee  can  meet  its  financial 
obligations.  If  the  criteria  for  gain  recognition  are  not  met,  we  defer  the  gain  to  the  extent  we  have  a  remaining  financial 
exposure  in  connection  with  the  sales  transaction.  Deferred  gains  are  recognized  when  the  gain  recognition  criteria  are 
met  or  as  our  financial  exposure  is  reduced.  When  we  make  a  decision  to  retain  a  store,  or  group  of  stores,  previously 
held  for  sale,  we  revalue  the  store  at  the  lower  of  its  (a)  net  book  value  at  our  original  sale  decision  date  less  normal 
depreciation  and  amortization  that  would  have  been  recorded  during  the  period  held  for  sale  or  (b)  its  current  fair  market 
value.  This  value  becomes  the  store’s  new  cost  basis.  We  record  any  resulting  difference  between  the  store’s  carrying 
amount  and  its  new  cost  basis  to  Refranchising  (gain)  loss. 

Considerable  management  judgment  is  necessary  to  estimate  future  cash  flows,  including  cash  flows  from  continuing  use, 
terminal  value,  sublease  income  and  refranchising  proceeds.  Accordingly,  actual  results  could  vary  significantly  from  our 
estimates. 

Impairment  of  Investments  in  Unconsolidated  Affiliates.  We  record  impairment  charges  related  to  an  investment  in  an 
unconsolidated  affiliate  whenever  events  or  circumstances  indicate  that  a  decrease  in  the  fair  value  of  an  investment  has 
occurred  which  is  other  than  temporary.  In  addition,  we  evaluate  our  investments  in  unconsolidated  affiliates  for 
impairment  when  they  have  experienced  two  consecutive  years  of  operating  losses.  We  recorded  no  impairment 
associated  with  our  investments  in  unconsolidated  affiliates  during  the  years  ended  December  27,  2008,  December  29, 
2007  and  December  30,  2006. 

Guarantees.  We  account  for  certain  guarantees  in  accordance  with  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  (“FASB”) 
Interpretation  (“FIN”)  No.  45,  “Guarantor’s  Accounting  and  Disclosure  Requirements  for  Guarantees,  Including  Indirect 
Guarantees  of  Indebtedness  to  Others,  an  interpretation  of  FASB  Statements  No.  5,  57  and  107  and  a  rescission  of  FASB 
Interpretation  No.  34”  (“FIN  45”).  FIN  45  clarifies  that  a  guarantor  is  required  to  recognize,  at  inception  of  a  guarantee,  a 
liability  for  the  fair  value  of  certain  obligations  undertaken. 

We  have  also  issued  guarantees  as  a  result  of  assigning  our  interest  in  obligations  under  operating  leases  as  a  condition  to 
the  refranchising  of  certain  Company  restaurants.  Such  guarantees  are  subject  to  the  requirements  of  SFAS  No.  145, 
“Rescission  of  FASB  Statements  No.  4,  44  and  64,  Amendment  of  FASB  Statement  No.  13,  and  Technical  Corrections” 
(“SFAS  145”).  We  recognize  a  liability  for  the  fair  value  of  such  lease  guarantees  under  SFAS  145  upon  refranchising 
and  upon  any  subsequent  renewals  of  such  leases  when  we  remain  contingently  liable.  The  related  expense  in  both 
instances  is  included  in  Refranchising  (gain)  loss. 


63 


Income  Taxes.  We  account  for  income  taxes  in  accordance  with  SFAS  No.  109,  “Accounting  for  Income  Taxes”  (“SFAS 
109”).  Under  SFAS  109,  we  record  deferred  tax  assets  and  liabilities  for  the  future  tax  consequences  attributable  to 
temporary  differences  between  the  financial  statement  carrying  amounts  of  existing  assets  and  liabilities  and  their 
respective  tax  bases  and  operating  loss  and  tax  credit  carryforwards.  Deferred  tax  assets  and  liabilities  are  measured  using 
enacted  tax  rates  expected  to  apply  to  taxable  income  in  the  years  in  which  those  differences  are  expected  to  be  recovered 
or  settled.  The  effect  on  deferred  tax  assets  and  liabilities  of  a  change  in  tax  rates  is  recognized  in  income  in  the  period 
that  includes  the  enactment  date.  In  addition,  a  valuation  allowance  is  recorded  to  reduce  the  carrying  amount  of  deferred 
tax  assets  if  it  is  more  likely  than  not  all  or  a  portion  of  the  asset  will  not  be  realized. 

Effective  December  31,  2006,  we  adopted  FASB  Interpretation  No.  48,  “Accounting  for  Uncertainty  in  Income  Taxes”,  an 
interpretation  of  SFAS  109  (“FIN  48”).  FIN  48  requires  that  a  position  taken  or  expected  to  be  taken  in  a  tax  return  be 
recognized  in  the  financial  statements  when  it  is  more  likely  than  not  (i.e.  a  likelihood  of  more  than  fifty  percent)  that  the 
position  would  be  sustained  upon  examination  by  tax  authorities.  A  recognized  tax  position  is  then  measured  at  the 
largest  amount  of  benefit  that  is  greater  than  fifty  percent  likely  of  being  realized  upon  settlement.  FIN  48  also  requires 
that  changes  in  judgment  that  result  in  subsequent  recognition,  derecognition  or  change  in  a  measurement  of  a  tax  position 
taken  in  a  prior  annual  period  (including  any  related  interest  and  penalties)  be  recognized  as  a  discrete  item  in  the  interim 
period  in  which  the  change  occurs.  Prior  to  adopting  FIN  48,  we  provided  reserves  for  potential  exposures  when  we 
considered  it  probable  that  a  taxing  authority  may  take  a  sustainable  position  on  a  matter  contrary  to  our  position  and 
recorded  any  changes  in  judgment  thereon  as  a  component  of  our  annual  effective  rate. 

The  Company  recognizes  interest  and  penalties  accrued  related  to  unrecognized  tax  benefits  as  components  of  its  income 
tax  provision. 

See  Note  19  for  a  further  discussion  of  our  income  taxes. 

Fair  Value  Measurements.  In  September  2006,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  (“FASB”)  issued  SFAS  No. 
157,  “Fair  Value  Measurements”  (“SFAS  157”).  SFAS  157  defines  fair  value,  establishes  a  framework  for  measuring  fan- 
value  and  enhances  disclosures  about  fair  value  measurements  required  under  other  accounting  pronouncements,  but  does 
not  change  existing  guidance  as  to  whether  or  not  an  instrument  is  carried  at  fair  value.  For  those  financial  assets  and 
liabilities  we  record  or  disclose  at  fair  value,  we  adopted  SFAS  157  at  the  beginning  of  2008.  Fair  value  is  determined 
based  on  the  present  value  of  expected  future  cash  flows  considering  the  risks  involved  and  using  discount  rates 
appropriate  for  the  duration,  and  considers  counterparty  performance  risk. 

Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents.  Cash  equivalents  represent  funds  we  have  temporarily  invested  (with  original  maturities 
not  exceeding  three  months)  as  part  of  managing  our  day-to-day  operating  cash  receipts  and  disbursements,  including 
short-term,  highly  liquid  debt  securities. 

Inventories.  We  value  our  inventories  at  the  lower  of  cost  (computed  on  the  first-in,  first-out  method)  or  market. 

Property,  Plant  and  Equipment.  We  state  property,  plant  and  equipment  at  cost  less  accumulated  depreciation  and 
amortization.  We  calculate  depreciation  and  amortization  on  a  straight-line  basis  over  the  estimated  useful  lives  of  the 
assets  as  follows:  5  to  25  years  for  buildings  and  improvements,  3  to  20  years  for  machinery  and  equipment  and  3  to  7 
years  for  capitalized  software  costs.  As  discussed  above,  we  suspend  depreciation  and  amortization  on  assets  related  to 
restaurants  that  are  held  for  sale. 

Leases  and  Leasehold  Improvements.  We  account  for  our  leases  in  accordance  with  SFAS  No.  13,  “Accounting  for 
Leases”  (“SFAS  13”)  and  other  related  authoritative  guidance.  When  determining  the  lease  term,  we  often  include  option 
periods  for  which  failure  to  renew  the  lease  imposes  a  penalty  on  the  Company  in  such  an  amount  that  a  renewal  appears, 
at  the  inception  of  the  lease,  to  be  reasonably  assured.  The  primary  penalty  to  which  we  are  subject  is  the  economic 
detriment  associated  with  the  existence  of  leasehold  improvements  which  might  be  impaired  if  we  choose  not  to  continue 
the  use  of  the  leased  property.  Leasehold  improvements,  which  are  a  component  of  buildings  and  improvements 
described  above,  are  amortized  over  the  shorter  of  their  estimated  useful  lives  or  the  lease  term. 


We  record  rent  expense  for  leases  that  contain  scheduled  rent  increases  on  a  straight-line  basis  over  the  lease  term, 
including  any  option  periods  considered  in  the  determination  of  that  lease  term.  Contingent  rentals  are  generally  based  on 
sales  levels  in  excess  of  stipulated  amounts,  and  thus  are  not  considered  minimum  lease  payments  and  are  included  in  rent 
expense  as  they  accrue.  We  generally  do  not  receive  leasehold  improvement  incentives  upon  opening  a  store  that  is 
subject  to  a  lease. 

In  accordance  with  FASB  Staff  Position  (“FSP”)  No.  13-1,  “Accounting  for  Rental  Costs  Incurred  during  a  Construction 
Period”  (“FSP  13-1”),  we  expense  rent  associated  with  leased  land  or  buildings  while  a  restaurant  is  being  constructed 
whether  rent  is  paid  or  we  are  subject  to  a  rent  holiday. 

Internal  Development  Costs  and  Abandoned  Site  Costs.  We  capitalize  direct  costs  associated  with  the  site  acquisition 
and  construction  of  a  Company  unit  on  that  site,  including  direct  internal  payroll  and  payroll-related  costs.  Only  those 
site-specific  costs  incurred  subsequent  to  the  time  that  the  site  acquisition  is  considered  probable  are  capitalized.  If  we 
subsequently  make  a  determination  that  a  site  for  which  internal  development  costs  have  been  capitalized  will  not  be 
acquired  or  developed,  any  previously  capitalized  internal  development  costs  are  expensed  and  included  in  G&A 
expenses. 

Goodwill  and  Intangible  Assets.  The  Company  accounts  for  acquisitions  of  restaurants  from  franchisees  and  other 
acquisitions  of  businesses  that  may  occur  from  time  to  time  in  accordance  with  SFAS  No.  141,  “Business  Combinations” 
(“SFAS  141”).  Goodwill  in  such  acquisitions  represents  the  excess  of  the  cost  of  a  business  acquired  over  the  net  of  the 
amounts  assigned  to  assets  acquired,  including  identifiable  intangible  assets  and  liabilities  assumed.  SFAS  141  specifies 
criteria  to  be  used  in  determining  whether  intangible  assets  acquired  in  a  business  combination  must  be  recognized  and 
reported  separately  from  goodwill.  We  base  amounts  assigned  to  goodwill  and  other  identifiable  intangible  assets  on 
independent  appraisals  or  internal  estimates.  If  a  Company  restaurant  is  sold  within  two  years  of  acquisition,  the  goodwill 
associated  with  the  acquisition  is  written  off  in  its  entirety.  If  the  restaurant  is  refranchised  beyond  two  years,  the  amount 
of  goodwill  written  off  is  based  on  the  relative  fair  value  of  the  restaurant  to  the  fair  value  of  the  reporting  unit,  as 
described  below. 

The  Company  accounts  for  recorded  goodwill  and  other  intangible  assets  in  accordance  with  SFAS  No.  142,  “Goodwill 
and  Other  Intangible  Assets”  (“SFAS  142”).  In  accordance  with  SFAS  142,  we  do  not  amortize  goodwill  and  indefinite- 
lived  intangible  assets.  We  evaluate  the  remaining  useful  life  of  an  intangible  asset  that  is  not  being  amortized  each 
reporting  period  to  determine  whether  events  and  circumstances  continue  to  support  an  indefinite  useful  life.  If  an 
intangible  asset  that  is  not  being  amortized  is  subsequently  determined  to  have  a  finite  useful  life,  we  amortize  the 
intangible  asset  prospectively  over  its  estimated  remaining  useful  life.  Amortizable  intangible  assets  are  amortized  on  a 
straight-line  basis. 

In  accordance  with  the  requirements  of  SFAS  142,  goodwill  has  been  assigned  to  reporting  units  for  purposes  of 
impairment  testing.  Our  reporting  units  are  our  operating  segments  in  the  U.S.  (see  Note  20)  and  our  business 
management  units  internationally  (typically  individual  countries).  We  evaluate  goodwill  and  indefinite  lived  assets  for 
impairment  on  an  annual  basis  or  more  often  if  an  event  occurs  or  circumstances  change  that  indicate  impairments  might 
exist.  Goodwill  impairment  tests  consist  of  a  comparison  of  each  reporting  unit’s  fair  value  with  its  carrying  value.  Fair 
value  is  the  price  a  willing  buyer  would  pay  for  a  reporting  unit,  and  is  generally  estimated  using  either  discounted 
expected  future  cash  flows  from  operations  or  the  present  value  of  the  estimated  future  franchise  royalty  stream  plus  any 
estimated  sales  proceeds  from  refranchising.  Any  estimated  sales  proceeds  are  based  on  relevant  historical  sales 
multiples.  The  discount  rate  is  our  estimate  of  the  required  rate  of  return  that  a  third-party  buyer  would  expect  to  receive 
when  purchasing  a  business  from  us  that  constitutes  a  reporting  unit.  We  believe  the  discount  rate  is  commensurate  with 
the  risks  and  uncertainty  inherent  in  the  forecasted  cash  flows.  If  the  carrying  value  of  a  reporting  unit  exceeds  its  fan- 
value,  goodwill  is  written  down  to  its  implied  fair  value.  We  have  selected  the  beginning  of  our  fourth  quarter  as  the  date 
on  which  to  perform  our  ongoing  annual  impairment  test  for  goodwill.  For  2008,  2007  and  2006,  there  was  no 
impairment  of  goodwill  identified  during  our  annual  impairment  testing. 


65 


For  indefinite-lived  intangible  assets,  our  impairment  test  consists  of  a  comparison  of  the  fair  value  of  an  intangible  asset 
with  its  carrying  amount.  Fair  value  is  an  estimate  of  the  price  a  willing  buyer  would  pay  for  the  intangible  asset  and  is 
generally  estimated  by  discounting  the  expected  future  cash  flows  associated  with  the  intangible  asset.  We  also  perform 
our  annual  test  for  impairment  of  our  indefinite-lived  intangible  assets  at  the  beginning  of  our  fourth  quarter.  No 
impairment  of  indefinite-lived  intangible  assets  was  recorded  in  2008,  2007  and  2006. 

Our  definite-lived  intangible  assets  that  are  not  allocated  to  an  individual  restaurant  are  evaluated  for  impairment 
whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances  indicate  that  the  carrying  amount  of  the  intangible  asset  may  not  be 
recoverable.  An  intangible  asset  that  is  deemed  impaired  is  written  down  to  its  estimated  fair  value,  which  is  based  on 
discounted  cash  flows.  For  purposes  of  our  impairment  analysis,  we  update  the  cash  flows  that  were  initially  used  to 
value  the  definite-lived  intangible  asset  to  reflect  our  current  estimates  and  assumptions  over  the  asset’s  future  remaining 
life. 

Derivative  Financial  Instruments.  Historically,  our  use  of  derivative  instruments  has  primarily  been  to  hedge  interest 
rates  and  foreign  currency  denominated  assets  and  liabilities.  These  derivative  contracts  are  entered  into  with  financial 
institutions.  We  do  not  use  derivative  instruments  for  trading  purposes  and  we  have  procedures  in  place  to  monitor  and 
control  their  use. 

We  account  for  these  derivative  financial  instruments  in  accordance  with  SFAS  No.  133,  “Accounting  for  Derivative 
Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities”  (“SFAS  133”)  as  amended  by  SFAS  No.  149,  “Amendment  of  Statement  133  on 
Derivative  Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities”  (“SFAS  149”).  SFAS  133  requires  that  all  derivative  instruments  be 
recorded  on  the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet  at  fair  value.  For  derivative  instruments  that  are  designated  and  qualify  as  a 
fair  value  hedge,  the  gain  or  loss  on  the  derivative  instrument  as  well  as  the  offsetting  gain  or  loss  on  the  hedged  item 
attributable  to  the  hedged  risk  are  recognized  in  the  results  of  operations.  For  derivative  instruments  that  are  designated 
and  qualify  as  a  cash  flow  hedge,  the  effective  portion  of  the  gain  or  loss  on  the  derivative  instrument  is  reported  as  a 
component  of  other  comprehensive  income  (loss)  and  reclassified  into  earnings  in  the  same  period  or  periods  during 
which  the  hedged  transaction  affects  earnings.  For  derivative  instruments  that  are  designated  and  qualify  as  a  net 
investment  hedge,  the  effective  portion  of  the  gain  or  loss  on  the  derivative  instrument  is  reported  in  the  foreign  currency 
translation  component  of  other  comprehensive  income  (loss).  Any  ineffective  portion  of  the  gain  or  loss  on  the  derivative 
instrument  for  a  cash  flow  hedge  or  net  investment  hedge  is  recorded  in  the  results  of  operations  immediately.  For 
derivative  instruments  not  designated  as  hedging  instruments,  the  gain  or  loss  is  recognized  in  the  results  of  operations 
immediately.  See  Note  14  for  a  discussion  of  our  use  of  derivative  instruments,  management  of  credit  risk  inherent  in 
derivative  instruments  and  fair  value  information. 

Common  Stock  Share  Repurchases.  From  time  to  time,  we  repurchase  shares  of  our  Common  Stock  under  share 
repurchase  programs  authorized  by  our  Board  of  Directors.  Shares  repurchased  constitute  authorized,  but  unissued  shares 
under  the  North  Carolina  laws  under  which  we  are  incorporated.  Additionally,  our  Common  Stock  has  no  par  or  stated 
value.  Accordingly,  we  record  the  full  value  of  share  repurchases,  upon  the  trade  date,  against  Common  Stock  except 
when  to  do  so  would  result  in  a  negative  balance  in  our  Common  Stock  account.  In  such  instances,  on  a  period  basis,  we 
record  the  cost  of  any  further  share  repurchases  as  a  reduction  in  retained  earnings.  Due  to  the  large  number  of  share 
repurchases  and  the  increase  in  our  Common  Stock  market  value  over  the  past  several  years,  our  Common  Stock  balance 
is  frequently  zero  at  the  end  of  any  period.  Accordingly,  $1,434  million,  $1,154  million  and  $713  million  in  share 
repurchases  were  recorded  as  a  reduction  in  Retained  earnings  in  2008,  2007  and  2006,  respectively.  See  Note  18  for 
additional  information. 

Pension  and  Post-Retirement  Medical  Benefits.  In  September  2006,  the  FASB  issued  SFAS  No.  158,  “Employers’ 
Accounting  for  Defined  Benefit  Pension  and  Other  Postretirement  Plans  -  an  amendment  of  FASB  Statements  No.  87,  88, 
106  and  132(R),”  (“SFAS  158”).  In  the  fourth  quarter  of  2006,  we  adopted  the  recognition  and  disclosure  provisions  of 
SFAS  158.  Additionally,  SFAS  158  requires  measurement  of  the  funded  status  of  pension  and  postretirement  plans  as  of 
the  date  of  a  company’s  fiscal  year  ending  after  December  15,  2008,  the  year  ended  December  27,  2008  for  the  Company. 
The  Company  had  certain  plans  which  had  measurement  dates  that  did  not  coincide  with  our  fiscal  year  end  and  thus  were 
required  to  change  their  measurement  dates  in  2008.  As  permitted  by  SFAS  158,  we  used  the  measurements  performed  in 
2007  to  estimate  the  effects  of  our  change  to  fiscal  year  end  measurement  dates. 


The  recognition  and  disclosure  requirements  of  SFAS  158  required  the  Company  to  recognize  the  funded  status  of  its 
pension  and  post-retirement  plans  in  the  December  30,  2006  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet,  with  a  corresponding 
adjustment  to  Accumulated  other  comprehensive  income  (loss),  net  of  tax.  The  impact  of  adopting  these  provisions  of 
SFAS  158  was  an  after  tax  reduction  of  Shareholders’  Equity  (Deficit)  of  $67  million  in  2006.  Subsequent  to  the  adoption 
of  SFAS  158,  gains  or  losses  and  prior  service  costs  or  credits  are  being  recognized  as  they  arise  as  a  component  of  other 
comprehensive  income  (loss)  to  the  extent  they  have  not  been  recognized  as  a  component  of  net  periodic  benefit  cost 
pursuant  to  SFAS  No.  87,  “Employers’  Accounting  for  Pensions,”  or  SFAS  No.  106,  “Employers’  Accounting  for 
Postretirement  Benefits  Other  Than  Pensions”.  In  the  fourth  quarter  of  2008,  we  adopted  the  measurement  date 
provisions  of  SFAS  158  and  recorded  a  decrease  to  Retained  Earnings  of  $9  million,  or  $6  million  after  tax,  for  our 
pension  plans  and  $2  million,  or  $1  million  after  tax,  for  our  post-retirement  medical  plan,  respectively. 

Quantification  of  Misstatements.  In  September  2006,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  (the  “SEC”)  issued 
Staff  Accounting  Bulletin  No.  108,  “Considering  the  Effects  of  Prior  Year  Misstatements  when  Quantifying 
Misstatements  in  Current  Year  Financial  Statements”  (“SAB  108”).  SAB  108  provides  interpretive  guidance  on  how  the 
effects  of  the  carryover  or  reversal  of  prior  year  misstatements  should  be  considered  in  quantifying  a  current  year 
misstatement  for  the  purpose  of  a  materiality  assessment.  SAB  108  requires  that  registrants  quantify  a  current  year 
misstatement  using  an  approach  that  considers  both  the  impact  of  prior  year  misstatements  that  remain  on  the  balance 
sheet  and  those  that  were  recorded  in  the  current  year  income  statement  (the  “Dual  Method”).  Ftistorically,  we  quantified 
misstatements  and  assessed  materiality  based  on  a  current  year  income  statement  approach.  We  were  required  to  adopt 
SAB  108  in  the  fourth  quarter  of  2006. 

The  transition  provisions  of  SAB  108  permitted  uncorrected  prior  year  misstatements  that  were  not  material  to  any  prior 
periods  under  our  historical  income  statement  approach  but  that  would  have  been  material  under  the  dual  method  of  SAB 
108  to  be  corrected  in  the  carrying  amounts  of  assets  and  liabilities  at  the  beginning  of  2006  with  the  offsetting  adjustment 
to  retained  earnings  for  the  cumulative  effect  of  misstatements.  We  have  adjusted  certain  balances  in  the  accompanying 
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  at  the  beginning  of  2006  to  correct  the  misstatements  discussed  below  which  we 
considered  to  be  immaterial  in  prior  periods  under  our  historical  approach.  The  impact  of  the  January  1,  2006  cumulative 
effect  adjustment,  net  of  any  income  tax  effect,  was  an  increase  to  retained  earnings  as  follows: 


Deferred  Tax  Liabilities  Adjustments  $  79 

Reversal  of  Unallocated  Reserve  6 

Non-GAAP  Conventions  _ 15 

Net  Increase  to  January  1,  2006  Retained  Earnings  _$ _ 100 


Deferred  Taxes  Our  opening  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet  at  Spin-off  included  significant  deferred  tax  assets  and 
liabilities.  Over  time  we  have  determined  that  deferred  tax  liability  amounts  were  recorded  in  excess  of  those  necessary  to 
reflect  our  temporary  differences. 

Unallocated  Reserves  A  reserve  was  established  in  1999  equal  to  certain  out  of  year  corrections  recorded  during  that  year 
such  that  there  was  no  misstatement  under  our  historical  approach.  No  adjustments  have  been  recorded  to  this  reserve 
since  its  establishment  and  we  do  not  believe  the  reserve  is  required. 

Non-GAAP  Accounting  Conventions  Prior  to  2006,  we  used  certain  non-GAAP  conventions  to  account  for  capitalized 
interest  on  restaurant  construction  projects,  the  leases  of  our  then  Pizza  Hut  United  Kingdom  (“U.K.”)  unconsolidated 
affiliate  and  certain  state  tax  benefits.  The  net  income  statement  impact  on  any  given  year  from  the  use  of  these  non- 
GAAP  conventions  was  immaterial  both  individually  and  in  the  aggregate  under  our  historical  approach.  Below  is  a 
summary  of  the  accounting  policies  we  adopted  effective  the  beginning  of  2006  and  the  impact  of  the  cumulative  effect 
adjustment  under  SAB  108,  net  of  any  income  tax  effect. 

Interest  Capitalization  SFAS  No.  34,  “Capitalization  of  Interest  Cost”  requires  that  interest  be  capitalized  as  part  of  an 
asset’s  acquisition  cost.  We  traditionally  have  not  capitalized  interest  on  individual  restaurant  construction  projects.  We 
increased  our  2006  beginning  retained  earnings  balance  by  approximately  $12  million  for  the  estimated  capitalized 
interest  on  existing  restaurants,  net  of  accumulated  depreciation. 

67 


Lease  Accounting  by  our  Pizza  Hut  United  Kingdom  Unconsolidated  Affiliate  Prior  to  our  fourth  quarter  2006 
acquisition  of  the  remaining  fifty  percent  interest  in  our  Pizza  Hut  U.K.  unconsolidated  affiliate,  we  accounted  for  our 
ownership  under  the  equity  method.  The  unconsolidated  affiliate  historically  accounted  for  all  of  its  leases  as  operating 
and  we  made  no  adjustments  in  recording  equity  income.  We  decreased  our  2006  beginning  retained  earnings  balance  by 
approximately  $4  million  to  reflect  our  fifty  percent  share  of  the  cumulative  equity  income  impact  of  properly  recording 
certain  leases  as  capital. 

Recognition  of  Certain  State  Tax  Benefits  We  historically  recognized  certain  state  tax  benefits  on  a  cash  basis  as  they 
were  recognized  on  the  respective  state  tax  returns  instead  of  in  the  year  the  benefit  originated.  We  increased  our  2006 
beginning  retained  earnings  by  approximately  $7  million  to  recognize  these  state  tax  benefits  as  deferred  tax  assets. 

New  Accounting  Pronouncements  Not  Yet  Adopted. 

In  February  2008,  the  FASB  issued  FASB  Staff  Position  (“FSP”)  No.  157-2,  “Effective  Date  of  FASB  Statement  No. 
157”  which  permits  a  one-year  deferral  for  the  implementation  of  SFAS  157  with  regard  to  non-financial  assets  and 
liabilities  that  are  not  recognized  or  disclosed  at  fair  value  in  the  financial  statements  on  a  recurring  basis  (at  least 
annually).  We  elected  to  defer  adoption  of  SFAS  157  for  such  non-financial  assets  and  liabilities,  which,  for  the 
Company,  primarily  includes  long-lived  assets,  goodwill  and  intangibles  for  which  fair  value  would  be  determined  as  part 
of  related  impairment  tests,  and  we  do  not  currently  anticipate  that  full  adoption  in  2009  will  materially  impact  the 
Company’s  results  of  operations  or  financial  condition. 

In  December  2007,  the  FASB  issued  SFAS  No.  141  (revised  2007),  “Business  Combinations”  (“SFAS  141R”).  SFAS 
14 1R,  which  is  broader  in  scope  than  SFAS  141,  applies  to  all  transactions  or  other  events  in  which  an  entity  obtains 
control  of  one  or  more  businesses,  and  requires  that  the  acquisition  method  be  used  for  such  transactions  or  events.  SFAS 
14 1R,  with  limited  exceptions,  will  require  an  acquirer  to  recognize  the  assets  acquired,  the  liabilities  assumed,  and  any 
noncontrolling  interest  in  the  acquiree  at  the  acquisition  date,  measured  at  their  fair  values  as  of  that  date.  This  will  result 
in  acquisition  related  costs  and  anticipated  restructuring  costs  related  to  the  acquisition  being  recognized  separately  from 
the  business  combination.  SFAS  141R  is  effective  as  of  the  beginning  of  an  entity’s  first  fiscal  year  beginning  after 
December  15,  2008,  the  year  beginning  December  28,  2008  for  the  Company.  The  impact  of  SFAS  14 1R  on  the 
Company  will  be  dependent  upon  the  extent  to  which  we  have  transactions  or  events  occur  that  are  within  its  scope. 

In  December  2007,  the  FASB  issued  SFAS  No.  160,  “Noncontrolling  Interests  in  Consolidated  Financial  Statements” 
(“SFAS  160”).  SFAS  160  amends  Accounting  Research  Bulletin  No.  51,  “Consolidated  Financial  Statements,”  and  will 
change  the  accounting  and  reporting  for  noncontrolling  interests,  which  are  the  portion  of  equity  in  a  subsidiary  not 
attributable,  directly  or  indirectly,  to  a  parent.  SFAS  160  is  effective  for  fiscal  years  and  interim  periods  beginning  on  or 
after  December  15,  2008,  the  year  beginning  December  28,  2008  for  the  Company  and  requires  retroactive  adoption  of  its 
presentation  and  disclosure  requirements.  We  do  not  anticipate  that  the  adoption  of  SFAS  160  will  materially  impact  the 
Company. 

In  March  2008,  the  FASB  issued  SFAS  No.  161,  “Disclosures  about  Derivative  Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities” 
(“SFAS  161”).  SFAS  161  amends  and  expands  the  disclosure  requirements  in  SFAS  133,  “Accounting  for  Derivative 
Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities”.  SFAS  161  is  effective  for  fiscal  years  and  interim  periods  beginning  after 
November  15,  2008,  the  year  beginning  December  28,  2008  for  the  Company. 

In  December  2008,  the  FASB  issued  FSP  No.  FAS  132(R)-1  (“FSP  FAS  132(R)-1”),  “Employers’  Disclosures  about 
Postretirement  Benefit  Plan  Assets,”  which  expands  the  disclosure  requirements  about  plan  assets  for  defined  benefit 
pension  plans  and  postretirement  plans.  FSP  FAS  132(R)-1  is  effective  for  financial  statements  issued  for  fiscal  years 
ending  after  December  15,  2009,  the  year  ending  December  26,  2009  for  the  Company. 


Note  3  -  Two-for-One  Common  Stock  Split 

On  May  17,  2007,  the  Company  announced  that  its  Board  of  Directors  approved  a  two-for-one  split  of  the  Company’s 
outstanding  shares  of  Common  Stock.  The  stock  split  was  effected  in  the  form  of  a  stock  dividend  and  entitled  each 
shareholder  of  record  at  the  close  of  business  on  June  1,  2007  to  receive  one  additional  share  for  every  outstanding  share 
of  Common  Stock  held.  The  stock  dividend  was  distributed  on  June  26,  2007,  with  approximately  261  million  shares  of 
Common  Stock  distributed.  All  per  share  and  share  amounts  in  the  accompanying  Financial  Statements  and  Notes  to  the 
Financial  Statements  have  been  adjusted  to  reflect  the  stock  split. 

Note  4  -  Earnings  Per  Common  Share  (“EPS”) 


2008  2007  2006 

Net  income  $  964  $  909  $  824 

Weighted-average  common  shares  outstanding  (for  basic 

calculation)  475  522  546 

Effect  of  dilutive  share-based  employee  compensation  16  19  18 

Weighted-average  common  and  dilutive  potential  common  shares 

outstanding  (for  diluted  calculation)  491  541  564 

Basic  EPS  $  2,03  $  1,74  $  1.51 

Diluted  EPS  $  1.96  $  1.68  $  1.46 

Unexercised  employee  stock  options  and  stock  appreciation  rights 

(in  millions)  excluded  from  the  diluted  EPS  compensation^  5.9  5.7  13.3 

(a)  These  unexercised  employee  stock  options  and  stock  appreciation  rights  were  not  included  in  the  computation  of 
diluted  EPS  because  to  do  so  would  have  been  antidilutive  for  the  periods  presented. 

Note  5  -  Items  Affecting  Comparability  of  Net  Income  and  Cash  Flows 

Consolidation  of  a  Former  Unconsolidated  Affiliate  in  China 


In  2008,  we  began  consolidating  an  entity  in  which  we  have  a  majority  ownership  interest  and  that  operates  the  KFCs  in 
Beijing,  China.  Our  partners  in  this  entity  are  essentially  state-owned  enterprises.  We  historically  did  not  consolidate  this 
entity,  instead  accounting  for  the  unconsolidated  affiliate  using  the  equity  method  of  accounting,  due  to  the  effective 
participation  of  our  partners  in  the  significant  decisions  of  the  entity  that  were  made  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business  as 
addressed  in  Emerging  Issues  Task  Force  ("EITF")  Issue  No.  96-16,  "Investor's  Accounting  for  an  Investee  When  the 
Investor  Has  a  Majority  of  the  Voting  Interest  but  the  Minority  Shareholder  or  Shareholders  Have  Certain  Approval  or 
Veto  Rights".  Concurrent  with  a  decision  that  we  made  on  January  1,  2008  regarding  top  management  of  the  entity,  we 
no  longer  believe  that  our  partners  effectively  participate  in  the  decisions  that  are  made  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business. 
Accordingly,  we  began  consolidating  this  entity. 

Like  our  other  unconsolidated  affiliates,  the  accounting  for  this  entity  prior  to  2008  resulted  in  royalties  being  reflected  as 
Franchise  and  license  fees  and  our  share  of  the  entity’s  net  income  being  reflected  in  Other  (income)  expense.  The  impact 
on  our  Consolidated  Statement  of  Income  for  the  year  ended  December  27,  2008  as  a  result  of  our  consolidation  of  this 
entity  was  as  follows: 


69 


Increase  (Decrease) 


Company  sales  $  299 

Company  restaurant  expenses  237 

Franchise  and  license  fees  (19) 

General  and  administrative  expenses  6 

Other  (income)  expense  _ jf@t 

Operating  Profit  _ 7_ 


The  impact  on  Other  (income)  expense  includes  both  the  current  year  minority  interest  in  pre-tax  earnings  of  the 
unconsolidated  affiliate  as  well  as  the  reduction  in  Other  (income)  expense  that  resulted  from  our  share  of  after-tax 
earnings  no  longer  being  reported  in  Other  (income)  expense.  The  increase  in  Operating  Profit  was  offset  by  a 
corresponding  increase  in  Income  tax  provision  such  that  there  was  no  impact  to  Net  Income.  Our  Consolidated  Balance 
Sheet  at  December  27,  2008  reflects  the  consolidation  of  this  entity;  with  Investment  in  unconsolidated  affiliates 
eliminated,  the  entity’s  balance  sheet  consolidated  and  a  minority  interest  reflected  in  Other  liabilities  and  deferred 
credits. 

Sale  of  Our  Interest  in  Our  Japan  Unconsolidated  Affiliate 

In  December  2007,  we  sold  our  interest  in  our  unconsolidated  affiliate  in  Japan  for  $128  million  in  cash  (including  the 
impact  of  related  foreign  currency  contracts  that  were  settled  in  December  2007).  Our  international  subsidiary  that  owned 
this  interest  operates  on  a  fiscal  calendar  with  a  period  end  that  is  approximately  one  month  earlier  than  our  consolidated 
period  close.  Thus,  consistent  with  our  historical  treatment  of  events  occurring  during  the  lag  period,  the  pre-tax  gain  on 
the  sale  of  this  investment  of  $100  million  was  recorded  in  the  quarter  ended  March  22,  2008.  However,  the  cash 
proceeds  from  this  transaction  were  transferred  from  our  international  subsidiary  to  the  U.S.  in  December  2007  and  thus 
were  reported  on  our  Consolidated  Statement  of  Cash  Flows  for  the  year  ended  December  29,  2007.  The  offset  to  this 
cash  on  our  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet  at  December  29,  2007  was  in  accounts  payable  and  other  current  liabilities, 
which  was  relieved  in  the  quarter  ended  March  22,  2008  upon  recognition  of  the  gain. 

While  we  will  no  longer  have  an  ownership  interest  in  the  entity  that  operates  both  KFCs  and  Pizza  Huts  in  Japan,  it  will 
continue  to  be  a  franchisee  as  it  was  when  it  operated  as  an  unconsolidated  affiliate.  Excluding  the  one-time  gain,  the  sale 
of  our  interest  in  our  Japan  unconsolidated  affiliate  did  not  have  a  significant  impact  on  our  results  of  operations  for  the 
year  ended  December  27,  2008  as  the  Other  income  we  previously  recorded  representing  our  share  of  earnings  of  the 
unconsolidated  affiliate  has  historically  not  been  significant. 

U.S.  Business  Transformation 


As  part  of  our  plan  to  transform  our  U.S.  business  we  took  several  measures  (“the  U.S.  business  transformation 
measures”)  in  2008.  These  measures  included:  expansion  of  our  U.S.  refranchising;  charges  relating  to  G&A  productivity 
initiatives  and  realignment  of  resources  (primarily  severance  and  early  retirement  costs);  and  investments  in  our  U.S. 
Brands  made  on  behalf  of  our  franchisees  such  as  equipment  purchases. 

In  the  year  ended  December  27,  2008,  we  refranchised  700  restaurants  in  the  U.S.  resulting  in  a  pre-tax  loss  of  $5  million. 
These  refranchising  losses  were  the  net  result  of  our  refranchising  of,  or  offers  to  refranchise,  stores  or  groups  of  stores  in 
the  U.S.  at  prices  less  than  their  recorded  carrying  values. 

We  provided  severance  and  early  retirement  benefits  to  certain  U.S.  based  employees  as  part  of  our  G&A  productivity 
initiatives  and  realignment  of  resources.  In  connection  with  this  we  recorded  a  pre-tax  charge  of  $49  million  during  2008 
including  $18  million  from  the  resulting  impact  on  our  pension  and  post  retirement  medical  plans.  The  current  liability 
for  the  severance  portion  of  this  charge  was  $27  million  as  of  December  27,  2008. 


Additionally,  the  Company  recognized  pre-tax  expenses  of  $7  million  related  to  investments  in  our  U.S.  Brands. 

We  are  not  including  the  impacts  of  these  U.S.  business  transformation  measures  in  our  U.S.  segment  for  performance 
reporting  purposes  as  we  do  not  believe  they  are  indicative  of  our  ongoing  operations. 

Pizza  Hut  United  Kingdom  Acquisition 

On  September  12,  2006,  we  completed  the  acquisition  of  the  remaining  fifty  percent  ownership  interest  of  our  Pizza  Hut 
U.K.  unconsolidated  affiliate  for  $187  million  in  cash,  including  transaction  costs  and  prior  to  $9  million  of  cash  assumed. 
This  unconsolidated  affiliate  owned  more  than  500  restaurants  in  the  U.K.  The  acquisition  was  driven  by  growth 
opportunities  we  see  in  the  market  and  the  desire  of  our  former  partner  in  the  unconsolidated  affiliate  to  refocus  its 
business  to  other  industry  sectors.  Prior  to  this  acquisition,  we  accounted  for  our  ownership  interest  under  the  equity 
method  of  accounting. 

Under  the  equity  method  of  accounting,  we  reported  our  fifty  percent  share  of  the  net  income  of  the  unconsolidated 
affiliate  (after  interest  expense  and  income  taxes)  as  Other  (income)  expense  in  the  Consolidated  Statements  of  Income. 
We  also  recorded  a  franchise  fee  for  the  royalty  received  from  the  stores  owned  by  the  unconsolidated  affiliate.  Since  the 
date  of  acquisition,  we  have  reported  Company  sales  and  the  associated  restaurant  costs,  G&A  expense,  interest  expense 
and  income  taxes  associated  with  the  restaurants  previously  owned  by  the  unconsolidated  affiliate  in  the  appropriate  line 
items  of  our  Consolidated  Statements  of  Income.  We  no  longer  record  franchise  fee  income  for  the  restaurants  previously 
owned  by  the  unconsolidated  affiliate  nor  do  we  report  other  income  under  the  equity  method  of  accounting.  As  a  result 
of  this  acquisition,  Company  sales  and  restaurant  profit  increased  $576  million  and  $59  million,  respectively,  franchise 
fees  decreased  $19  million  and  G&A  expenses  increased  $33  million  in  2007  compared  to  2006. 

If  the  acquisition  had  been  completed  as  of  the  beginning  of  the  year  ended  December  30,  2006,  pro  forma  Company  sales 
and  franchise  and  license  fees  would  have  been  as  follows: 


2006 

Company  sales  $  8,886 

Franchise  and  license  fees  $  1,176 

The  pro  forma  impact  of  the  acquisition  on  net  income  and  diluted  earnings  per  share  would  not  have  been  significant  in 
2006.  The  pro  forma  information  is  not  necessarily  indicative  of  the  results  of  operations  had  the  acquisition  actually 
occurred  at  the  beginning  of  this  period  nor  is  it  necessarily  indicative  of  future  results. 


71 


Facility  Actions 

Refranchising  (gain)  loss,  Store  closure  (income)  costs  and  Store  impairment  charges  by  reportable  segment  are  as 
follows: 


2008 

2007 

2006 

u.s. 

Refranchising  (gain)  loss(a) 

$ 

5 

$ 

(12) 

$ 

(20) 

Store  closure  (income)  costs(b) 

(4) 

(9) 

(1) 

Store  impairment  charges 

34 

23 

38 

Closure  and  impairment  (income)  expenses 

$ 

30 

$ 

14 

$ 

37 

YRI 

Refranchising  (gain)  loss(a) 

$ 

(9) 

$ 

3 

$ 

(4) 

Store  closure  (income)  costs(b) 

(6) 

1 

1 

Store  impairment  charges 

11 

13 

15 

Closure  and  impairment  (income)  expenses 

$ 

5 

$ 

14 

$ 

16 

China  Division 

Refranchising  (gain)  loss(a) 

$ 

(1) 

$ 

(2) 

$ 

- 

Store  closure  (income)  costs(b) 

(2) 

_ 

(1) 

Store  impairment  charges 

10 

7 

7 

Closure  and  impairment  (income)  expenses 

$ 

8 

$ 

7 

$ 

6 

Worldwide 

Refranchising  (gain)  loss(a) 

$ 

(5) 

$ 

(11) 

$ 

(24) 

Store  closure  (income)  costs(b) 

(12) 

(8) 

(1) 

Store  impairment  charges 

55 

43 

60 

Closure  and  impairment  (income)  expenses 

$ 

43 

$ 

35 

$ 

59 

(a)  Refranchising  (gain)  loss  is  not  allocated  to  segments  for  performance  reporting  purposes. 


(b)  Store  closure  (income)  costs  include  the  net  gain  or  loss  on  sales  of  real  estate  on  which  we  formerly  operated  a 
Company  restaurant  that  was  closed,  lease  reserves  established  when  we  cease  using  a  property  under  an 
operating  lease  and  subsequent  adjustments  to  those  reserves,  and  other  facility-related  expenses  from  previously 
closed  stores. 


72 


i/. global-reports. c 


The  following  table 
stores. 

summarizes  the  2008  and  2007  activity  related 

to  reserves  for  remaining  lease  obligations  for  closed 

Beginning 

Balance 

Amounts 

Used 

New 

Decisions 

Estimate/Decision 

Changes 

CTA/ 

Other 

Ending 

Balance 

2008  Activity 

$  34 

(7) 

3 

- 

(3) 

$  27 

2007  Activity 

$  36 

(12) 

8 

1 

1 

$  34 

Assets  held  for  sale  at  December  27,  2008  and  December  29,  2007  total  $31  million  and  $9  milbon,  respectively,  of  U.S. 
property,  plant  and  equipment  and  are  included  in  prepaid  expenses  and  other  current  assets  on  our  Consolidated  Balance 
Sheets. 

Note  6  -  Supplemental  Cash  Flow  Data 


Cash  Paid  For: 
Interest 
Income  taxes 


$  248 

260 


177 

264 


$  185 

304 


Significant  Non-Cash  Investing  and  Financing  Activities: 

Capital  lease  obligations  incurred  to  acquire  assets  3 

Net  investment  in  direct  financing  leases 

(a)  Includes  the  capital  lease  of  an  airplane  (see  Note  13). 


73 


Note  7  -  Franchise  and  License  Fees 


Initial  fees,  including  renewal  fees 

Initial  franchise  fees  included  in  refranchising  gains 

Continuing  fees 


Note  8  -  Other  (Income)  Expense 


Equity  income  from  investments  in  unconsolidated 
affiliates 

Minority  Interest(a) 

Gain  upon  sale  of  investment  in  unconsolidated 
affiliate(h)(c) 

Contract  termination  charge<d' 

Wrench  litigation  income(c) (d) (e) 

Foreign  exchange  net  (gain)  loss  and  other 
Other  (income)  expense 


2008 

2007 

2006 

$  61 

$  49 

$  57 

(20) 

(10) 

(17) 

41 

39 

40 

1,395 

1,277 

1,156 

$  1,436 

$  1,316 

$  1,196 

2008 

2007 

2006 

$  (41) 

11 

$  (51) 

$  (51) 

(100) 

(6) 

(2) 

_ 

(11) 

_ 

(16) 

(3) 

(7) 

$  (146) 

$  (71) 

$  (52) 

(a)  On  January  1,  2008,  the  Company  began  consolidating  an  entity  in  China  in  which  we  have  a  majority 
ownership  interest.  See  Note  5. 

(b)  Fiscal  year  2008  reflects  the  gain  recognized  on  the  sale  of  our  interest  in  our  unconsolidated  affiliate  in  Japan. 
See  Note  5. 

(c)  Fiscal  years  2007  and  2006  reflect  recognition  of  income  associated  with  receipt  of  payments  for  a  note 
receivable  arising  from  the  2005  sale  of  our  fifty  percent  interest  in  the  entity  that  operated  almost  all  KFCs  and 
Pizza  Huts  in  Poland  and  the  Czech  Republic  to  our  then  partner  in  the  entity. 

(d)  Reflects  an  $8  million  charge  associated  with  the  termination  of  a  beverage  agreement  in  the  U.S.  segment. 

(e)  Fiscal  year  2007  reflects  financial  recoveries  from  settlements  with  insurance  carriers  related  to  a  lawsuit  settled 
by  Taco  Bell  Corporation  in  2004. 


74 


Note  9  -  Property,  Plant  and  Equipment,  net 


jtjl _ ^  _ 2007 


Land 

Buildings  and  improvements 

Capital  leases,  primarily  buildings 

Machinery  and  equipment 

$ 

517 

3,596 

259 

2.525 

$ 

548 

3,649 

284 

2.651 

Accumulated  depreciation  and  amortization 

6,897 

13.1871 

7,132 

13.2831 

$ 

3.710 

$ 

3.849 

Depreciation  and  amortization  expense  related  to  property,  plant  and  equipment  was  $542  million,  $514  million  and  $466 
million  in  2008,  2007  and  2006,  respectively. 

Note  10  -  Goodwill  and  Intangible  Assets 

The  changes  in  the  carrying  amount  of  goodwill  are  as  follows: 


Balance  as  of  December  30,  2006 
Acquisitions 

Disposals  and  other,  net(a> 
Balance  as  of  December  29,  2007 
Acquisitions 

Disposals  and  other,  net(b) 
Balance  as  of  December  27,  2008 


U.S. 

YRI 

$ 

367 

$ 

237 

(9) 

17 

$ 

358 

$ 

254 

10 

— 

(12) 

(71) 

$ 

356 

$ 

183 

China 

Division  Worldwide 


$ 

58 

2 

$ 

662 

10 

$ 

60 

$ 

672 

6 

16 

— 

(83) 

$ 

66 

$ 

605 

(a)  Disposals  and  other,  net  for  YRI  primarily  reflects  adjustments  to  the  Pizza  Hut  U.K.  goodwill  allocation  and 
the  impact  of  foreign  currency  translation  on  existing  balances.  Disposals  and  other,  net  for  the  U.S.  Division, 
primarily  reflects  goodwill  write-offs  associated  with  refranchising. 

(b)  Disposals  and  other,  net  for  YRI  primarily  reflects  the  impact  of  foreign  currency  translation  on  existing 
balances.  Disposals  and  other,  net  for  the  U.S.  Division,  primarily  reflects  goodwill  write-offs  associated  with 
refranchising. 


75 


Intangible  assets,  net  for  the  years  ended  2008  and  2007  are  as  follows: 


2008 


2007 


Gross 

Carrying 

Amount 

Definite-lived  intangible  assets 
Franchise  contract  rights  $  147 

Trademarks/brands  221 

Lease  tenancy  rights  3 1 

Favorable/unfavorable  operating 

leases  12 

Reacquired  franchise  rights  1 1 

Other  6 

$  428 


Accumulated 

Amortization 

Gross 

Carrying 

Amount 

Accumulated 

Amortization 

$  (70) 

$  157 

$  (73) 

(35) 

221 

(26) 

(7) 

27 

(6) 

(9) 

15 

(12) 

(1) 

17 

(1) 

(2) 

6 

(2) 

$  (124) 

$  443 

$  (120) 

Indefinite-lived  intangible  assets 

Trademarks/brands  $  31  $  31 


We  have  recorded  intangible  assets  through  past  acquisitions  representing  the  value  of  our  KFC,  LJS  and  A&W 
trademarks/brands.  The  value  of  a  trademark/brand  is  determined  based  upon  the  value  derived  from  the  royalty  we 
avoid,  in  the  case  of  Company  stores,  or  receive,  in  the  case  of  franchise  and  licensee  stores,  for  the  use  of  the 
trademark/brand.  We  have  determined  that  our  KFC  trademark/brand  intangible  asset  has  an  indefinite  life  and  therefore 
is  not  amortized.  We  have  determined  that  our  LJS  and  A&W  trademarks/brands  are  subject  to  amortization  and  are 
being  amortized  over  their  expected  useful  lives  which  are  currently  thirty  years. 

Amortization  expense  for  all  definite-lived  intangible  assets  was  $18  million  in  2008,  $19  million  in  2007  and  $15  million 
in  2006.  Amortization  expense  for  definite-lived  intangible  assets  will  approximate  $17  million  annually  in  2009  through 
2012  and  $14  million  in  2013. 


Note  11  -  Accounts  Payable  and  Other  Current  Liabilities 


2008  2007 

Accounts  payable  $  508  $  519 

Capital  expenditure  liability  130  120 

Accrued  compensation  and  benefits  376  372 

Dividends  payable  87  75 

Proceeds  from  sale  of  interest  in  Japan  unconsolidated  affiliate  (See  Note  5)  —  128 

Other  current  liabilities  372  436 

$  1,473  $  1,650 


Note  12  -  Short-term  Borrowings  and  Long-term  Debt 


2008  2007 

Short-term  Borrowings 

Current  maturities  of  long-term  debt  $  15  $  268 

Other  _ 10  _ 20^ 

$  25  $  288 


Long-term  Debt 

Unsecured  International  Revolving  Credit  Facility,  expires  November  2012  $  —  $  28 

Unsecured  Revolving  Credit  Facility,  expires  November  2012  299 

Senior,  Unsecured  Term  Loan,  due  July  2011  375 

Senior,  Unsecured  Notes,  due  May  2008  —  250 

Senior,  Unsecured  Notes,  due  April  201 1  648  648 

Senior,  Unsecured  Notes,  due  July  2012  399  399 

Senior,  Unsecured  Notes,  due  April  2016  300  300 

Senior,  Unsecured  Notes,  due  March  2018  598  598 

Senior,  Unsecured  Notes,  due  November  2037  597  597 

Capital  lease  obligations  (See  Note  13)  234  282 

Other,  due  through  2019(11%)  _ 70 _  _ 73_ 

3,520  3,175 

Less  current  maturities  of  long-term  debt  _ (15  )  _ (268) 

Long-term  debt  excluding  SFAS  133  adjustment  3,505  2,907 

Derivative  instrument  adjustment  under  SFAS  133  (See  Note  14)  59 _  17 

Long-term  debt  including  SFAS  133  adjustment  3,564  $  2J24 


Our  primary  bank  credit  agreement  comprises  a  $1.15  billion  syndicated  senior  unsecured  revolving  credit  facility  (the 
“Credit  Facility”)  which  matures  in  November  2012  and  includes  23  participating  banks  with  commitments  ranging  from 
$20  million  to  $113  million.  Under  the  terms  of  the  Credit  Facility,  we  may  borrow  up  to  the  maximum  borrowing  limit, 
less  outstanding  letters  of  credit  or  banker’s  acceptances,  where  applicable.  At  December  27,  2008,  our  unused  Credit 
Facility  totaled  $685  million  net  of  outstanding  letters  of  credit  of  $166  million.  There  were  borrowings  of  $299  million 
outstanding  under  the  Credit  Facility  at  December  27,  2008.  The  interest  rate  for  borrowings  under  the  Credit  Facility 
ranges  from  0.25%  to  1 .25%  over  the  London  Interbank  Offered  Rate  (“LIBOR”)  or  is  determined  by  an  Alternate  Base 
Rate,  which  is  the  greater  of  the  Prime  Rate  or  the  Federal  Funds  Rate  plus  0.50%.  The  exact  spread  over  LIBOR  or  the 
Alternate  Base  Rate,  as  applicable,  depends  on  our  performance  under  specified  financial  criteria.  Interest  on  any 
outstanding  borrowings  under  the  Credit  Facility  is  payable  at  least  quarterly. 

We  also  have  a  $350  million,  syndicated  revolving  credit  facility  (the  “International  Credit  Facility,”  or  “ICF”)  which 
matures  in  November  2012  and  includes  6  banks  with  commitments  ranging  from  $35  million  to  $90  million.  There  was 
available  credit  of  $350  million  and  no  borrowings  outstanding  under  the  ICF  at  the  end  of  2008.  The  interest  rate  for 
borrowings  under  the  ICF  ranges  from  0.31%  to  1.50%  over  LIBOR  or  is  determined  by  a  Canadian  Alternate  Base  Rate, 
which  is  the  greater  of  the  Citibank,  N.A.,  Canadian  Branch’s  publicly  announced  reference  rate  or  the  “Canadian  Dollar 
Offered  Rate”  plus  0.50%.  The  exact  spread  over  LIBOR  or  the  Canadian  Alternate  Base  Rate,  as  applicable,  depends 
upon  YUM’s  performance  under  specified  financial  criteria.  Interest  on  any  outstanding  borrowings  under  the  ICF  is 
payable  at  least  quarterly. 


77 


On  July  11,  2008  we  entered  into  a  variable  rate  senior  unsecured  term  loan  (“Domestic  Term  Loan”),  in  an  aggregate 
principal  amount  of  $375  million  that  matures  in  three  years.  At  our  discretion  the  variable  rate  resets  at  one,  two,  three  or 
six  month  intervals.  We  determine  whether  the  variable  rate  at  each  reset  date  is  based  upon:  (1)  LIBOR  plus  an 
applicable  spread  of  up  to  2.5%,  or  (2)  an  Alternate  Base  Rate.  The  Alternate  Base  Rate  is  the  greater  of  the  Prime  Rate 
or  the  Federal  Funds  Rate  plus  0.50%,  plus  an  applicable  spread  of  up  to  1.5%.  The  proceeds  from  the  Domestic  Term 
Loan  were  used  for  general  corporate  purposes. 

The  Credit  Facility,  Domestic  Term  Loan,  and  the  ICF  are  unconditionally  guaranteed  by  our  principal  domestic 
subsidiaries.  Additionally,  the  ICF  is  unconditionally  guaranteed  by  YUM.  These  agreements  contain  financial 
covenants  relating  to  maintenance  of  leverage  and  fixed  charge  coverage  ratio  and  also  contain  affirmative  and  negative 
covenants  including,  among  other  things,  limitations  on  certain  additional  indebtedness  and  liens,  and  certain  other 
transactions  specified  in  the  agreement.  Given  the  Company’s  strong  balance  sheet  and  cash  flows  we  were  able  to 
comply  with  all  debt  covenant  requirements  at  December  27,  2008  with  a  considerable  amount  of  cushion. 

The  majority  of  our  remaining  long-term  debt  primarily  comprises  Senior  Unsecured  Notes  with  varying  maturity  dates 
from  2011  through  2037  and  interest  rates  ranging  from  6.25%  to  8.88%.  The  Senior  Unsecured  Notes  represent  senior, 
unsecured  obligations  and  rank  equally  in  right  of  payment  with  all  of  our  existing  and  future  unsecured  unsubordinated 
indebtedness.  Amounts  outstanding  under  Senior  Unsecured  Notes  were  $2.6  billion  at  December  27,  2008.  In  May 
2008,  $250  million  of  Senior  Unsecured  Notes  matured,  and  the  repayment  was  funded  with  additional  borrowings  under 
our  Credit  Facility. 

The  following  table  summarizes  all  Senior  Unsecured  Notes  issued  that  remain  outstanding  at  December  27,  2008: 

Interest  Rate 


Principal  Amount 


Issuance  Date(a) 

Maturity  Date 

(in  millions) 

Stated 

Effective^ 

April  2001 

April  2011 

$ 

650 

8.88% 

9.20% 

June  2002 

July  2012 

$ 

400 

7.70% 

8.04% 

April  2006 

April  2016 

$ 

300 

6.25% 

6.03% 

October  2007 

March  2018 

$ 

600 

6.25% 

6.38% 

October  2007 

November  2037 

$ 

600 

6.88% 

7.29% 

(a)  Interest  payments  commenced  six  months  after  issuance  date  and  are  payable  semi-annually  thereafter. 

(b)  Includes  the  effects  of  the  amortization  of  any  (1)  premium  or  discount;  (2)  debt  issuance  costs;  and  (3)  gain  or 
loss  upon  settlement  of  related  treasury  locks  and  forward  starting  interest  rate  swaps  utilized  to  hedge  the 
interest  rate  risk  prior  to  the  debt  issuance.  Excludes  the  effect  of  any  swaps  that  remain  outstanding  as 
described  in  Note  14. 


The  annual  maturities  of  short-term  borrowings  and  long-term  debt  as  of  December  27,  2008,  excluding  capital  lease 
obligations  of  $234  million  and  derivative  instrument  adjustments  of  $59  million,  are  as  follows: 


Year  ended: 


2009 

2010 
2011 
2012 
2013 

Thereafter 

Total 


$  12 
3 

1,029 

704 

5 

1,551 
$  3,304 


78 


i/. global-reports. c 


Interest  expense  on  short-term  borrowings  and  long-term  debt  was  $253  million,  $199  million  and  $172  million  in  2008, 
2007  and  2006,  respectively. 

Note  13  -  Leases 

At  December  27,  2008  we  operated  more  than  7,300  restaurants,  leasing  the  underlying  land  and/or  building  in  more  than 
5,800  of  those  restaurants  with  the  vast  majority  of  our  commitments  expiring  within  20  years  from  the  inception  of  the 
lease.  Our  longest  lease  expires  in  2151.  We  also  lease  office  space  for  headquarters  and  support  functions,  as  well  as 
certain  office  and  restaurant  equipment.  We  do  not  consider  any  of  these  individual  leases  material  to  our  operations. 
Most  leases  require  us  to  pay  related  executory  costs,  which  include  property  taxes,  maintenance  and  insurance. 

In  2007,  we  entered  into  an  agreement  to  lease  a  corporate  aircraft  to  enhance  our  international  travel  capabilities.  This 
lease  provided  for  an  upfront  payment  of  $10  million  and  monthly  payments  for  three  years.  At  the  end  of  the  three  year 
period  we  have  the  option  to  purchase  the  aircraft.  In  accordance  with  SFAS  No.  13,  this  lease  has  been  classified  as 
capital  and  we  had  a  related  capital  lease  obligation  recorded  of  $40  million  at  December  27,  2008.  Our  lease  is  with 
CVS  Corporation  (“CVS”).  One  of  the  Company’s  directors  is  the  Chairman,  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  President  of 
CVS.  Multiple  independent  appraisals  were  obtained  during  the  negotiation  process  to  insure  that  the  lease  was  reflective 
of  an  arms-length  transaction. 

Future  minimum  commitments  and  amounts  to  be  received  as  lessor  or  sublessor  under  non-cancelable  leases  are  set  forth 
below: 


2009 

2010 
2011 
2012 
2013 


Thereafter 


Commitments 


Lease  Receivables 


Capital 
$  26 

64 
23 
22 
21 
228 
$  384 


Operating 
$  491 

451 
409 
368 
333 
2,524 
$  4,576 


Direct 
Financing 
$  13 

13 

14 
14 
14 
79 

$  147 


Operating 
$  41 

37 
34 
30 
27 
103 
$  272 


At  December  27,  2008  and  December  29,  2007,  the  present  value  of  minimum  payments  under  capital  leases  was  $234 
million  and  $282  million,  respectively.  At  December  27,  2008  and  December  29,  2007,  unearned  income  associated  with 
direct  financing  lease  receivables  was  $63  million  and  $46  million,  respectively. 

The  details  of  rental  expense  and  income  are  set  forth  below: 


2008  2007  2006 

Rental  expense 

Minimum  $  531  $  474  $  412 

Contingent  _ 113  _ 81  _ 62 

$  644  $  555  $  474 

Minimum  rental  income  $ _ 28  $ _ 23  $ _ 21_ 


79 


Note  14  -  Financial  Instruments 


Derivative  Instruments 


We  enter  into  interest  rate  swaps  with  the  objective  of  reducing  our  exposure  to  interest  rate  risk  and  lowering  interest 
expense  for  a  portion  of  our  debt.  Under  the  contracts,  we  agree  with  other  parties  to  exchange,  at  specified  intervals,  the 
difference  between  variable  rate  and  fixed  rate  amounts  calculated  on  a  notional  principal  amount.  At  December  27,  2008 
and  December  29,  2007,  interest  rate  derivative  instruments  outstanding  had  notional  amounts  of  $775  million  and  $850 
million,  respectively.  These  swaps  have  reset  dates  and  floating  rate  indices  which  match  those  of  our  underlying  fixed- 
rate  debt  and  have  been  designated  as  fair  value  hedges  of  a  portion  of  that  debt.  As  the  swaps  qualify  for  the  short-cut 
method  under  SFAS  133,  no  ineffectiveness  has  been  recorded. 

We  enter  into  foreign  currency  forward  contracts  with  the  objective  of  reducing  our  exposure  to  cash  flow  volatility 
arising  from  foreign  currency  fluctuations  associated  with  certain  foreign  currency  denominated  intercompany  short-term 
receivables  and  payables.  The  notional  amount,  maturity  date,  and  currency  of  these  contracts  match  those  of  the 
underlying  receivables  or  payables.  For  those  foreign  currency  exchange  forward  contracts  that  we  have  designated  as 
cash  flow  hedges,  we  measure  ineffectiveness  by  comparing  the  cumulative  change  in  the  forward  contract  with  the 
cumulative  change  in  the  hedged  item.  No  material  ineffectiveness  was  recognized  in  2008,  2007  or  2006  for  those 
foreign  currency  forward  contracts  designated  as  cash  flow  hedges. 

As  of  December  27,  2008,  we  had  a  net  deferred  loss  associated  with  cash  flow  hedges  of  approximately  $17  million,  net 
of  tax,  due  to  treasury  locks,  forward  starting  interest  rate  swaps  and  foreign  currency  forward  contracts.  The  majority  of 
this  loss  arose  from  the  settlement  of  forward  starting  interest  rate  swaps  entered  into  prior  to  the  issuance  of  our  Senior 
Unsecured  Notes  due  in  2037,  and  is  being  reclassified  into  earnings  through  2037  to  interest  expense. 

As  a  result  of  the  use  of  derivative  instruments,  the  Company  is  exposed  to  risk  that  the  counterparties  will  fail  to  meet 
their  contractual  obligations.  Recent  adverse  developments  in  the  global  financial  and  credit  markets  could  negatively 
impact  the  creditworthiness  of  our  counterparties  and  cause  one  or  more  of  our  counterparties  to  fail  to  perform  as 
expected.  To  mitigate  the  counterparty  credit  risk,  we  only  enter  into  contracts  with  carefully  selected  major  financial 
institutions  based  upon  their  credit  ratings  and  other  factors,  and  continually  assess  the  creditworthiness  of  counterparties. 
At  December  27,  2008,  all  of  the  counterparties  to  our  interest  rate  swaps  and  foreign  currency  forwards  had  investment 
grade  ratings.  To  date,  all  couterparties  have  performed  in  accordance  with  their  contractual  obligations. 

Lease  Guarantees 


As  a  result  of  (a)  assigning  our  interest  in  obligations  under  real  estate  leases  as  a  condition  to  the  refranchising  of  certain 
Company  restaurants;  (b)  contributing  certain  Company  restaurants  to  unconsolidated  affiliates;  and  (c)  guaranteeing 
certain  other  leases,  we  are  frequently  contingently  liable  on  lease  agreements.  These  leases  have  varying  terms,  the  latest 
of  which  expires  in  2026.  As  of  December  27,  2008,  the  potential  amount  of  undiscounted  payments  we  could  be 
required  to  make  in  the  event  of  non-payment  by  the  primary  lessee  was  approximately  $425  million.  The  present  value 
of  these  potential  payments  discounted  at  our  pre-tax  cost  of  debt  at  December  27,  2008  was  approximately  $325  million. 
Our  franchisees  are  the  primary  lessees  under  the  vast  majority  of  these  leases.  We  generally  have  cross-default 
provisions  with  these  franchisees  that  would  put  them  in  default  of  their  franchise  agreement  in  the  event  of  non-payment 
under  the  lease.  We  believe  these  cross-default  provisions  significantly  reduce  the  risk  that  we  will  be  required  to  make 
payments  under  these  leases.  Accordingly,  the  liability  recorded  for  our  probable  exposure  under  such  leases  at  December 
27,  2008  and  December  29,  2007  was  not  material. 


Franchise  Loan  Pool  and  Equipment  Guarantees 


We  have  provided  a  partial  guarantee  of  approximately  $16  million  of  a  franchisee  loan  program  used  primarily  to  assist 
franchisees  in  the  development  of  new  restaurants  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  in  connection  with  the  Company’s  historical 
refranchising  programs  at  December  27,  2008.  We  have  also  provided  two  letters  of  credit  totaling  approximately  $23 
million  in  support  of  the  franchisee  loan  program.  One  such  letter  of  credit  could  be  used  if  we  fail  to  meet  our 
obligations  under  our  guarantee.  The  other  letter  of  credit  could  be  used,  in  certain  circumstances,  to  fund  our 
participation  in  the  funding  of  the  franchisee  loan  program.  The  total  loans  outstanding  under  the  loan  pool  were 
approximately  $48  million  at  December  27,  2008. 

In  addition  to  the  guarantee  described  above,  YUM  has  provided  guarantees  of  approximately  $14  million  on  behalf  of 
franchisees  for  several  equipment  financing  programs  related  to  specific  initiatives.  We  have  provided  a  letter  of  credit 
totaling  $5  million  which  could  be  used  if  we  fail  to  meet  our  obligations  under  our  guarantee  under  one  equipment 
financing  program.  The  total  loans  outstanding  under  these  equipment  financing  programs  were  approximately  $29 
million  at  December  27,  2008. 

Unconsolidated  Affiliates  Guarantees 


From  time  to  time  we  have  guaranteed  certain  lines  of  credit  and  loans  of  unconsolidated  affiliates.  At  December  27, 
2008  there  are  no  guarantees  outstanding  for  unconsolidated  affiliates.  Our  unconsolidated  affiliates  had  total  revenues  of 
$871  million  for  the  year  ended  December  27,  2008  and  assets  and  debt  of  approximately  $304  million  and  $51  million, 
respectively,  at  December  27,  2008. 


81 


Fair  Value 


At  December  27,  2008  and  December  29,  2007,  the  fair  values  of  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  accounts  receivable  and 
accounts  payable  approximated  their  carrying  values  because  of  the  short-term  nature  of  these  instruments.  The  fair  value 
of  notes  receivable  approximates  the  carrying  value  after  consideration  of  recorded  allowances.  Accounts  receivable 
consists  primarily  of  amounts  due  from  franchisees  and  licensees  for  initial  and  continuing  fees.  In  addition,  we  have 
notes  and  lease  receivables  from  certain  of  our  franchisees.  The  financial  condition  of  these  franchisees  and  licensees  is 
largely  dependent  upon  the  underlying  business  trends  of  our  Concepts.  This  concentration  of  credit  risk  is  mitigated,  in 
part,  by  the  large  number  of  franchisees  and  licensees  of  each  Concept  and  the  short-term  nature  of  the  franchise  and 
license  fee  receivables. 


On  December  30,  2007,  the  Company  adopted  the  provisions  of  SFAS  157  related  to  its  financial  assets  and 
liabilities.  The  carrying  amounts  and  fair  values  of  our  other  financial  instruments  not  measured  on  a  recurring  basis 
subject  to  fair  value  disclosures  are  as  follows: 

2008 

2007 

Carrying 

Amount 

Fan- 

Value 

Carrying 

Amount 

Fan- 

Value 

Debt 

Short-term  borrowings  and  long-term  debt, 
excluding  capital  leases  and  the  derivative 
instrument  adjustments 

$  3,296 

$  3,185 

$  2,913 

$3,081 

Lease  guarantees 

26 

26 

22 

26 

Guarantees  supporting  financial  arrangements  of 
certain  franchisees  and  other  third  parties 

8 

8 

8 

8 

Letters  of  credit 

— 

1 

— 

1 

We  estimated  the  fair  value  of  debt,  guarantees  and  letters  of  credit  using  market  quotes  and  calculations  based  on  market 
rates. 

The  following  table  presents  the  fair  values  for  those  financial  assets  and  liabilities  measured  on  a  recurring  basis  as  of 
December  27,  2008: 


_ Fair  Value  Measurements _ 

Quoted  Prices 

in  Active  Significant 

Markets  for  Significant  Other  Unobservable 

Identical  Assets  Observable  Inputs  Inputs 

Description  Total  _  .  (Leyehi'j:  _  '  ,  (Ldvel  2)  '  .  ’(LdvelLS-) 

Foreign  Currency  Forwards,  net  $  12  $  —  $  12  $ 

Interest  Rate  Swaps,  net  62  —  62 

Other  Investments  10  10 

Total  $  84  $  10  $  74  $  — 


The  fair  value  of  the  Company’s  foreign  currency  forwards  and  interest  rate  swaps  were  determined  based  on  the  present 
value  of  expected  future  cash  flows  considering  the  risks  involved,  including  nonperformance  risk,  and  using  discount 
rates  appropriate  for  the  duration.  The  other  investments  include  investments  in  mutual  funds,  which  are  used  to  offset 
fluctuations  in  deferred  compensation  liabilities  that  employees  have  chosen  to  invest  in  phantom  shares  of  a  Stock  Index 
Fund  or  Bond  Index  Fund.  The  other  investments  are  classified  as  trading  securities  and  their  fair  value  is  determined 
based  on  the  closing  market  prices  of  the  respective  mutual  funds  as  of  December  27,  2008. 


82 


i/. global-reports. c 


As  of  December  27,  2008,  $62  million  was  included  in  Other  assets  related  to  the  fair  value  of  the  Company’s  interest  rate 
swaps.  The  fair  value  of  these  swaps  as  of  December  29,  2007  was  a  net  asset  of  approximately  $15  million,  of  which 
$16  million  and  $1  million  were  included  in  Other  assets  and  Other  liabilities  and  deferred  credits,  respectively.  The 
portion  of  this  fair  value  which  has  not  yet  been  recognized  as  an  addition  to  interest  expense  at  December  27,  2008  and 
December  29,  2007  has  been  included  as  an  addition  of  $59  million  and  an  addition  of  $17  million,  respectively,  to  long¬ 
term  debt. 

Note  15  -  Pension  and  Postretirement  Medical  Benefits 

The  following  disclosures  reflect  our  adoption  of  the  provisions  of  SFAS  158  as  discussed  in  Note  2. 

Pension  Benefits.  We  sponsor  noncontributory  defined  benefit  pension  plans  covering  certain  full-time  salaried  and 
hourly  U.S.  employees.  The  most  significant  of  these  plans,  the  YUM  Retirement  Plan  (the  “Plan”),  is  funded  while 
benefits  from  the  other  U.S.  plans  are  paid  by  the  Company  as  incurred.  During  2001,  the  plans  covering  our  U.S. 
salaried  employees  were  amended  such  that  any  salaried  employee  hired  or  rehired  by  YUM  after  September  30,  2001  is 
not  eligible  to  participate  in  those  plans.  Benefits  are  based  on  years  of  service  and  earnings  or  stated  amounts  for  each 
year  of  service.  We  also  sponsor  various  defined  benefit  pension  plans  covering  certain  of  our  non-U.S.  employees,  the 
most  significant  of  which  are  in  the  U.K.  (including  a  plan  for  Pizza  Hut  U.K.  employees  that  was  sponsored  by  our 
unconsolidated  affiliate  prior  to  our  acquisition  of  the  remaining  fifty  percent  interest  in  the  unconsolidated  affiliate  in 
2006).  Our  plans  in  the  U.K.  have  previously  been  amended  such  that  new  employees  are  not  eligible  to  participate  in 
these  plans. 


83 


Obligation  and  Funded  Status  at  Measurement  Date: 


The  following  chart  summarizes  the  balance  sheet  impact,  as  well  as  benefit  obligations,  assets,  and  funded  status 
associated  with  our  U.S.  pension  plans  and  significant  International  pension  plans.  The  actuarial  valuations  for  all  plans 
reflect  measurement  dates  coinciding  with  our  fiscal  year  ends  in  2008  and  September  30  in  2007  except  for  the  Pizza  Hut 
U.K.  Plan  which  has  historically  been  measured  as  of  its  fiscal  year  end. 


U.S.  Pension  Plans _  International  Pension  Plans 


2008 

2007 

2008 

2007 

Change  in  benefit  obligation 

Benefit  obligation  at  beginning  of  year 

$ 

842 

$ 

864 

$ 

161 

$ 

152 

SFAS  158  measurement  date  adjustment 

21 

— 

2 

— 

Service  cost 

30 

33 

8 

9 

Interest  cost 

53 

50 

8 

8 

Participant  contributions 

— 

2 

2 

Plan  amendments 

1 

4 

— 

— 

Acquisitions 

— 

— 

4 

Curtailment  gain 

(6) 

1-1) 

— 

— 

Settlement  loss 

1 

— 

— 

— 

Special  termination  benefits 

13 

— 

— 

— 

Exchange  rate  changes 

— 

— 

(48) 

8 

Benefits  paid 

(48) 

(34) 

(3) 

(2) 

Settlement  payments 

(9) 

— 

— 

— 

Actuarial  (gain)  loss 

25 

(71) 

(4) 

(20) 

Benefit  obligation  at  end  of  year 

$ 

923 

$ 

842 

$ 

126 

$ 

161 

Change  in  plan  assets 

Fair  value  of  plan  assets  at  beginning  of  year 

$ 

732 

$ 

673 

$ 

139 

$ 

117 

Actual  return  on  plan  assets 

(213) 

93 

(33) 

11 

Employer  contributions 

54 

2 

12 

6 

Participant  contributions 

— 

— 

2 

2 

Settlement  payments 

(9) 

— 

— 

— 

Benefits  paid 

(48) 

(33) 

(3) 

(2) 

Exchange  rate  changes 

— 

— 

(34) 

5 

Administrative  expenses 

(3) 

(3) 

— 

— 

Fair  value  of  plan  assets  at  end  of  year 

$ 

513 

$ 

732 

$ 

83 

$ 

139 

Funded  status  at  end  of  year 

$ 

(410) 

$ 

(110) 

$ 

(43) 

$ 

(22) 

84 


Amounts  recognized  in  the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet: 


U.S.  Pension  Plans  International  Pension  Plans 


2008 

2007 

2008 

2007 

Accrued  benefit  asset  -  non-current 

$  — 

$  — 

$  — 

$  5 

Accrued  benefit  liability  -  current 

(11) 

(6) 

— 

— 

Accrued  benefit  liability  -  non-current  (399) 

(104) 

(43) 

(27) 

$  (410) 

$  (110) 

$  (43) 

$  (22) 

Amounts  recognized  as  a  loss  in  Accumulated  Other  Comprehensive  Income: 

U.S.  Pension  Plans 

International  Pension  Plans 

2008 

2007 

2008 

2007 

Actuarial  net  loss 

$  371 

$  77 

$  41 

$  13 

Prior  service  cost 

3 

3 

— 

— 

$  374 

$  80 

$  41 

$  13 

The  accumulated  benefit  obligation  for  the  U.S.  and  International  pension  plans  was 

$970  million  and  $900  million 

December  27,  2008  and  December  29,  2007,  respectively. 

Information  for  pension  plans  with  an  accumulated  benefit  obligation  in  excess  of  plan  assets: 

U.S.  Pension  Plans 

International  Pension  Plans 

2008 

2007 

2008 

2007 

Projected  benefit  obligation 

$  923 

$  73 

$  63 

$  80 

Accumulated  benefit  obligation 

867 

64 

58 

74 

Fair  value  of  plan  assets 

513 

— 

34 

53 

Information  for  pension  plans  with  a 

projected  benefit  obligation 

in  excess  of  plan  assets: 

U.S.  Pension  Plans 

International  Pension  Plans 

2008 

2007 

2008 

2007 

Projected  benefit  obligation 

$  923 

$  842 

$  126 

$  80 

Accumulated  benefit  obligation 

867 

770 

103 

74 

Fair  value  of  plan  assets 

513 

732 

83 

53 

Our  funding  policy  with  respect  to  the  U.S.  Plan  is  to  contribute  amounts  necessary  to  satisfy  minimum  pension  funding 
requirements,  including  requirements  of  the  Pension  Protection  Act  of  2006,  plus  such  additional  amounts  from  time  to 
time  as  are  determined  to  be  appropriate  to  improve  the  U.S.  Plan’s  funded  status.  We  currently  estimate  that  we  will 
contribute  approximately  $80  million  to  the  U.S.  Plan  in  2009. 


85 


The  funding  rules  for  our  pension  plans  outside  of  the  U.S.  vary  from  country  to  country  and  depend  on  many  factors 
including  discount  rates,  performance  of  plan  assets,  local  laws  and  regulations.  The  projected  benefit  obligation  of  our 
pension  plans  in  the  U.K.  exceeded  plan  assets  by  $43  million  at  our  2008  measurement  date.  We  have  committed  to 
make  a  discretionary  funding  contribution  of  approximately  $5  million  in  2009  to  one  of  these  plans.  The  plans  are 
currently  under  review  to  determine  if  additional  discretionary  pension  funding  payments  will  be  committed  to  in  2009. 

We  do  not  anticipate  any  plan  assets  being  returned  to  the  Company  during  2009  for  any  plans. 


Components  of  net  periodic  benei 

Net  periodic  benefit  cost 

it  cost: 

U.S.  Pension  Plans 

International  Pension  Plans(d> 

2008 

2007 

2006 

2008 

2007 

2006 

Service  cost 

$ 

30 

$ 

33  $ 

34 

$ 

8 

$ 

9 

$  5 

Interest  cost 

53 

50 

46 

8 

8 

4 

Amortization  of  prior  service  cost(a) 

- 

1 

3 

- 

- 

- 

Expected  return  on  plan  assets 

(53) 

(51) 

(47) 

(9) 

(9) 

(4) 

Amortization  of  net  loss 

6 

23 

30 

— 

1 

1 

Net  periodic  benefit  cost 

$ 

36 

$ 

56  $ 

66 

$ 

7 

$ 

9 

$  6 

Additional  loss  recognized  due  to: 

Settlement(b) (c) (d) 

$ 

2 

$ 

$ 

— 

$ 

— 

$ 

— 

$  — 

Special  termination  benefits^1 

$ 

13 

$ 

—  $ 

— 

$ 

— 

$ 

— 

$  — 

Pension  losses  in  accumulated  other  comprehensive  income  (loss): 

U.S.  Pension  Plans 

International  Pension  Plans 

2008 

2007 

2008 

2007 

Beginning  of  year 

$ 

80 

$ 

216 

$ 

13 

$ 

31 

Net  actuarial  loss 

301 

(116) 

40 

(17) 

Amortization  of  net  loss 

(6) 

(23) 

— 

(1) 

Settlements 

(1) 

— 

— 

— 

Prior  service  cost 

— 

4 

— 

— 

Amortization  of  prior  service  cost 

— 

(1) 

— 

— 

Exchange  rate  changes 

— 

— 

(12) 

— 

End  of  year 

$ 

374 

$ 

80 

$ 

41 

$ 

13 

(a)  Prior  service  costs  are  amortized  on  a  straight-line  basis  over  the  average  remaining  service  period  of  employees 
expected  to  receive  benefits. 

(b)  Settlement  loss  results  from  benefit  payments  from  a  non-funded  plan  exceeding  the  sum  of  the  service  cost  and 
interest  cost  for  that  plan  during  the  year. 

(c)  Special  termination  benefits  primarily  related  to  the  U.S.  business  transformation  measures  taken  in  2008. 

(d)  Excludes  pension  expense  for  the  Pizza  Hut  U.K.  pension  plan  of  $4  million  in  2006  related  to  periods  prior  to 
our  acquisition  of  the  remaining  fifty  percent  interest  in  the  unconsolidated  affiliate. 


86 


The  estimated  net  loss  for  the  U.S.  and  International  pension  plans  that  will  be  amortized  from  accumulated  other 
comprehensive  loss  into  net  periodic  pension  cost  in  2009  is  $13  million  and  $2  million,  respectively.  The  estimated  prior 
service  cost  for  the  U.S.  pension  plans  that  will  be  amortized  from  accumulated  other  comprehensive  loss  into  net  periodic 
pension  cost  in  2009  is  $1  million. 

Weighted-average  assumptions  used  to  determine  benefit  obligations  at  the  measurement  dates: 


U.S. 

Pension  Plans 

International  Pension  Plans 

2008 

2007 

2008  2007 

Discount  rate 

6.50% 

6.50% 

5.50% 

5.60% 

Rate  of  compensation  increase 

3.75% 

3.75% 

4.10% 

4.30% 

Weighted-average  assumptions  used  to  determine  the  net  periodic  benefit  cost  for  fiscal  years: 

U.S.  Pension  Plans 

International  Pension  Plans 

2008 

2007 

2006 

2008 

2007 

2006 

Discount  rate 

6.50% 

5.95% 

5.75% 

5.60% 

5.00% 

5.00% 

Long-term  rate  of  return  on  plan 
assets 

8.00% 

8.00% 

8.00% 

7.28% 

7.07% 

6.70% 

Rate  of  compensation  increase 

3.75% 

3.75% 

3.75% 

4.30% 

3.78% 

3.85% 

Our  estimated  long-term  rate  of  return  on  plan  assets  represents  the  weighted-average  of  expected  future  returns  on  the 
asset  categories  included  in  our  target  investment  allocation  based  primarily  on  the  historical  returns  for  each  asset 
category,  adjusted  for  an  assessment  of  current  market  conditions. 

Plan  Assets 

Our  pension  plan  weighted-average  asset  allocations  at  the  measurement  dates,  by  asset  category  are  set  forth  below: 

U.S.  Pension  Plans  International  Pension  Plans 

Asset  Category  2008  2007  2008  2007 

Equity  securities  59%  71%  73%  80% 

Debt  securities  41  29  27  20 

Total  100%  100%  100%  100% 


Our  primary  objectives  regarding  the  Plan’s  assets,  which  make  up  86%  of  total  pension  plan  assets  at  the  2008 
measurement  dates,  are  to  optimize  return  on  assets  subject  to  acceptable  risk  and  to  maintain  liquidity,  meet  minimum 
funding  requirements  and  minimize  plan  expenses.  To  achieve  these  objectives,  we  have  adopted  a  passive  investment 
strategy  in  which  the  asset  performance  is  driven  primarily  by  the  investment  allocation.  Our  target  investment  allocation 
is  65%  equity  securities  and  35%  debt  securities,  consisting  primarily  of  low  cost  index  mutual  funds  that  track  several 
sub-categories  of  equity  and  debt  security  performance.  The  investment  strategy  is  primarily  driven  by  our  Plan’s 
participants’  ages  and  reflects  a  long-term  investment  horizon  favoring  a  higher  equity  component  in  the  investment 
allocation. 

A  mutual  fund  held  as  an  investment  by  the  Plan  includes  YUM  stock  valued  at  less  than  $0.5  million  at  December  27, 
2008  and  September  30,  2007  (less  than  1%  of  total  plan  assets  in  each  instance). 


87 


Benefit  Payments 


The  benefits  expected  to  be  paid  in  each  of  the  next  five  years  and  in  the  aggregate  for  the  five  years  thereafter  are  set 
forth  below: 


2009 

2010 
2011 
2012 
2013 

2014-2018 


U.S. 

Pension  Plans 
$  65 

50 
34 
37 
43 
243 


International 
Pension  Plans 
$  1 
1 
2 
2 
2 
7 


Expected  benefits  are  estimated  based  on  the  same  assumptions  used  to  measure  our  benefit  obligation  on  the 
measurement  date  and  include  benefits  attributable  to  estimated  further  employee  service. 

Postretirement  Medical  Benefits 


Our  postretirement  plan  provides  health  care  benefits,  principally  to  U.S.  salaried  retirees  and  their  dependents,  and 
includes  retiree  cost  sharing  provisions.  During  2001,  the  plan  was  amended  such  that  any  salaried  employee  hired  or 
rehired  by  YUM  after  September  30,  2001  is  not  eligible  to  participate  in  this  plan.  Employees  hired  prior  to  September 
30,  2001  are  eligible  for  benefits  if  they  meet  age  and  service  requirements  and  qualify  for  retirement  benefits.  We  fund 
our  postretirement  plan  as  benefits  are  paid. 

At  the  end  of  both  2008  and  2007,  the  accumulated  postretirement  benefit  obligation  was  $73  million.  The  unrecognized 
actuarial  loss  recognized  in  Accumulated  other  comprehensive  loss  is  $2  million  at  the  end  of  2008  and  $9  million  at  the 
end  of  2007.  The  net  periodic  benefit  cost  recorded  in  2008,  2007  and  2006  was  $10  million,  $5  million  and  $6  million, 
respectively,  the  majority  of  which  is  interest  cost  on  the  accumulated  postretirement  benefit  obligation.  2008  costs 
included  $4  million  of  special  termination  benefits  primarily  related  to  the  U.S.  business  transformation  measures 
described  in  Note  5.  Approximately  $2  million  was  charged  to  retained  earnings  in  2008  related  to  the  SFAS  158 
measurement  date  change.  The  weighted-average  assumptions  used  to  determine  benefit  obligations  and  net  periodic 
benefit  cost  for  the  postretirement  medical  plan  are  identical  to  those  as  shown  for  the  U.S.  pension  plans.  Our  assumed 
heath  care  cost  trend  rates  for  the  following  year  as  of  2008  and  2007  are  7.5%  and  8.0%,  respectively,  both  with  an 
expected  ultimate  trend  rate  of  5.5%  reached  in  2012. 

There  is  a  cap  on  our  medical  liability  for  certain  retirees.  The  cap  for  Medicare  eligible  retirees  was  reached  in  2000  and 
the  cap  for  non-Medicare  eligible  retirees  is  expected  to  be  reached  in  201 1;  once  the  cap  is  reached,  our  annual  cost  per 
retiree  will  not  increase.  A  one-percentage-point  increase  or  decrease  in  assumed  health  care  cost  trend  rates  would  have 
less  than  a  $1  million  impact  on  total  service  and  interest  cost  and  on  the  post  retirement  benefit  obligation.  The  benefits 
expected  to  be  paid  in  each  of  the  next  five  years  are  approximately  $7  million  and  in  aggregate  for  the  five  years 
thereafter  are  $32  million. 

Note  16  -  Stock  Options  and  Stock  Appreciation  Rights 

At  year  end  2008,  we  had  four  stock  award  plans  in  effect:  the  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan  (“1999 
LTIP”),  the  1997  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan  (“1997  LTIP”),  the  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  Restaurant  General  Manager  Stock 
Option  Plan  (“RGM  Plan”)  and  the  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  SharePower  Plan  (“SharePower”).  Under  all  our  plans,  the 
exercise  price  of  stock  options  and  stock  appreciation  rights  (“SARs”)  granted  must  be  equal  to  or  greater  than  the  average 
market  price  or  the  ending  market  price  of  the  Company’s  stock  on  the  date  of  grant. 


Potential  awards  to  employees  and  non-employee  directors  under  the  1999  LTIP  include  stock  options,  incentive  stock 
options,  SARs,  restricted  stock,  stock  units,  restricted  stock  units,  performance  shares  and  performance  units.  Potential 
awards  to  employees  and  non-employee  directors  under  the  1997  LTIP  include  restricted  stock  and  performance  restricted 
stock  units.  Prior  to  January  1,  2002,  we  also  could  grant  stock  options,  incentive  stock  options  and  SARs  under  the  1997 
LTIP.  Through  December  27,  2008,  we  have  issued  only  stock  options  and  performance  restricted  stock  units  under  the 
1997  LTIP  and  have  issued  stock  options,  SARs  and  restricted  stock  units  under  the  1999  LTIP.  While  awards  under  the 
1999  LTIP  can  have  varying  vesting  provisions  and  exercise  periods,  previously  granted  awards  under  the  1997  LTIP  and 
1999  LTIP  vest  in  periods  ranging  from  immediate  to  10  years  and  expire  ten  to  fifteen  years  after  grant. 

Potential  awards  to  employees  under  the  RGM  Plan  include  stock  options  and  SARs.  RGM  Plan  awards  granted  have  a 
four  year  cliff  vesting  period  and  expire  ten  years  after  grant.  Certain  RGM  Plan  awards  are  granted  upon  attainment  of 
performance  conditions  in  the  previous  year.  Expense  for  such  awards  is  recognized  over  a  period  that  includes  the 
performance  condition  period. 

Potential  awards  to  employees  under  SharePower  include  stock  options,  SARs,  restricted  stock  and  restricted  stock  units. 
SharePower  awards  granted  subsequent  to  the  Spin-off  Date  consist  only  of  stock  options  and  SARs  to  date,  which  vest 
over  a  period  ranging  from  one  to  four  years  and  expire  no  longer  than  ten  years  after  grant. 

At  year  end  2008,  approximately  30  million  shares  were  available  for  future  share-based  compensation  grants  under  the 
above  plans. 

We  estimated  the  fair  value  of  each  award  made  during  2008,  2007  and  2006  as  of  the  date  of  grant  using  the  Black- 
Scholes  option-pricing  model  with  the  following  weighted-average  assumptions: 


Risk-free  interest  rate 
Expected  term  (years) 
Expected  volatility 
Expected  dividend  yield 


2008 

3.0% 

6.0 

30.9% 

1.7% 


2007 

4.7% 

6.0 

28.9% 

2.0% 


2006 

4.5% 

6.0 

31.0% 

1.0% 


We  believe  it  is  appropriate  to  group  our  awards  into  two  homogeneous  groups  when  estimating  expected  term.  These 
groups  consist  of  grants  made  primarily  to  restaurant-level  employees  under  the  RGM  Plan,  which  cliff  vest  after  four 
years  and  expire  ten  years  after  grant,  and  grants  made  to  executives  under  our  other  stock  award  plans,  which  typically 
have  a  graded  vesting  schedule  of  25%  per  year  over  four  years  and  expire  ten  years  after  grant.  We  use  a  single- 
weighted  average  expected  term  for  our  awards  that  have  a  graded  vesting  schedule  as  permitted  by  SFAS  123R.  Based 
on  analysis  of  our  historical  exercise  and  post-vesting  termination  behavior  we  have  determined  that  six  years  is  an 
appropriate  term  for  both  awards  to  our  restaurant-level  employees  and  awards  to  our  executives. 

When  determining  expected  volatility,  we  consider  both  historical  volatility  of  our  stock  as  well  as  implied  volatility 
associated  with  our  traded  options. 


89 


A  summary  of  award  activity  as  of  December  27,  2008,  and  changes  during  the  year  then  ended  is  presented  below. 


Outstanding  at  the  beginning  of  the  year 

Granted 

Exercised 

Forfeited  or  expired 
Outstanding  at  the  end  of  the  year 
Exercisable  at  the  end  of  the  year 


W  eighted- Average 
Exercise 

Shares  _ Price _ 


49,137 

$ 

17.57 

6,533 

37.36 

(6,271) 

13.49 

(2,481) 

23.58 

46,918 

$ 

20.55 

30,060 

$ 

14.88 

Weighted- 

Average  Aggregate 

Remaining  Intrinsic  Value 
Contractual  Term  (in  millions) 


5.45  $  501 

4,01  $  463 


The  weighted-average  grant-date  fair  value  of  awards  granted  during  2008,  2007  and  2006  was  $10.91,  $8.85  and  $8.52, 
respectively.  The  total  intrinsic  value  of  stock  options  and  SARs  exercised  during  the  years  ended  December  27,  2008, 
December  29, 2007  and  December  30,  2006,  was  $145  million,  $238  million  and  $215  million,  respectively. 

As  of  December  27,  2008,  there  was  $107  million  of  unrecognized  compensation  cost,  which  will  be  reduced  by  any 
forfeitures  that  occur,  related  to  unvested  awards  that  is  expected  to  be  recognized  over  a  weighted-average  period  of  2.7 
years.  The  total  fair  value  at  grant  date  of  awards  vested  during  2008,  2007  and  2006  was  $57  million,  $58  million  and 
$57  million,  respectively. 

The  total  compensation  expense  for  stock  options  and  SARs  recognized  was  $51  million,  $56  million  and  $60  million  in 
2008,  2007  and  2006,  respectively.  The  related  tax  benefit  recognized  from  this  expense  was  $17  million,  $19  million  and 
$21  million  in  2008,  2007  and  2006,  respectively. 

Cash  received  from  stock  options  exercises  for  2008,  2007  and  2006,  was  $72  million,  $112  million  and  $142  million, 
respectively.  Tax  benefits  realized  on  our  tax  returns  from  tax  deductions  associated  with  stock  options  and  SARs 
exercised  for  2008,  2007  and  2006  totaled  $46  million,  $76  million  and  $68  million,  respectively. 

While  historically  the  Company  has  repurchased  shares  on  the  open  market  to  satisfy  award  exercises,  it  does  not 
currently  plan  to  repurchase  shares  during  2009. 

In  January  2008,  we  granted  an  award  of  187,398  restricted  stock  units  to  our  Chief  Executive  Officer  (“CEO”).  The 
award  was  made  under  the  1999  LTIP.  The  award  vests  after  four  years  and  had  a  market  value  of  $7.0  million  as  of 
January  24,  2008.  The  award  is  being  expensed  over  the  four  year  vesting  period.  The  award  will  be  paid  to  our  CEO  in 
shares  of  YUM  common  stock  six  months  following  his  retirement  provided  that  he  does  not  leave  the  company  before 
the  award  vests.  Total  expense  recorded  in  2008  was  $2  million. 


90 


Note  17  -  Other  Compensation  and  Benefit  Programs 

Executive  Income  Deferral  Program  (the  “EID  Plan”-) 


The  EID  Plan  allows  participants  to  defer  receipt  of  a  portion  of  their  annual  salary  and  all  or  a  portion  of  their  incentive 
compensation.  As  defined  by  the  EID  Plan,  we  credit  the  amounts  deferred  with  earnings  based  on  the  investment  options 
selected  by  the  participants.  These  investment  options  are  limited  to  cash,  phantom  shares  of  our  Common  Stock, 
phantom  shares  of  a  Stock  Index  Fund  and  phantom  shares  of  a  Bond  Index  Fund.  Additionally,  the  EID  Plan  allows 
participants  to  defer  incentive  compensation  to  purchase  phantom  shares  of  our  Common  Stock  and  receive  a  33% 
Company  match  on  the  amount  deferred.  Deferrals  receiving  a  match  are  similar  to  a  restricted  stock  unit  award  in  that 
participants  will  generally  forfeit  both  the  match  and  incentive  compensation  amounts  deferred  if  they  voluntarily  separate 
from  employment  during  a  vesting  period  that  is  two  years.  We  expense  the  intrinsic  value  of  the  match  and,  beginning  in 
2006,  the  incentive  compensation  over  the  requisite  service  period  which  includes  the  vesting  period.  Investments  in 
cash,  the  Stock  Index  fund  and  the  Bond  Index  fund  will  be  distributed  in  cash  at  a  date  as  elected  by  the  employee  and 
therefore  are  classified  as  a  liability  on  our  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets.  We  recognize  compensation  expense  or  income 
for  the  appreciation  or  depreciation,  respectively,  of  these  investments.  We  recognized  compensation  income  of  $4 
million  in  2008  and  compensation  expense  of  $4  million  and  $3  million  in  2007  and  2006,  respectively,  for  losses  and 
earnings  on  these  investments. 

As  investments  in  the  phantom  shares  of  our  Common  Stock  can  only  be  settled  in  shares  of  our  Common  Stock,  we  do 
not  recognize  compensation  expense  for  the  appreciation  or  the  depreciation,  if  any,  of  these  investments.  Deferrals  into 
the  phantom  shares  of  our  Common  Stock  are  credited  to  the  Common  Stock  Account.  As  of  December  27,  2008, 
deferrals  to  phantom  shares  of  our  Common  Stock  within  the  EID  Plan  totaled  approximately  6.2  million  shares.  We 
recognized  compensation  expense  for  amortization  of  the  Company  match  of  $6  million,  $5  million  and  $5  million,  in 
2008,  2007  and  2006,  respectively.  These  expense  amounts  do  not  include  the  salary  or  bonus  actually  deferred  into 
Common  Stock  of  $20  million,  $17  million  and  $16  million  in  2008,  2007  and  2006,  respectively. 

Contributory  401(k)  Plan 

We  sponsor  a  contributory  plan  to  provide  retirement  benefits  under  the  provisions  of  Section  401(k)  of  the  Internal 
Revenue  Code  (the  “401  (k)  Plan”)  for  eligible  U.S.  salaried  and  hourly  employees.  Participants  are  able  to  elect  to 
contribute  up  to  75%  of  eligible  compensation  on  a  pre-tax  basis.  Participants  may  allocate  their  contributions  to  one  or 
any  combination  of  10  investment  options  within  the  401(k)  Plan.  Effective  for  contributions  made  from  and  after  April 
1,  2008,  we  match  100%  of  the  participant’s  contribution  to  the  401(k)  Plan  up  to  6%  of  eligible  compensation.  Prior  to 
April  1,  2008,  we  matched  100%  of  the  participant’s  contribution  to  the  401(k)  Plan  up  to  3%  of  eligible  compensation 
and  50%  of  the  participant’s  contribution  on  the  next  2%  of  eligible  compensation.  We  recognized  as  compensation 
expense  our  total  matching  contribution  of  $16  million  in  2008,  $13  million  in  2007  and  $12  million  in  2006. 


91 


Note  18  -  Shareholders’  Equity 

Under  the  authority  of  our  Board  of  Directors,  we  repurchased  shares  of  our  Common  Stock  during  2008,  2007  and  2006. 
All  amounts  exclude  applicable  transaction  fees. 


Shares  Repurchased  Dollar  Value  of  Shares 

(thousands) _  _ Repurchased 


Authorization  Date 

2008 

2007 

2006 

2008 

2007 

2006 

January  2008 

23,943 

— 

— 

$  802 

$  — 

$  — 

October  2007 

22,875 

11,431 

— 

813 

437 

— 

March  2007 

— 

15,092 

— 

— 

500 

— 

September  2006 

— 

15,274 

1,056 

— 

469 

31 

March  2006 

— 

— 

20,145 

— 

— 

500 

November  2005 

— 

— 

19,121 

— 

— 

469 

Total 

46,818 

41,797 

40,329 

$  l,615(a) 

$  l,406(b) 

$  l,000(c) 

(a)  Amount  excludes  the  effect  of  $13  million  in  share  repurchases  (0.4  million  shares)  with  trade  dates  prior  to  the 
2007  fiscal  year  end  but  cash  settlement  dates  subsequent  to  the  2007  fiscal  year  end. 

(b)  Amounts  excludes  the  effects  of  $17  million  in  share  repurchases  (0.6  million  shares)  with  trade  dates  prior  to 
the  2006  fiscal  year  end  but  cash  settlement  dates  subsequent  to  the  2006  fiscal  year  end  and  includes  the  effect 
of  $13  million  in  share  repurchases  (0.4  million  shares)  with  trade  dates  prior  to  the  2007  fiscal  year  end  but  cash 
settlement  dates  subsequent  to  the  2007  fiscal  year. 

(c)  Amount  includes  effects  of  $17  million  in  share  repurchases  (0.6  million  shares)  with  trade  dates  prior  to  the 
2006  fiscal  year  end  but  cash  settlement  dates  subsequent  to  the  2006  fiscal  year  end. 

Accumulated  Other  Comprehensive  Income  (Loss)  -  Comprehensive  income  is  net  income  plus  certain  other  items  that 
are  recorded  directly  to  shareholders’  equity.  Amounts  included  in  other  accumulated  comprehensive  loss  for  the 
Company’s  derivative  instruments  and  unrecognized  pension  and  post  retirement  losses  are  recorded  net  of  the  related 
income  tax  effects.  Refer  to  Note  15  for  additional  information  about  our  pension  accounting  and  Note  14  for  additional 
information  about  our  derivative  instruments.  The  following  table  gives  further  detail  regarding  the  composition  of  other 
accumulated  comprehensive  income  (loss)  at  December  27,  2008  and  December  29,  2007. 


2008  2007 


Foreign  currency  translation  adjustment 

$ 

(129) 

$ 

94 

Pension  and  post  retirement  losses,  net  of  tax 

(272) 

(64) 

Net  unrealized  losses  on  derivative  instruments,  net  of  tax 

(17) 

(10) 

Total  accumulated  other  comprehensive  income  (loss) 

$ 

(418) 

$ 

20 

92 


Note  19  -  Income  Taxes 


The  details  of  our  income  tax  provision  (benefit)  are  set  forth  below: 


2008 

2007 

2006 

Current:  Federal 

$  168 

$  175 

$  181 

Foreign 

148 

151 

131 

State 

(1) 

(3) 

2 

315 

323 

314 

Deferred:  Federal 

(12) 

(71) 

(33) 

Foreign 

3 

27 

(13) 

State 

10 

3 

16 

1 

(41) 

(30) 

$ 

316 

$  282 

$  284 

The  deferred  tax  provision  includes  $30  million  and  $120  million  of  benefit  in  2008  and  2007,  respectively,  and  $4 
million  of  expense  in  2006  for  changes  in  valuation  allowances  due  to  changes  in  determinations  regarding  the  likelihood 
of  the  use  of  certain  deferred  tax  assets  that  existed  at  the  beginning  of  the  year.  The  deferred  tax  provisions  also  include 
$43  million,  $16  million  and  $72  million  in  2008,  2007  and  2006,  respectively,  for  increases  in  valuation  allowances 
recorded  against  deferred  tax  assets  generated  during  the  year.  Total  changes  in  valuation  allowances,  including  the 
impact  of  foreign  currency  translation  and  other  adjustments,  were  decreases  of  $54  million  and  $37  million  in  2008  and 
2007,  respectively,  and  an  increase  of  $112  million  in  2006.  See  additional  discussion  of  federal  valuation  allowances 
adjustments  in  the  effective  tax  rate  discussion  on  the  following  page. 

The  deferred  foreign  tax  provision  includes  less  than  $1  million,  $17  million  and  $2  million  of  expense  in  2008,  2007  and 
2006  respectively,  for  the  impact  of  changes  in  statutory  tax  rates  in  various  countries.  Additionally,  in  2008,  the  deferred 
foreign  tax  provision  included  $36  million  of  expense  offset  by  the  same  amount  in  the  current  foreign  tax  provision  that 
resulted  from  a  tax  law  change.  The  $17  million  of  expense  for  2007  includes  $20  million  for  the  Mexico  tax  law  change 
enacted  during  the  fourth  quarter  of  2007.  The  2008  deferred  state  tax  provision  includes  $18  million  ($12  million,  net  of 
federal  tax)  of  expense  for  the  impact  associated  with  our  plan  to  distribute  certain  foreign  earnings.  The  2007  deferred 
state  tax  provision  includes  $4  million  ($3  million,  net  of  federal  tax)  of  benefit  for  the  impact  of  state  law  changes.  The 
2006  deferred  state  tax  provision  includes  $12  million  ($8  million,  net  of  federal  tax)  of  expense  for  the  impact  of  state 
law  changes. 


93 


U.S.  and  foreign  income  before  income  taxes  are  set  forth  below: 


2008  2007  2006 

U.S.  $  430  $  527  $  626 

Foreign  _ 850 _  664  482 

$  1.280  $  1,191  $  1.108 


The  above  U.S.  income  includes  all  income  taxed  in  the  U.S.  even  if  the  income  is  earned  outside  the  U.S. 

The  reconciliation  of  income  taxes  calculated  at  the  U.S.  federal  tax  statutory  rate  to  our  effective  tax  rate  is  set  forth 
below: 


2008 

U.S.  federal  statutory  rate  35.0% 

State  income  tax,  net  of  federal  tax  benefit  0.6 

Foreign  and  U.S.  tax  effects  attributable  to  foreign  operations  (14.5) 
Adjustments  to  reserves  and  prior  years  3 . 5 

Repatriation  of  foreign  earnings 
Non-recurring  foreign  tax  credit  adjustments 

Valuation  allowance  additions  (reversals)  0.6 

Other,  net  (0.5) 

Effective  income  tax  rate  24.7% 


2007  2006 

35.0%  35.0% 

1.0  2.0 

(5.7)  (7.8) 

2.6  (3.5) 

(0.4) 
(6.2) 

(9.0)  6.8 

(0-2)  (0-3) 

23.7%  25.6% 


Our  2008  effective  income  tax  rate  was  negatively  impacted  by  lapping  valuation  allowance  reversals  made  in  the  prior 
year  as  discussed  below.  This  negative  impact  was  partially  offset  by  the  reversal  of  foreign  valuation  allowances  in  the 
current  year  associated  with  certain  deferred  tax  assets  that  we  now  believe  are  more  likely  than  not  to  be  utilized  on 
future  tax  returns.  Additionally,  the  effective  tax  rate  was  negatively  impacted  by  the  year-over-year  change  in 
adjustments  to  reserves  and  prior  years  (including  certain  out-of-year  adjustments  that  increased  our  effective  tax  rate  by 
1.8  percentage  points  in  2008).  Benefits  associated  with  our  foreign  and  U.S.  tax  effects  attributable  to  foreign  operations 
positively  impacted  the  effective  tax  rate  as  a  result  of  lapping  2007  expenses  associated  with  the  distribution  of  an 
intercompany  dividend  and  adjustments  to  our  deferred  tax  balances  that  resulted  from  the  Mexico  tax  law  change,  as 
further  discussed  below,  as  well  as  a  higher  percentage  of  our  income  being  earned  outside  the  U.S.  These  benefits  were 
partially  offset  in  2008  by  the  gain  on  the  sale  of  our  interest  in  our  unconsolidated  affiliate  in  Japan  and  expense 
associated  with  our  plan  to  distribute  certain  foreign  earnings.  We  also  recognized  deferred  tax  assets  for  the  net 
operating  losses  generated  by  certain  tax  planning  strategies  implemented  in  2008  included  in  foreign  and  U.S.  tax  effects 
attributable  to  foreign  operations  (1.7  percentage  point  impact).  However,  we  provided  a  full  valuation  allowance  on 
these  assets  as  we  do  not  believe  it  is  more  likely  than  not  that  they  will  be  realized  in  the  future. 

Our  2007  effective  income  tax  rate  was  positively  impacted  by  valuation  allowance  reversals.  In  December  2007,  the 
Company  finalized  various  tax  planning  strategies  based  on  completing  a  review  of  our  international  operations, 
distributed  a  $275  million  intercompany  dividend  and  sold  our  interest  in  our  Japan  unconsolidated  affiliate.  As  a  result, 
in  the  fourth  quarter  of  2007,  we  reversed  approximately  $82  million  of  valuation  allowances  associated  with  foreign  tax 
credit  carryovers  that  are  more  likely  than  not  to  be  claimed  on  future  tax  returns.  In  2007,  benefits  associated  with  our 
foreign  and  U.S.  tax  effects  attributable  to  foreign  operations  were  negatively  impacted  by  $36  million  of  expense 
associated  with  the  $275  million  intercompany  dividend  and  approximately  $20  million  of  expense  for  adjustments  to  our 
deferred  tax  balances  as  a  result  of  the  Mexico  tax  law  change  enacted  during  the  fourth  quarter  of  2007.  These  negative 
impacts  were  partially  offset  by  a  higher  percentage  of  our  income  being  earned  outside  the  U.S.  Additionally,  the 
effective  tax  rate  was  negatively  impacted  by  the  year-over-year  change  in  adjustments  to  reserves  and  prior  years. 


94 


i/. global-reports. c 


Our  2006  effective  income  tax  rate  was  positively  impacted  by  the  reversal  of  tax  reserves  in  connection  with  our  regular 
U.S.  audit  cycle  as  well  as  certain  out-of-year  adjustments  to  reserves  and  accruals  that  lowered  our  effective  income  tax 
rate  by  2.2  percentage  points.  The  reversal  of  tax  reserves  was  partially  offset  by  valuation  allowance  additions  on  foreign 
tax  credits  for  which,  as  a  result  of  the  tax  reserve  reversals,  we  believed  were  not  likely  to  be  utilized  before  they  expired. 
We  also  recognized  deferred  tax  assets  for  the  foreign  tax  credit  impact  of  non-recurring  decisions  to  repatriate  certain 
foreign  earnings  in  2007.  However,  we  provided  full  valuation  allowances  on  such  assets  as  we  did  not  believe  it  was 
more  likely  than  not  that  they  would  be  realized  at  that  time. 

Adjustments  to  reserves  and  prior  years  include  the  effects  of  the  reconciliation  of  income  tax  amounts  recorded  in  our 
Consolidated  Statements  of  Income  to  amounts  reflected  on  our  tax  returns,  including  any  adjustments  to  the  Consolidated 
Balance  Sheets.  Adjustments  to  reserves  and  prior  years  also  includes  changes  in  tax  reserves,  including  interest  thereon, 
established  for  potential  exposure  we  may  incur  if  a  taxing  authority  takes  a  position  on  a  matter  contrary  to  our  position. 
We  evaluate  these  reserves  on  a  quarterly  basis  to  insure  that  they  have  been  appropriately  adjusted  for  events,  including 
audit  settlements  that  we  believe  may  impact  our  exposure. 

The  details  of  2008  and  2007  deferred  tax  assets  (liabilities)  are  set  forth  below: 


2008 

2007 

Net  operating  loss  and  tax  credit  carryforwards 

$ 

256 

$ 

309 

Employee  benefits,  including  share-based  compensation 

329 

209 

Self-insured  casualty  claims 

71 

73 

Lease  related  liabilities 

150 

115 

Various  liabilities 

98 

124 

Deferred  income  and  other 

41 

36 

Gross  deferred  tax  assets 

945 

866 

Deferred  tax  asset  valuation  allowances 

(254) 

(308) 

Net  deferred  tax  assets 

$ 

691 

$ 

558 

Intangible  assets  and  property,  plant  and  equipment 

$ 

(164) 

$ 

(156) 

Lease  related  assets 

(69) 

(41) 

Other 

(134) 

(58) 

Gross  deferred  tax  liabilities 

(367) 

(255) 

Net  deferred  tax  assets  (liabilities) 

$ 

324 

$ 

303 

Reported  in  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  as: 

Deferred  income  taxes  -  current 

$ 

81 

$ 

125 

Deferred  income  taxes  -  long-term 

300 

236 

Accounts  payable  and  other  current  liabilities 

(4) 

(8) 

Other  liabilities  and  deferred  credits 

(53) 

(50) 

$ 

324 

$ 

303 

We  have  not  provided  deferred  tax  on  certain  undistributed  earnings  from  our  foreign  subsidiaries  as  we  believe  they  are 
indefinitely  reinvested.  This  amount  may  become  taxable  upon  an  actual  or  deemed  repatriation  of  assets  from  the 
subsidiaries  or  a  sale  or  liquidation  of  the  subsidiaries.  We  estimate  that  our  total  net  undistributed  earnings  upon  which 
we  have  not  provided  deferred  tax  total  approximately  $1.1  billion  at  December  27,  2008.  A  determination  of  the 
deferred  tax  liability  on  such  earnings  is  not  practicable. 


95 


Foreign  operating  and  capital  loss  carryforwards  totaling  $687  million  and  state  operating  loss  carryforwards  totaling  $1.2 
billion  at  year  end  2008  are  being  carried  forward  in  jurisdictions  where  we  are  permitted  to  use  tax  losses  from  prior 
periods  to  reduce  future  taxable  income.  These  losses  will  expire  as  follows:  $19  million  in  2009,  $126  million  between 
2010  and  2013,  $1.2  billion  between  2014  and  2028  and  $554  million  may  be  carried  forward  indefinitely.  In  addition, 
tax  credits  totaling  $21  million  are  available  to  reduce  certain  federal  and  state  liabilities,  of  which  $13  million  will  expire 
between  2014  and  2028  and  $8  million  may  be  carried  forward  indefinitely. 

Effective  December  31,  2006,  we  adopted  FIN  48  which  requires  that  a  position  taken  or  expected  to  be  taken  in  a  tax 
return  be  recognized  in  the  financial  statements  when  it  is  more  likely  than  not  (i.e.  a  likelihood  of  more  than  fifty  percent) 
that  the  position  would  be  sustained  upon  examination  by  tax  authorities.  A  recognized  tax  position  is  then  measured  at 
the  largest  amount  of  benefit  that  is  greater  than  fifty  percent  likely  of  being  realized  upon  settlement. 

At  year  end  2008,  we  decreased  our  2007  beginning  and  ending  amounts  of  unrecognized  tax  benefits  to  $294  million  and 
$343  million,  respectively.  This  resulted  from  netting,  where  appropriate,  certain  long-term  Deferred  income  tax  assets 
against  unrecognized  tax  benefits  included  as  part  of  Other  liabilities  and  deferred  credits  recorded  on  our  Consolidated 
Balance  Sheet  at  December  29,  2007.  The  Company  had  $296  million  of  unrecognized  tax  benefits  at  December  27, 
2008,  $225  million  of  which,  if  recognized,  would  affect  the  effective  income  tax  rate.  A  reconciliation  of  the  beginning 
and  ending  amount  of  unrecognized  tax  benefits  follows: 


2008  2007 


Beginning  of  Year 

$  343 

$ 

294 

Additions  on  tax  positions  related  to  the  current  year 

53 

105 

Additions  for  tax  positions  of  prior  years 

21 

17 

Reductions  for  tax  positions  of  prior  years 

(110) 

(58) 

Reductions  for  settlements 

(2) 

(6) 

Reductions  due  to  statute  expiration 

(7) 

(ID 

Foreign  currency  translation  adjustment 

(2) 

2 

End  of  Year 

$  296 

$ 

343 

The  major  jurisdictions  in  which  the  Company  files  income  tax  returns  include  the  U.S.  federal  jurisdiction,  China,  the 
United  Kingdom,  Mexico  and  Australia.  As  of  December  27,  2008,  the  earliest  years  that  the  Company  was  subject  to 
examination  in  these  jurisdictions  were  1999  in  the  U.S.,  2005  in  China,  2000  in  the  United  Kingdom,  2001  in  Mexico 
and  2004  in  Australia.  In  addition,  the  Company  is  subject  to  various  U.S.  state  income  tax  examinations,  for  which,  in 
the  aggregate,  we  had  significant  unrecognized  tax  benefits  at  December  27,  2008.  The  Company  believes  that  it  is 
reasonably  possible  that  its  unrecognized  tax  benefits  may  decrease  by  approximately  $60  million  in  the  next  12  months, 
including  approximately  $18  million,  which  if  recognized  upon  audit  settlement  or  statute  expiration,  will  affect  the  2009 
effective  tax  rate.  The  remaining  decrease  in  unrecognized  tax  benefits  relate  to  various  positions,  each  of  which  are 
individually  insignificant. 

I  At  December  27,  2008,  long-term  habilities  of  $229  million,  including  $32  million  for  the  payment  of  accrued  interest  and 
penalties,  are  included  in  Other  liabilities  and  deferred  credits  as  reported  on  the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet.  Total 
accrued  interest  and  penalties  recorded  at  December  27,  2008  were  $49  million.  During  2008,  accrued  interest  and 
penalties  decreased  by  $9  million,  of  which  $7  million  affected  the  2008  effective  tax  rate.  At  December  29,  2007,  long¬ 
term  liabilities  of  $265  million,  including  $51  million  for  the  payment  of  accrued  interest  and  penalties,  are  included  in 
Other  liabilities  and  deferred  credits  as  reported  on  the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet.  Total  accrued  interest  and  penalties 
recorded  at  December  29,  2007  were  $58  million.  During  2007,  accrued  interest  and  penalties  decreased  by  $16  million, 
of  which  $1 1  million  affected  the  2007  effective  tax  rate.  The  Company  recognizes  accrued  interest  and  penalties  related 
to  unrecognized  tax  benefits  as  components  of  its  income  tax  provision. 


96 


i/. global-reports. c 


Note  20  -  Reportable  Operating  Segments 


We  are  principally  engaged  in  developing,  operating,  franchising  and  licensing  the  worldwide  KFC,  Pizza  Hut,  Taco  Bell, 
LJS  and  A&W  concepts.  KFC,  Pizza  Hut,  Taco  Bell,  LJS  and  A&W  operate  throughout  the  U.S.  and  in  108,  96,  16,  6  and 
9  countries  and  territories  outside  the  U.S.,  respectively.  Our  five  largest  international  markets  based  on  operating  profit 
in  2008  are  China,  Asia  Franchise,  Australia,  United  Kingdom,  and  Europe  Franchise.  At  the  end  of  fiscal  year  2008,  we 
had  investments  in  4  unconsolidated  affiliates  in  China  which  operate  KFC  restaurants.  During  2008  the  Company  sold 
its  interest  in  its  unconsolidated  affiliate  in  Japan  (See  Note  5  for  further  discussion)  and  began  consolidating  one 
previously  unconsolidated  affiliate  in  China  (See  Note  5). 

We  identify  our  operating  segments  based  on  management  responsibility.  The  China  Division  includes  mainland  China, 
Thailand,  KFC  Taiwan,  and  YRI  includes  the  remainder  of  our  international  operations.  For  purposes  of  applying  SFAS 
No.  131,  “Disclosure  About  Segments  of  An  Enterprise  and  Related  Information”  (“SFAS  131”)  in  the  U.S.,  we  consider 
LJS  and  A&W  to  be  a  single  operating  segment.  We  consider  our  KFC,  Pizza  Hut,  Taco  Bell  and  LJS/ A&W  operating 
segments  in  the  U.S.  to  be  similar  and  therefore  have  aggregated  them  into  a  single  reportable  operating  segment. 


Revenues 

2008 

2007 

2006 

U.S. 

$ 

5,125 

$ 

5,197 

$ 

5,603 

YRI(a) 

3,026 

3,075 

2,320 

China  Division(a) 

3,128 

2,144 

1,638 

$ 

11,279 

$ 

10,416 

$ 

9,561 

Operating  Profit;  Interest  Expense,  Net;  and 

Income  Before  Income  Taxes 

2008 

2007 

2006 

U.S. 

$ 

694 

$ 

739 

$ 

763 

YRI 

528 

480 

407 

China  Division(b) 

469 

375 

290 

Unallocated  and  corporate  expenses(c'<d) 

(307) 

(257) 

(229) 

Unallocated  Other  income  (expense)<dl(c) 

117 

9 

7 

Unallocated  Refranchising  gain  (loss)(d) 

5 

11 

24 

Operating  Profit 

1,506 

1,357 

1,262 

Interest  expense,  net 

(226) 

(166) 

(154) 

Income  Before  Income  Taxes 

$ 

1,280 

$ 

1,191 

$ 

1,108 

Depreciation  and  Amortization 

2008 

2007 

2006 

U.S. 

$ 

231 

$ 

247 

$ 

259 

YRI 

158 

161 

115 

China  Division 

151 

117 

95 

Corporate 

16 

17 

10 

$ 

556 

$ 

542 

$ 

479 

97 


Capital  Spending 

2008 

2007 

2006 

U.S. 

$ 

349 

$  320 

$ 

299 

YRI 

260 

179 

114 

China  Division 

320 

224 

157 

Corporate 

6 

3 

2 

$ 

935 

$  726 

$ 

572 

Identifiable  Assets 

2008 

2007 

2006 

U.S. 

$ 

2,739 

$  2,884 

$ 

2,909 

YRI® 

1,873 

2,254 

2,100 

China  Division® 

1,395 

1,116 

869 

Corporate® 

520 

934 

490 

$ 

6,527 

$  7,188 

$ 

6,368 

Long-Lived  Assets® 

2008 

2007 

2006 

U.S. 

$ 

2,413 

$  2,595 

$ 

2,604 

YRI® 

1,162 

1,450 

1,357 

China  Division® 

1,012 

757 

595 

Corporate 

63 

73 

84 

$ 

4,650 

$  4,875 

$ 

4,640 

(a)  Includes  revenues  of  $1.2  billion,  $1.3  billion  and  $673  million  for  entities  in  the  United  Kingdom  for  2008, 
2007  and  2006,  respectively.  Includes  revenues  of  $2.8  billion,  $1.9  billion  and  $1.4  billion  in  mainland  China 
for  2008,  2007  and  2006,  respectively. 

(b)  Includes  equity  income  of  unconsolidated  affiliates  of  $40  million,  $47  million  and  $41  million  in  2008,  2007 
and  2006,  respectively,  for  the  China  Division. 

(c)  2008  includes  approximately  $56  million  of  charges  relating  to  U.S.  general  and  administrative  productivity 
initiatives  and  realignment  of  resources  as  well  as  investments  in  our  U.S.  Brands.  See  Note  5. 

(d)  Amounts  have  not  been  allocated  to  the  U.S.,  YRI  or  China  Division  segments  for  performance  reporting 
purposes. 

(e)  2008  includes  a  $100  million  gain  recognized  on  the  sale  of  our  interest  in  our  unconsolidated  affiliate  in  Japan. 
See  Note  5. 

(f)  Includes  investment  in  unconsolidated  affiliates  of  $63  million  and  $64  million  for  2007  and  2006,  respectively, 
for  YRI.  There  was  no  investment  in  unconsolidated  affiliates  for  YRI  in  2008,  as  we  sold  our  interest  in  our 
unconsolidated  affiliate  in  Japan  during  2008.  See  Note  5.  Includes  investment  in  unconsolidated  affiliates  of 
$65  million,  $90  million  and  $74  million  for  2008,  2007  and  2006,  respectively,  for  the  China  Division. 

(g)  Primarily  includes  deferred  tax  assets,  property,  plant  and  equipment,  net,  related  to  our  office  facilities  and  cash. 

(h)  Includes  property,  plant  and  equipment,  net,  goodwill,  and  intangible  assets,  net. 


98 


(i)  Includes  long-lived  assets  of  $602  million,  $843  million  and  $813  million  for  entities  in  the  United  Kingdom  for 
2008,  2007  and  2006,  respectively.  The  2008  decrease  in  long-lived  assets  was  driven  by  the  impact  of  foreign 
currency.  Includes  long-lived  assets  of  $905  million,  $65 1  million  and  $495  million  in  mainland  China  for  2008, 
2007  and  2006,  respectively. 

See  Note  5  for  additional  operating  segment  disclosures  related  to  impairment,  store  closure  (income)  costs  and  the 
carrying  amount  of  assets  held  for  sale. 

Note  21  -  Contingencies 

Insurance  Programs 

We  are  self-insured  for  a  substantial  portion  of  our  current  and  prior  years’  coverage  including  workers’  compensation, 
employment  practices  liability,  general  liability,  automobile  liability,  product  liability  and  property  losses  (collectively, 
“property  and  casualty  losses”).  To  mitigate  the  cost  of  our  exposures  for  certain  property  and  casualty  losses,  we  make 
annual  decisions  to  self-insure  the  risks  of  loss  up  to  defined  maximum  per  occurrence  retentions  on  a  line  by  line  basis  or 
to  combine  certain  lines  of  coverage  into  one  loss  pool  with  a  single  self-insured  aggregate  retention.  The  Company  then 
purchases  insurance  coverage,  up  to  a  certain  limit,  for  losses  that  exceed  the  self-insurance  per  occurrence  or  aggregate 
retention.  The  insurers’  maximum  aggregate  loss  limits  are  significantly  above  our  actuarially  determined  probable 
losses;  therefore,  we  believe  the  likelihood  of  losses  exceeding  the  insurers’  maximum  aggregate  loss  limits  is  remote. 

In  the  U.S.  and  in  certain  other  countries,  we  are  also  self-insured  for  healthcare  claims  and  long-term  disability  for 
eligible  participating  employees  subject  to  certain  deductibles  and  limitations.  We  have  accounted  for  our  retained 
liabilities  for  property  and  casualty  losses,  healthcare  and  long-term  disability  claims,  including  reported  and  incurred  but 
not  reported  claims,  based  on  information  provided  by  independent  actuaries. 

Due  to  the  inherent  volatility  of  actuarially  determined  property  and  casualty  loss  estimates,  it  is  reasonably  possible  that 
we  could  experience  changes  in  estimated  losses  which  could  be  material  to  our  growth  in  quarterly  and  annual  net 
income.  We  believe  that  we  have  recorded  reserves  for  property  and  casualty  losses  at  a  level  which  has  substantially 
mitigated  the  potential  negative  impact  of  adverse  developments  and/or  volatility. 

Legal  Proceedings 

We  are  subject  to  various  claims  and  contingencies  related  to  lawsuits,  real  estate,  environmental  and  other  matters  arising 
in  the  normal  course  of  business.  We  provide  reserves  for  such  claims  and  contingencies  when  payment  is  probable  and 
estimable  in  accordance  with  SFAS  No.  5,  “Accounting  for  Contingencies.” 

On  November  26,  2001,  Kevin  Johnson,  a  former  LJS  restaurant  manager,  filed  a  collective  action  against  LJS  in  the 
United  States  District  Court  for  the  Middle  District  of  Tennessee  alleging  violation  of  the  Fair  Labor  Standards  Act 
(“FLSA”)  on  behalf  of  himself  and  allegedly  similarly-situated  LJS  general  and  assistant  restaurant  managers.  Johnson 
alleged  that  LJS  violated  the  FLSA  by  perpetrating  a  policy  and  practice  of  seeking  monetary  restitution  from  LJS 
employees,  including  Restaurant  General  Managers  (“RGMs”)  and  Assistant  Restaurant  General  Managers  (“ARGMs”), 
when  monetary  or  property  losses  occurred  due  to  knowing  and  willful  violations  of  LJS  policies  that  resulted  in  losses  of 
company  funds  or  property,  and  that  LJS  had  thus  improperly  classified  its  RGMs  and  ARGMs  as  exempt  from  overtime  pay 
under  the  FLSA.  Johnson  sought  overtime  pay,  liquidated  damages,  and  attorneys’  fees  for  himself  and  his  proposed  class. 

LJS  moved  the  Tennessee  district  court  to  compel  arbitration  of  Johnson’s  suit.  The  district  court  granted  LJS’s  motion 
on  June  7, 2004,  and  the  United  States  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Sixth  Circuit  affirmed  on  July  5,  2005. 

On  December  19,  2003,  while  the  arbitrability  of  Johnson’s  claims  was  being  litigated,  former  LJS  managers  Erin  Cole 
and  Nick  Kaufman,  represented  by  Johnson’s  counsel,  initiated  an  arbitration  with  the  American  Arbitration  Association 
(“AAA”)  (the  “Cole  Arbitration”).  The  Cole  Claimants  sought  a  collective  arbitration  on  behalf  of  the  same  putative  class 
as  alleged  in  the  Johnson  lawsuit  and  alleged  the  same  underlying  claims. 


99 


On  June  15,  2004,  the  arbitrator  in  the  Cole  Arbitration  issued  a  Clause  Construction  Award,  finding  that  LJS’s  Dispute 
Resolution  Policy  did  not  prohibit  Claimants  from  proceeding  on  a  collective  or  class  basis.  LJS  moved  unsuccessfully  to 
vacate  the  Clause  Construction  Award  in  federal  district  court  in  South  Carolina.  On  September  19,  2005,  the  arbitrator 
issued  a  Class  Determination  Award,  finding,  inter  alia,  that  a  class  would  be  certified  in  the  Cole  Arbitration  on  an  “opt- 
out”  basis,  rather  than  as  an  “opt-in”  collective  action  as  specified  by  the  FLSA. 

On  January  20,  2006,  the  district  court  denied  LJS’s  motion  to  vacate  the  Class  Determination  Award  and  the  United 
States  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Fourth  Circuit  affirmed  the  district  court’s  decision  on  January  28,  2008.  A  petition  for  a 
writ  of  certiorari  filed  in  the  United  States  Supreme  Court  seeking  a  review  of  the  Fourth  Circuit’s  decision  was  denied  on 
October  7,  2008.  The  parties  participated  in  mediation  on  April  24,  2008,  without  reaching  resolution.  A  second 
mediation  is  scheduled  for  February  28,  2009. 

LJS  expects,  based  on  the  rulings  issued  to  date  in  this  matter,  that  the  Cole  Arbitration  will  more  likely  than  not  proceed 
as  an  “opt-out”  class  action,  rather  than  as  an  “opt-in”  collective  action.  LJS  denies  liability  and  is  vigorously  defending 
the  claims  in  the  Cole  Arbitration.  We  have  provided  for  a  reasonable  estimate  of  the  cost  of  the  Cole  Arbitration,  taking 
into  account  a  number  of  factors,  including  our  current  projection  of  eligible  claims,  the  estimated  amount  of  each  eligible 
claim,  the  estimated  claim  recovery  rate,  the  estimated  legal  fees  incurred  by  Claimants  and  the  reasonable  settlement 
value  of  this  and  other  wage  and  hour  litigation  matters.  However,  in  light  of  the  inherent  uncertainties  of  litigation,  the 
fact-specific  nature  of  Claimants’  claims,  and  the  novelty  of  proceeding  in  an  FLSA  lawsuit  on  an  “opt-out”  basis,  there 
can  be  no  assurance  that  the  arbitration  will  not  result  in  losses  in  excess  of  those  currently  provided  for  in  our 
Consolidated  Financial  Statements. 

On  September  2,  2005,  a  collective  action  lawsuit  against  the  Company  and  KFC  Corporation,  originally  styled  Parler  v. 
Yum  Brands,  Inc.,  d/b/a  KFC,  and  KFC  Corporation,  was  filed  in  the  United  States  District  Court  for  the  District  of 
Minnesota.  Plaintiffs  alleged  that  they  and  other  current  and  former  KFC  Assistant  Unit  Managers  (“AUMs”)  were 
improperly  classified  as  exempt  employees  under  the  FLSA.  Plaintiffs  sought  overtime  wages  and  liquidated  damages. 
On  January  17,  2006,  the  District  Court  dismissed  the  claims  against  the  Company  with  prejudice,  leaving  KFC 
Corporation  as  the  sole  defendant.  Plaintiffs  amended  the  complaint  on  September  8,  2006,  to  add  related  state  law  claims 
on  behalf  of  a  putative  class  of  KFC  AUMs  employed  in  Illinois,  Minnesota,  Nevada,  New  Jersey,  New  York,  Ohio,  and 
Pennsylvania.  On  October  24,  2006,  plaintiffs  moved  to  decertify  the  conditionally  certified  FLSA  action,  and  KFC 
Corporation  did  not  oppose  the  motion.  On  June  4,  2007,  the  District  Court  decertified  the  collective  action  and  dismissed 
all  opt-in  plaintiffs  without  prejudice.  Subsequently,  plaintiffs  filed  twenty-seven  new  cases  around  the  country,  most  of 
which  alleged  a  statewide  putative  collective/class  action.  Plaintiffs  also  filed  324  individual  arbitrations  with  the 
American  Arbitration  Association  (“AAA”).  KFC  filed  a  motion  with  the  Judicial  Panel  on  Multidistrict  Litigation 
(“JPML”)  to  transfer  all  twenty-eight  pending  cases  to  a  single  district  court  for  coordinated  pretrial  proceedings  pursuant 
to  the  Multidistrict  Litigation  (“MDL”)  statute,  28  U.S.C.  §  1407.  KFC  also  filed  a  motion  with  the  Minnesota  District 
Court  to  enjoin  the  324  AAA  arbitrations  on  the  ground  that  Plaintiffs  waived  the  right  to  arbitrate  by  their  participation  in 
the  Minnesota  (Parler)  litigation.  On  January  3,  2008,  the  JPML  granted  KFC’s  motion  to  transfer  all  of  the  pending  court 
cases  to  the  Minnesota  District  Court  for  discovery  and  pre-trial  proceedings.  On  January  4,  2008,  KFC’s  motion  to 
enjoin  the  324  arbitrations  on  the  ground  that  plaintiffs  have  waived  their  right  to  arbitrate  was  granted. 

On  August  30,  2008,  KFC  and  counsel  for  plaintiffs  entered  into  a  settlement  in  principle  to  resolve  this  matter.  On 
November  11,  2008,  the  parties  entered  into  a  formal  Settlement  Agreement  and  Release.  On  November  20,  2008,  the 
court  entered  an  Order  Granting  Final  Judgment.  The  costs  associated  with  the  settlement  did  not  significantly  impact  our 
results  of  operations. 

On  August  4,  2006,  a  putative  class  action  lawsuit  against  Taco  Bell  Corp.  styled  Rajeev  Chhibber  vs.  Taco  Bell  Corn. 
was  filed  in  Orange  County  Superior  Court.  On  August  7,  2006,  another  putative  class  action  lawsuit  styled  Marina 
Puchalski  v.  Taco  Bell  Corn,  was  filed  in  San  Diego  County  Superior  Court.  Both  lawsuits  were  filed  by  a  Taco  Bell 
RGM  purporting  to  represent  all  current  and  former  RGMs  who  worked  at  corporate-owned  restaurants  in  California  from 
August  2002  to  the  present.  The  lawsuits  allege  violations  of  California’s  wage  and  hour  laws  involving  unpaid  overtime 


and  meal  period  violations  and  seek  unspecified  amounts  in  damages  and  penalties.  As  of  September  7,  2006,  both  cases 
have  been  consolidated  in  San  Diego  County.  Discovery  is  underway. 

Based  on  plaintiffs’  revised  class  definition  in  their  class  certification  motion,  Taco  Bell  removed  the  case  to  federal  court 
in  San  Diego  on  August  29,  2008.  Plaintiffs  have  sought  to  remand  the  case  back  to  state  court  and  the  court  took  the 
matter  under  submission  without  a  hearing  on  November  17,  2008. 

Taco  Bell  denies  liability  and  intends  to  vigorously  defend  against  all  claims  in  this  lawsuit.  However,  in  view  of  the 
inherent  uncertainties  of  litigation,  the  outcome  of  this  case  cannot  be  predicted  at  this  time.  Likewise,  the  amount  of  any 
potential  loss  cannot  be  reasonably  estimated. 

On  September  10,  2007,  a  putative  class  action  against  Taco  Bell  Corp.,  the  Company  and  other  related  entities  styled 
Sandrika  Medlock  v.  Taco  Bell  Com.,  was  filed  in  United  States  District  Court,  Eastern  District,  Fresno,  California.  The 
case  was  filed  on  behalf  of  all  hourly  employees  who  have  worked  for  the  defendants  within  the  last  four  years  and  alleges 
numerous  violations  of  California  labor  laws  including  unpaid  overtime,  failure  to  pay  wages  on  termination,  denial  of 
meal  and  rest  breaks,  improper  wage  statements,  unpaid  business  expenses  and  unfair  or  unlawful  business  practices  in 
violation  of  California  Business  &  Professions  Code  §17200.  The  Company  was  dismissed  from  the  case  without 
prejudice  on  January  10,  2008. 

On  March  24,  2008,  plaintiff  filed  a  motion  for  leave  to  file  a  second  amended  complaint  adding  a  nationwide  FLSA 
claim  for  unpaid  overtime.  Taco  Bell  opposed  the  motion  and  on  June  10,  2008  the  court  denied  plaintiff’s  motion  to 
amend.  Discovery  is  underway,  with  pre-certification  discovery  cutoff  set  for  February  20,  2009  and  an  April  20,  2009 
deadline  for  plaintiff  to  file  a  motion  for  class  certification.  A  hearing  on  the  class  certification  motion  has  been 
scheduled  for  July  27, 2009. 

Taco  Bell  denies  liability  and  intends  to  vigorously  defend  against  all  claims  in  this  lawsuit.  However,  in  view  of  the 
inherent  uncertainties  of  litigation,  the  outcome  of  this  case  cannot  be  predicted  at  this  time.  Likewise,  the  amount  of  any 
potential  loss  cannot  be  reasonably  estimated. 

On  June  16,  2008,  a  putative  class  action  lawsuit  against  Taco  Bell  Corp.  and  the  Company  styled  Miriam  Leyva  vs.  Taco 
Bell  Corn.,  et  al„  was  filed  in  Los  Angeles  Superior  Court.  The  case  was  filed  on  behalf  of  Leyva  and  purportedly  all 
other  California  hourly  employees  and  alleges  failure  to  pay  overtime,  failure  to  provide  meal  and  rest  periods,  failure  to 
pay  wages  upon  discharge,  failure  to  provide  itemized  wage  statements,  unfair  business  practices  and  wrongful 
termination  and  discrimination.  This  case  is  very  similar  to  the  Medlock  case;  accordingly,  on  July  3,  2008,  Taco  Bell 
filed  a  notice  of  related  case.  The  Company  was  dismissed  from  the  case  without  prejudice  on  August  20,  2008.  Taco 
Bell  removed  the  case  to  federal  court  in  Los  Angeles  on  January  23,  2009.  Plaintiff  did  not  oppose  removal,  and  the 
parties  stipulated  to  transfer  the  case  to  the  Eastern  District  of  California,  where  the  Medlock  case  is  pending. 

Taco  Bell  denies  liability  and  intends  to  vigorously  defend  against  all  claims  in  this  lawsuit.  However,  in  view  of  the 
inherent  uncertainties  of  litigation,  the  outcome  of  this  case  cannot  be  predicted  at  this  time.  Likewise,  the  amount  of  any 
potential  loss  cannot  be  reasonably  estimated. 

On  April  1 1,  2008,  Lisa  Hardiman  filed  a  Private  Attorneys  General  Act  (“PAGA”)  complaint  in  the  Superior  Court  of  the 
State  of  California,  County  of  Fresno  against  Taco  Bell  Corp.,  the  Company  and  other  related  entities.  This  lawsuit, 
styled  Lisa  Hardiman  vs.  Taco  Bell  Corn.,  et  al„  is  filed  on  behalf  of  Hardiman  individually  and  all  other  aggrieved 
employees  pursuant  to  PAGA.  The  complaint  seeks  penalties  for  alleged  violations  of  California's  Labor  Code.  On  June 
25,  2008,  Hardiman  filed  an  amended  complaint  adding  class  action  allegations  on  behalf  of  hourly  employees  in 
California  very  similar  to  the  Medlock  case,  including  allegations  of  unpaid  overtime,  missed  meal  and  rest  periods, 
improper  wage  statements,  non-payment  of  wages  upon  termination,  unreimbursed  business  expenses  and  unfair  or 
unlawful  business  practices  in  violation  of  California  Business  &  Professions  Code  §17200.  On  July  25,  2008,  Taco  Bell 
removed  the  case  to  the  United  States  District  Court  for  the  Eastern  District  of  California,  and  subsequently  filed  a  notice 
of  related  case.  On  July  31,  2008,  the  case  was  transferred  to  the  same  judge  as  in  the  Medlock  case.  Taco  Bell  then  filed 
a  motion  to  strike  the  PAGA  claims.  A  scheduling  conference  is  scheduled  for  February  27,  2009. 


101 


Taco  Bell  denies  liability  and  intends  to  vigorously  defend  against  all  claims  in  this  lawsuit.  However,  in  view  of  the 
inherent  uncertainties  of  litigation,  the  outcome  of  this  case  cannot  be  predicted  at  this  time.  Likewise,  the  amount  of  any 
potential  loss  cannot  be  reasonably  estimated. 

On  November  5,  2008,  a  putative  class  action  lawsuit  against  Taco  Bell  Corp.  and  the  Company  styled  Loraine  Naranjo 
vs.  Taco  Bell  Com.,  et  al.,  was  filed  in  Orange  County  Superior  Court.  The  case  was  filed  on  behalf  of  Naranjo  and 
purportedly  all  other  California  employees  and  alleges  failure  to  pay  overtime,  failure  to  reimburse  for  business  related 
expenses,  improper  wage  statements,  failure  to  pay  accrued  vacation  wages,  failure  to  pay  minimum  wage  and  unfair 
business  practices.  Taco  Bell  removed  the  case  to  federal  court  on  December  5,  2008.  Plaintiffs  did  not  oppose  removal 
and  agreed  to  transfer  the  case  to  the  Eastern  District  of  California,  where  the  Medlock  case  is  pending.  The  Company 
filed  a  motion  to  dismiss  on  December  15,  2008,  which  was  denied  on  January  20,  2009. 

Taco  Bell  denies  liability  and  intends  to  vigorously  defend  against  all  claims  in  this  lawsuit.  However,  in  view  of  the 
inherent  uncertainties  of  litigation,  the  outcome  of  this  case  cannot  be  predicted  at  this  time.  Likewise,  the  amount  of  any 
potential  loss  cannot  be  reasonably  estimated. 

On  December  21,  2007,  a  putative  class  action  lawsuit  against  KFC  U.S.  Properties,  Inc.  styled  Baskall  v.  KFC  U.S. 
Properties.  Inc.,  was  filed  in  San  Diego  County  Superior  Court  on  behalf  of  all  current  and  former  RGMs,  AUMs  and 
Shift  Supervisors  who  worked  at  KFC's  California  restaurants  since  December  21,  2003.  The  lawsuit  alleges  violations  of 
California’s  wage  and  hour  and  unfair  competition  laws,  including  denial  of  sufficient  meal  and  rest  periods,  improperly 
itemized  pay  stubs,  and  delays  in  issuing  final  paychecks,  and  seeks  unspecified  amounts  in  damages,  injunctive  relief, 
and  attorneys'  fees  and  costs.  A  first  amended  complaint  was  filed  on  February  5,  2008.  KFC  answered  the  amended 
complaint  on  March  21,  2008. 

The  parties  participated  in  mediation  on  February  10,  2009  without  reaching  resolution,  but  plan  to  continue  to  explore 
potential  settlement  options. 

KFC  denies  liability  and  intends  to  vigorously  defend  against  all  claims  in  this  lawsuit.  However,  in  view  of  the  inherent 
uncertainties  of  litigation,  the  outcome  of  this  case  cannot  be  predicted  at  this  time.  Likewise,  the  amount  of  any  potential 
loss  cannot  be  reasonably  estimated. 

On  October  14,  2008,  a  putative  class  action  styled  Kenny  Archila  v.  KFC  U.S.  Properties.  Inc.,  was  filed  in  California 
state  court  on  behalf  of  all  California  hourly  employees  alleging  various  California  Labor  Code  violations,  including  rest 
and  meal  break  violations,  overtime  violations,  wage  statement  violations  and  waiting  time  penalties. 

KFC  removed  the  case  to  the  United  States  District  Court  for  the  Central  District  of  California  on  January  7,  2009.  No 
court  deadlines  have  yet  been  set. 

KFC  denies  liability  and  intends  to  vigorously  defend  against  all  claims  in  this  lawsuit.  However,  in  view  of  the  inherent 
uncertainties  of  litigation,  the  outcome  of  this  case  cannot  be  predicted  at  this  time.  Likewise,  the  amount  of  any  potential 
loss  cannot  be  reasonably  estimated. 

On  December  17,  2002,  Taco  Bell  was  named  as  the  defendant  in  a  class  action  lawsuit  filed  in  the  United  States  District 
Court  for  the  Northern  District  of  California  styled  Moeller,  et  al.  v.  Taco  Bell  Corp.  On  August  4,  2003,  plaintiffs  filed 
an  amended  complaint  that  alleges,  among  other  things,  that  Taco  Bell  has  discriminated  against  the  class  of  people  who 
use  wheelchairs  or  scooters  for  mobility  by  failing  to  make  its  approximately  220  company-owned  restaurants  in 
California  (the  “California  Restaurants”)  accessible  to  the  class.  Plaintiffs  contend  that  queue  rails  and  other  architectural 
and  structural  elements  of  the  Taco  Bell  restaurants  relating  to  the  path  of  travel  and  use  of  the  facilities  by  persons  with 
mobility-related  disabilities  do  not  comply  with  the  U.S.  Americans  with  Disabilities  Act  (the  “ADA”),  the  Unruh  Civil 
Rights  Act  (the  “Unruh  Act”),  and  the  California  Disabled  Persons  Act  (the  “CDPA”).  Plaintiffs  have  requested:  (a)  an 
injunction  from  the  District  Court  ordering  Taco  Bell  to  comply  with  the  ADA  and  its  implementing  regulations;  (b)  that 
the  District  Court  declare  Taco  Bell  in  violation  of  the  ADA,  the  Unruh  Act,  and  the  CDPA;  and  (c)  monetary  relief  under 


the  Unruh  Act  or  CDPA.  Plaintiffs,  on  behalf  of  the  class,  are  seeking  the  minimum  statutory  damages  per  offense  of 
either  $4,000  under  the  Unruh  Act  or  $1,000  under  the  CDPA  for  each  aggrieved  member  of  the  class.  Plaintiffs  contend 
that  there  may  be  in  excess  of  100,000  individuals  in  the  class. 

On  February  23,  2004,  the  District  Court  granted  plaintiffs'  motion  for  class  certification.  The  District  Court  certified  a 
Rule  23(b)(2)  mandatory  injunctive  relief  class  of  all  individuals  with  disabilities  who  use  wheelchairs  or  electric  scooters 
for  mobility  who,  at  any  time  on  or  after  December  17,  2001,  were  denied,  or  are  currently  being  denied,  on  the  basis  of 
disability,  the  full  and  equal  enjoyment  of  the  California  Restaurants.  The  class  includes  claims  for  injunctive  relief  and 
minimum  statutory  damages. 

Pursuant  to  the  parties’  agreement,  on  or  about  August  31,  2004,  the  District  Court  ordered  that  the  trial  of  this  action  be 
bifurcated  so  that  stage  one  will  resolve  plaintiffs’  claims  for  equitable  relief  and  stage  two  will  resolve  plaintiffs’  claims 
for  damages.  The  parties  are  currently  proceeding  with  the  equitable  relief  stage  of  this  action. 

On  May  17,  2007,  a  hearing  was  held  on  plaintiffs’  Motion  for  Partial  Summary  Judgment  seeking  judicial  declaration 
that  Taco  Bell  was  in  violation  of  accessibility  laws  as  to  three  specific  issues:  indoor  seating,  queue  rails  and  door 
opening  force.  On  August  8,  2007,  the  court  granted  plaintiffs’  motion  in  part  with  regard  to  dining  room  seating.  In 
addition,  the  court  granted  plaintiffs’  motion  in  part  with  regard  to  door  opening  force  at  some  restaurants  (but  not  all)  and 
denied  the  motion  with  regard  to  queue  lines. 

The  parties  participated  in  mediation  on  March  25,  2008,  without  reaching  resolution.  A  new  trial  court  judge  was 
assigned  on  April  4,  2008.  The  court  ordered  supplemental  discovery  and  heard  Taco  Bell’s  motion  for  partial  summary 
judgment  regarding  statute  of  limitations  on  November  5,  2008,  which  was  denied.  Cross  motions  for  summary  judgment 
regarding  ADA  issues,  and  cross  motions  for  summary  judgment  regarding  state  law  issues,  are  scheduled  to  be  filed  in 
late  summer,  2009. 

Taco  Bell  has  denied  liability  and  intends  to  vigorously  defend  against  all  claims  in  this  lawsuit.  Taco  Bell  has  taken 
certain  steps  to  address  potential  architectural  and  structural  compliance  issues  at  the  restaurants  in  accordance  with 
applicable  state  and  federal  disability  access  laws.  The  costs  associated  with  addressing  these  issues  have  not,  and  are  not 
expected  to  significantly  impact  our  results  of  operations.  It  is  not  possible  at  this  time  to  reasonably  estimate  the 
probability  or  amount  of  liability  for  monetary  damages  on  a  class  wide  basis  to  Taco  Bell. 

According  to  the  Centers  for  Disease  Control  (“CDC”),  there  was  an  outbreak  of  illness  associated  with  a  particular  strain 
of  E.  coli  0157:H7  in  the  northeast  United  States  during  November  and  December  2006.  Also  according  to  the  CDC,  the 
outbreak  from  this  particular  strain  was  most  likely  associated  with  eating  products  containing  contaminated  shredded 
iceberg  lettuce  at  Taco  Bell  restaurants  in  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  New  York,  and  Delaware.  The  CDC  concluded  that 
the  contamination  likely  occurred  before  the  lettuce  reached  the  Taco  Bell  restaurants  and  that  the  outbreak  ended  on  or 
about  December  6,  2006.  The  CDC  has  stated  that  it  received  reports  of  71  persons  who  became  ill  in  association  with  the 
outbreak  in  the  above-mentioned  area  during  the  above  time  frame,  and  that  no  deaths  have  been  reported. 

On  December  6,  2006,  a  lawsuit  styled  Tyler  Vormittag,  et.  al.  v.  Taco  Bell  Corn,  Taco  Bell  of  America,  Inc,  and  Yum! 
Brands,  Inc,  was  filed  in  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  State  of  New  York,  County  of  Suffolk.  Mr.  Vormittag,  a  minor, 
alleges  he  became  ill  after  consuming  food  purchased  from  a  Taco  Bell  restaurant  in  Riverhead,  New  York,  which  was 
allegedly  contaminated  with  E.  coli  0157:H7.  Subsequently,  thirty-five  other  cases  have  been  filed  naming  the  Company, 
Taco  Bell  Corp.,  Taco  Bell  of  America,  and/or  other  subsidiaries  of  the  Company,  each  alleging  similar  facts  on  behalf  of 
other  customers.  Additionally,  the  Company  has  received  a  number  of  claims  from  customers  who  have  alleged  injuries 
related  to  the  E.  coli  outbreak,  but  have  not  filed  lawsuits. 

According  to  the  allegations  common  to  all  the  Complaints,  each  Taco  Bell  customer  became  ill  after  ingesting 
contaminated  food  in  late  November  or  early  December  2006  from  Taco  Bell  restaurants  located  in  the  northeast  states 
implicated  in  the  outbreak.  The  majority  of  the  implicated  restaurants  are  owned  and  operated  by  Taco  Bell  franchisees. 
The  Company  believes  that  at  a  minimum  it  is  not  liable  for  any  losses  at  these  stores.  Some  of  these  claims  have  been 
settled. 


103 


We  have  provided  for  the  estimated  costs  of  these  claims  and  litigation,  based  on  a  projection  of  potential  claims  and  their 
amounts  as  well  as  the  results  of  settlement  negotiations  in  similar  matters.  But  in  view  of  the  inherent  uncertainties  of 
litigation,  there  can  be  no  assurance  that  the  outcome  of  the  litigation  will  not  result  in  losses  in  excess  of  those  currently 
provided  for  in  our  Consolidated  Financial  Statements. 

On  March  14,  2007,  a  lawsuit  styled  Boskovich  Farms,  Inc,  v.  Taco  Bell  Corn,  and  Does  1  through  100  was  filed  in  the 
Superior  Court  of  the  State  of  California,  Orange  County.  Boskovich  Farms,  a  supplier  of  produce  to  Taco  Bell,  alleges  in 
its  Complaint,  among  other  things,  that  it  suffered  damage  to  its  reputation  and  business  as  a  result  of  publications  and/or 
statements  it  claims  were  made  by  Taco  Bell  in  connection  with  Taco  Bell’s  reporting  of  results  of  certain  tests  conducted 
during  investigations  on  green  onions  used  at  Taco  Bell  restaurants.  The  Company  believes  that  the  Complaint  should 
properly  be  heard  in  an  alternative  dispute  resolution  (“ADR”)  forum  according  to  the  contractual  terms  governing  the 
relationship  of  the  parties.  The  Company  filed  a  motion  to  compel  ADR  and  stay  the  litigation  on  May  1,  2007.  The 
Court  entered  an  order  granting  this  motion  on  June  14,  2007.  Boskovich  filed  a  writ  petition  to  set  aside  the  trial  court’s 
ruling  compelling  ADR;  the  writ  petition  was  denied  in  October  2007.  The  parties  participated  in  mediation  on  April  10, 
2008,  without  reaching  resolution.  An  arbitration  panel  has  been  selected,  and  the  arbitration  is  currently  scheduled  for 
September,  2009.  The  Company  denies  liability  and  intends  to  vigorously  defend  against  all  claims  in  any  arbitration  and 
the  lawsuit.  However,  in  view  of  the  inherent  uncertainties  of  litigation,  the  outcome  of  this  case  cannot  be  predicted  at 
this  time.  Likewise,  the  amount  of  any  potential  loss  cannot  be  reasonably  estimated. 


104 


Note  22  -  Selected  Quarterly  Financial  Data  (Unaudited) 


2008 


First  Second  Third  Fourth 

Quarter_ Quarter_ Quarter_ Quarter_ Total 


Revenues: 

Company  sales 

Franchise  and  license  fees 

Total  revenues 

Restaurant  profit<a) 

Operating  Profit(b) 

Net  income 

Basic  earnings  per  common  share 

Diluted  earnings  per  common  share 
Dividends  declared  per  common  share 

$  2,094 

314 

$  2,323 

330 

$  2,482 

353 

$  2,944 

439 

$  9,843 

1,436 

2,408 

308 

424 

254 

0.52 

0.50 

0.15 

2,653 

311 

315 

224 

0.47 

0.45 

0.19 

2,835 

358 

407 

282 

0.60 

0.58 

2007 

3,383 

401 

360 

204 

0.44 

0.43 

0.38 

11,279 

1,378 

1,506 

964 

2.03 

1.96 

0.72 

First 

Quarter 

Second 

Quarter 

Third 

Quarter 

Fourth 

Quarter 

Total 

Revenues: 

Company  sales 

$  1,942 

$  2,073 

$  2,243 

$  2,842 

$  9,100 

Franchise  and  license  fees 

281 

294 

321 

420 

1,316 

Total  revenues 

2,223 

2,367 

2,564 

3,262 

10,416 

Restaurant  profit(a) 

288 

310 

353 

376 

1,327 

Operating  Profit 

316 

310 

401 

330 

1,357 

Net  income 

194 

214 

270 

231 

909 

Basic  earnings  per  common  share 

0.36 

0.41 

0.52 

0.45 

1.74 

Diluted  earnings  per  common  share 

0.35 

0.39 

0.50 

0.44 

1.68 

Dividends  declared  per  common  share 

— 

0.15 

— 

0.30 

0.45 

(a)  Restaurant  profit  is  defined  as  Company  sales  less  expenses  incurred  directly  by  Company  restaurants  in 
generating  Company  sales.  These  expenses  are  presented  as  subtotals  on  our  Consolidated  Statements  of 
Income. 


(b)  Operating  Profit  includes  a  gain  of  $68  million,  loss  of  $3  million  and  loss  of  $26  million  in  the  first,  second  and 
fourth  quarters  of  2008,  respectively,  related  to  the  gain  on  the  sale  of  our  interest  in  our  Japan  unconsolidated 
affiliate  and  charges  related  to  the  U.S.  business  transformation  measures.  See  Note  5. 


105 


Management’s  Responsibility  for  Financial  Statements 
To  Our  Shareholders: 

We  are  responsible  for  the  preparation,  integrity  and  fair  presentation  of  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements,  related 
notes  and  other  information  included  in  this  annual  report.  The  financial  statements  were  prepared  in  accordance  with 
accounting  principles  generally  accepted  in  the  United  States  of  America  and  include  certain  amounts  based  upon  our 
estimates  and  assumptions,  as  required.  Other  financial  information  presented  in  the  annual  report  is  derived  from  the 
financial  statements. 

We  maintain  a  system  of  internal  control  over  financial  reporting,  designed  to  provide  reasonable  assurance  as  to  the 
reliability  of  the  financial  statements,  as  well  as  to  safeguard  assets  from  unauthorized  use  or  disposition.  The  system  is 
supported  by  formal  policies  and  procedures,  including  an  active  Code  of  Conduct  program  intended  to  ensure  employees 
adhere  to  the  highest  standards  of  personal  and  professional  integrity.  We  have  conducted  an  evaluation  of  the 
effectiveness  of  our  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  based  on  the  framework  in  Internal  Control  -  Integrated 
Framework  issued  by  the  Committee  of  Sponsoring  Organizations  of  the  Treadway  Commission.  Based  on  our 
evaluation,  we  concluded  that  our  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  was  effective  as  of  December  27,  2008.  Our 
internal  audit  function  monitors  and  reports  on  the  adequacy  of  and  compliance  with  the  internal  control  system,  and 
appropriate  actions  are  taken  to  address  significant  control  deficiencies  and  other  opportunities  for  improving  the  system 
as  they  are  identified. 

The  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  have  been  audited  and  reported  on  by  our  independent  auditors,  KPMG  LLP,  who 
were  given  free  access  to  all  financial  records  and  related  data,  including  minutes  of  the  meetings  of  the  Board  of 
Directors  and  Committees  of  the  Board.  We  believe  that  management  representations  made  to  the  independent  auditors 
were  valid  and  appropriate.  Additionally,  the  effectiveness  of  our  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  has  been 
audited  and  reported  on  by  KPMG  LLP. 

The  Audit  Committee  of  the  Board  of  Directors,  which  is  composed  solely  of  outside  directors,  provides  oversight  to  our 
financial  reporting  process  and  our  controls  to  safeguard  assets  through  periodic  meetings  with  our  independent  auditors, 
internal  auditors  and  management.  Both  our  independent  auditors  and  internal  auditors  have  free  access  to  the  Audit 
Committee. 

Although  no  cost-effective  internal  control  system  will  preclude  all  errors  and  irregularities,  we  believe  our  controls  as  of 
December  27,  2008  provide  reasonable  assurance  that  our  assets  are  reasonably  safeguarded. 


Richard  T.  Carucci 
Chief  Financial  Officer 


106 


Item  9. 


Changes  In  and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and  Financial  Disclosure. 


None. 

Item  9A.  Controls  and  Procedures. 

Evaluation  of  Disclosure  Controls  and  Procedures 


The  Company  has  evaluated  the  effectiveness  of  the  design  and  operation  of  its  disclosure  controls  and  procedures 
pursuant  to  Rules  13a- 15(e)  and  15d- 15(e)  under  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934  as  of  the  end  of  the  period  covered 
by  this  report.  Based  on  the  evaluation,  performed  under  the  supervision  and  with  the  participation  of  the  Company’s 
management,  including  the  Chairman,  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  President  (the  “CEO”)  and  the  Chief  Financial  Officer 
(the  “CFO”),  the  Company’s  management,  including  the  CEO  and  CFO,  concluded  that  the  Company’s  disclosure 
controls  and  procedures  were  effective  as  of  the  end  of  the  period  covered  by  this  report. 

Management’s  Report  on  Internal  Control  Over  Financial  Reporting 

Our  management  is  responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  adequate  internal  control  over  financial  reporting,  as 
such  term  is  defined  in  Rules  13a-15(f)  under  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934.  Under  the  supervision  and  with  the 
participation  of  our  management,  including  our  principal  executive  officer  and  principal  financial  officer,  we  conducted 
an  evaluation  of  the  effectiveness  of  our  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  based  on  the  framework  in  Internal 
Control  -  Integrated  Framework  issued  by  the  Committee  of  Sponsoring  Organizations  of  the  Treadway  Commission. 
Based  on  our  evaluation  under  the  framework  in  Internal  Control  -  Integrated  Framework,  our  management  concluded 
that  our  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  was  effective  as  of  December  27,  2008. 

KPMG  LLP,  an  independent  registered  public  accounting  firm,  has  audited  the  consolidated  financial  statements  included 
in  this  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  and  the  effectiveness  of  our  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  and  has  issued 
their  reports,  included  herein. 

Changes  in  Internal  Control 

There  were  no  changes  with  respect  to  the  Company’s  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  or  in  other  factors  that 
materially  affected,  or  are  reasonably  likely  to  materially  affect,  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  during  the  quarter 
ended  December  27,  2008. 

Item  9B.  Other  Information. 

None. 


107 


PART  III 


Item  10.  Directors,  Executive  Officers  and  Corporate  Governance. 

Information  regarding  Section  16(a)  compliance,  the  Audit  Committee  and  the  Audit  Committee  financial  expert,  the 
Company’s  code  of  ethics  and  background  of  the  directors  appearing  under  the  captions  “Stock  Ownership  Information,” 
“Governance  of  the  Company,”  “Executive  Compensation”  and  “Item  1:  Election  of  Directors”  is  incorporated  by 
reference  from  the  Company’s  definitive  proxy  statement  which  will  be  filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Commission  no  later  than  120  days  after  December  27,  2008. 

Information  regarding  executive  officers  of  the  Company  is  included  in  Part  I. 

Item  11.  Executive  Compensation. 

Information  regarding  executive  and  director  compensation  and  the  Compensation  Committee  appearing  under  the 
captions  “Governance  of  the  Company”  and  “Executive  Compensation”  is  incorporated  by  reference  from  the  Company’s 
definitive  proxy  statement  which  will  be  filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  no  later  than  120  days  after 
December  27,  2008. 

Item  12.  Security  Ownership  of  Certain  Beneficial  Owners  and  Management  and  Related  Stockholder 

Matters. 

Information  regarding  equity  compensation  plans  and  security  ownership  of  certain  beneficial  owners  and  management 
appearing  under  the  captions  “Executive  Compensation”  and  “Stock  Ownership  Information”  is  incorporated  by  reference 
from  the  Company’s  definitive  proxy  statement  which  will  be  filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  no  later 
than  120  days  after  December  27,  2008. 

Item  13.  Certain  Relationships  and  Related  Transactions,  and  Director  Independence. 

Information  regarding  certain  relationships  and  related  transactions  and  information  regarding  director  independence 
appearing  under  the  caption  “Governance  of  the  Company”  is  incorporated  by  reference  from  the  Company’s  definitive 
proxy  statement  which  will  be  filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  no  later  than  120  days  after  December 
27,  2008. 

Item  14.  Principal  Accountant  Fees  and  Services. 

Information  regarding  principal  accountant  fees  and  services  and  audit  committee  pre-approval  policies  and  procedures 
appearing  under  the  caption  “Item  2:  Ratification  of  Independent  Auditors”  is  incorporated  by  reference  from  the 
Company’s  definitive  proxy  statement  which  will  be  filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  no  later  than  120 
days  after  December  27,  2008. 


108 


PART  IV 


Item  15.  Exhibits  and  Financial  Statement  Schedules. 

(a)  (1)  Financial  Statements:  Consolidated  financial  statements  filed  as  part  of  this  report  are  listed  under  Part  II, 

Item  8  of  this  Form  10-K. 


(2)  Financial  Statement  Schedules:  No  schedules  are  required  because  either  the  required  information  is  not 
present  or  not  present  in  amounts  sufficient  to  require  submission  of  the  schedule,  or  because  the 
information  required  is  included  in  the  financial  statements  or  the  related  notes  thereto  filed  as  a  part  of 
this  Form  10-K. 

(3)  Exhibits:  The  exhibits  listed  in  the  accompanying  Index  to  Exhibits  are  filed  as  part  of  this  Form  10-K. 
The  Index  to  Exhibits  specifically  identifies  each  management  contract  or  compensatory  plan  required  to 
be  filed  as  an  exhibit  to  this  Form  10-K. 


109 


SIGNATURES 


Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  Section  13  or  15(d)  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  the  registrant  has  duly  caused 
this  Form  10-K  annual  report  to  be  signed  on  its  behalf  by  the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized. 

Date:  February  23,  2009 


YUM!  BRANDS,  INC. 
By:  /s/  David  C.  Novak 


Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  this  annual  report  has  been  signed  below  by  the 
following  persons  on  behalf  of  the  registrant  and  in  the  capacities  and  on  the  dates  indicated. 


Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/  David  C.  Novak 

Chairman  of  the  Board, 

February  23,  2009 

David  C.  Novak 

Chief  Executive  Officer  and  President 
(principal  executive  officer) 

/s/  Richard  T.  Carucci 

Chief  Financial  Officer 

February  23,  2009 

Richard  T.  Carucci 

(principal  financial  officer) 

/s/  Ted  F.  Knopf 

Senior  Vice  President  Finance  and 

February  23,  2009 

Ted  F.  Knopf 

Corporate  Controller 
(principal  accounting  officer) 

/s/  David  W.  Dorman 

Director 

February  23,  2009 

David  W.  Dorman 
/s/  Massimo  Ferragamo 

Director 

February  23,  2009 

Massimo  Ferragamo 
/s/  J.  David  Grissom 

Director 

February  23,  2009 

J.  David  Grissom 
/s/  Bonnie  G.  Hill 

Director 

February  23,  2009 

Bonnie  G.  Hill 

/s/  Robert  Holland,  Jr. 

Director 

February  23,  2009 

Robert  Holland,  Jr. 

/s/  Kenneth  G.  Fangone 

Director 

February  23,  2009 

Kenneth  G.  Fangone 

Is/  Jonathan  S.  Finen 

Director 

February  23,  2009 

Jonathan  S.  Finen 
/s/  Thomas  C.  Nelson 

Director 

February  23,  2009 

Thomas  C.  Nelson 
/s/  Thomas  M.  Ryan 

Director 

February  23,  2009 

Thomas  M.  Ryan 
/s/  Jing-Shyh  S.  Su 

Vice-Chairman  of  the  Board 

February  23,  2009 

Jing-Shyh  S.  Su 

Is/  Jackie  Trujillo 

Director 

February  23,  2009 

Jackie  Trujillo 
/s/  Robert  D.  Walter 

Director 

February  23,  2009 

Robert  D.  Walter 


YUM!  Brands,  Inc. 
Exhibit  Index 
(Item  15) 


Exhibit  Description  of  Exhibits 

Number 


3.1 

Restated  Articles  of  Incorporation  of  YUM  dated  September  12, 2008  (as  filed  herewith). 

3.2 

Amended  and  restated  Bylaws  of  YUM,  which  are  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  3.2  on  Form  8-K  filed  on  May  17, 2002. 

4.1 

10.5 

Indenture,  dated  as  of  May  1, 1998,  between  YUM  and  J.P.  Morgan  Chase  Bank,  National  Association,  successor  in  interest  to  The  First  National  Bank 
of  Chicago,  pertaining  to  7.65%  Senior  Notes  due  May  15, 2008,  8.5%  Senior  Notes  and  8.875%  Senior  Notes  due  April  15, 2006  and  April  15,2011, 
respectively,  and  7.70%  Senior  Notes  due  July  1, 2012,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  4.1  to  YUM’s  Report  on  Form  8-K  filed 
on  May  13, 1998. 

(i)  6.25%  Senior  Notes  due  April  15, 2016  issued  under  the  foregoing  May  1, 1998  indenture,  which  notes  are  incorporated  by  reference 
ftom  Exhibit  4.2  to  YUM’s  Report  on  Form  8-K  filed  on  April  1 7, 2006. 

(ii)  6.25%  Senior  Notes  due  March  15, 2018  issued  under  the  foregoing  May  1, 1998  indenture,  which  notes  are  incorporated  by  reference 
from  Exhibit  4.2  to  YUM’s  Report  on  Form  8-K  filed  on  October  22, 2007. 

(iii)  6.875%  Senior  Notes  due  November  15,2037  issued  under  the  foregoing  May  1, 1998  indenture,  which  notes  are  incorporated  by 
reference  from  Exhibit  4.3  to  YUM’s  Report  on  Form  8-K  filed  on  October  22, 2007. 

Amended  and  Restated  Sales  and  Distribution  Agreement  between  AmeriServe  Food  Distribution,  Inc.,  YUM,  Pizza  Hut,  Taco  Bell  and  KFC,  effective 
as  of  November  1, 1998,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10  to  YUM’s  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended 
December  26,  1998,  as  amended  by  the  First  Amendment  thereto,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.5  to  YUM’s  Annual 
Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  30, 2000. 

10.6 

Amended  and  Restated  Credit  Agreement,  dated  November  29,  2007  among  YUM,  the  lenders  party  thereto,  JP  Morgan  Chase  Bank,  N.A.,  as 
Administrative  Agent,  J.P.  Morgan  Securities  Inc.  and  Citigroup  Global  Markets  Inc.,  as  Lead  Arrangers  and  Bookrunners  and  Citibank  N.A.,  as 
Syndication  Agent,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.6  to  YUM’s  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended 
December  29, 2007. 

10.7f 

YUM  Director  Deferred  Compensation  Plan,  as  effective  October  7,  1997,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.7  to  YUM’s 
Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  27, 1997. 

10.8f 

YUM  1997  Long  Term  Incentive  Plan,  as  effective  October  7,  1997,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.8  to  YUM’s  Annual 
Report  onForm  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  27, 1997. 

10.9| 

YUM  Executive  Incentive  Compensation  Plan,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  A  of  YUM’s  Definitive  Proxy  Statement  on 
Form  DEF  14A  for  the  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders  held  on  May  20, 2004. 

Knot 

YUM  Executive  Income  Deferral  Program,  as  effective  October  7,  1997,  and  as  amended  through  May  16,  2002,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by 
reference  from  Exhibit  10.10  to  YUM’s  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  31, 2005. 

10.13) 

YUM  Pension  Equalization  Plan,  as  effective  October  7, 1997,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.14  to  YUM’s  Annual  Report 
on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  27, 1997. 

10.16 

Form  of  Directors’  Indemnification  Agreement,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.17  to  YUM’s  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K 
for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  27, 1997. 

10.17) 

Amended  and  restated  form  of  Severance  Agreement  (in  the  event  of  a  change  in  control),  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.17 
to  YUM’s  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  30, 2000. 

10.18) 

YUM  Long  Term  Incentive  Plan,  as  Amended  through  the  Third  Amendment,  as  effective  May  15  2008,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference 
from  Appendix  I  to  YUM’s  Definitive  Proxy  Statement  on  Form  DEF  14A  for  the  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders  held  on  May  15, 2008. 

10.19) 

Employment  Agreement  between  YUM  and  Christian  L.  Campbell,  dated  as  of  September  3,  1997,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from 
Exhibit  10.19to  YUM’s  Annual  Report  onForm  10-K  for  fiscal  year  ended  December  26, 1998. 

111 


10.20  Amended  and  Restated  YUM  Purchasing  Co-op  Agreement,  dated  as  of  August  26, 2002,  between  YUM  and  the  Unified  Foodservice  Purchasing  Co-op, 

LLC,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.20  to  YUM’s  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  28, 2002. 

10.22f  YUM  Restaurant  General  Manager  Stock  Option  Plan,  as  effective  April  1, 1999,  and  as  amended  through  June  23, 2003,  which  is  incorporated  herein 

by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.22  to  YUM’s  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  31, 2005. 

10.23t  YUM  SharePower  Plan,  as  effective  October  7, 1997,  and  as  amended  through  June  23, 2003,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit 

10.23  to  YUM’s  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  3 1, 2005. 

10.24f  Employment  agreement  between  YUM  and  David  C.  Novak,  dated  September  24, 2004,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.24 

on  Form  8-K  filed  on  September  24, 2004. 

10.25t  Form  of  YUM  Director  Stock  Option  Award  Agreement,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.25  to  YUM’s  Quarterly  Report  on 

Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter  ended  September  4, 2004. 

1 0.26f  Form  of  YUM  1999  Long  Term  Incentive  Plan  Award  Agreement,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.26  to  YUM’s  Quarterly 

Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter  ended  September  4, 2004. 


10.27t  YUM!  Brands,  Inc.  International  Retirement  Plan,  as  in  effect  January  1, 2005,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.27  to  YUM’s 

Annual  Report  on  Form  1 0-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  25, 2004. 

10.28f  Letter  of  Understanding,  dated  July  13,  2004,  by  and  between  the  Company  and  Samuel  Su,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit 

10.28  to  YUM’s  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  25, 2004. 

10.29f  Form  of  1999  Long  Term  Incentive  Plan  Award  Agreement  (Stock  Appreciation  Rights)  which  is  incorporated  by  reference  from  Exhibit  99.1  to 

YUM’s  Report  on  Form  8-K  as  filed  on  January  30, 2006. 

10.30  Amended  and  Restated  Credit  Agreement,  dated  November  29, 2007,  among  YUM,  the  lenders  party  thereto,  Citigroup  Global  Markets  Ltd.  and  J.P. 

Morgan  Securities  Inc.,  as  Lead  Arrangers  and  Bookrunners,  and  Citigroup  International  Pic  and  Citibank,  N.A.,  Canadian  Branch,  as  Facility  Agents, 
which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.30  to  YUM’s  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  29, 2007. 


10.31f  Severance  Agreement  (in  the  event  of  change  in  control)  for  Emil  Brolick,  dated  as  of  February  15,  2001,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference 

from  Exhibit  10.3 1  to  YUM’s  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  30, 2006. 

10.32t  YUM!  Brands  Leadership  Retirement  Plan,  as  in  effect  January  1,  2005,  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.32  to  YUM’s 

Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter  ended  March  24, 2007. 

10.33t  1999  Long  Term  Incentive  Plan  Award  (Restricted  Stock  Unit  Agreement)  by  and  between  the  Company  and  David  C.  Novak,  dated  as  of  January  24, 2008, 

which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.33  to  YUM’s  Annual  Report  on  Form  1 0-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  29, 2007. 

10.34  Credit  Agreement,  dated  July  1 1, 2008,  among  YUM,  and  the  lenders  party  thereto,  JPMorgan  Chase  Bank,  N.A.,  as  Administrative  Agent,  J.P.  Morgan 

Securities  Inc.  as  Lead  Arranger  and  Sole  Bookrunner  and  Bank  of  America,  N.A.,  as  Syndication  Agent,  which  is  incorporated  by  reference  from 
Exhibit  10.34  to  YUM’s  Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter  ended  June  14,2008. 

12. 1  Computation  of  ratio  of  earnings  to  fixed  charges. 

21.1  Active  Subsidiaries  ofYUM. 

23.1  Consent  of  KPMG  LLP. 

31-1  Certification  of  the  Chairman,  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  President  pursuant  to  Rule  13a-14(a)  of  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  as  adopted 

pursuant  to  Section  302  of  the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  of 2002. 

31.2  Certification  of  the  Chief  Financial  Officer  pursuant  to  Rule  13a-14(a)  of  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  as  adopted  pursuant  to  Section  302  of  the 
Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  of 2002. 

32.1  Certification  of  the  Chairman,  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  President  pursuant  to  18  U.S.C.  Section  1350,  as  adopted  pursuant  to  Section  906  of  the 
Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  of 2002. 

32.2  Certification  of  the  Chief  Financial  Officer  pursuant  to  18  U.S.C.  Section  1350,  as  adopted  pursuant  to  Section  906  of  the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  of 2002. 


112 


(This  page  has  been  left  blank  intentionally.) 


Supplement  to  Yum!  Brands,  Inc.  Annual  Report  to 
Shareholders 

On  May  5,  2008,  David  Novak,  Yum!  Brands,  Inc. 
Chairman  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  submitted  a 
certification  to  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange  (the  "NYSE") 
as  required  by  Section  303 A.  12(a)  of  the  NYSE  Listed 
Company  Manual.  This  certification  indicated  that  Mr.  Novak 
was  not  aware  of  any  violations  by  the  Company  of  NYSE 
Corporate  Governance  listing  standards. 

In  connection  with  the  filing  of  the  Company's  Form  10-K 
for  the  year  ended  December  27,  2008,  the  Company  has 
included  as  exhibits  certifications  signed  by  Mr.  Novak  and  Mr. 
Richard  Carucci,  Chief  Financial  Officer,  pursuant  to  Rule  13a- 
14(a)  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  as  adopted 
pursuant  to  Section  302  of  the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  of  2002. 
These  statements  are  required  by  the  NYSE  as  part  of  the 
Company’s  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders. 

Shareholder  Information 


Inquiries  Regarding  Your  YUM!  Holdings 
REGISTERED  SHAREHOLDERS  (those  who  hold  YUM 
shares  in  their  own  names)  should  address  communications 
concerning  statements,  address  changes,  lost  certificates  and  other 
administrative  matters  to: 

American  Stock  Transfer  &  Trust  Company 

59  Maiden  Lane 

Plaza  Level 

New  York,  NY  10038 

Phone:  (888)  439-4986 

International:  (718)  921-8124 


Shareholder  Coordinator 
Yum!  Brands,  Inc. 

1441  Gardiner  Lane 
Louisville,  KY  40213 
Phone:  (888)  298-6986 
E-mail:  vum.mvestor@vum.com 

In  all  correspondence  or  phone  inquiries,  please  provide  your 
name,  your  Social  Security  Number,  and  your  YUM  account 
number  if  you  know  it. 

REGISTERED  SHAREHOLDERS  can  access  their  accounts 
and  complete  the  following  functions  online  at  the  Web  site  of 
American  Stock  Transfer  &  Trust  ("AST"):  www.amstock.com. 

•  Access  account  balance  and  other  general  account 
Information 

•  Change  an  account's  mailing  address 

•  View  a  detailed  list  of  holdings  represented  by 
certificates  and  the  identifying  certificate  numbers 

•  Request  a  certificate  for  shares  held  by  AST 

•  Replace  a  lost  or  stolen  certificate 

•  Retrieve  a  duplicate  Form  1099-B 

•  Purchase  shares  of  YUM  through  the  Company's  Direct 
Stock  Purchase  Plan 

•  Sell  shares  held  by  AST 


Access  accounts  online  at  the  following  URL: 
https://secure.amstock.com/Shareholder/sh_login.asp.  Your 
account  number  and  Social  Security  Number  are  required.  If  you 
do  not  know  your  account  number,  please  call  AST  at  (888)  439- 
4986  or  YUM  Shareholder  Coordinator  at  (888)  298-6986. 

BENEFICIAL  SHAREHOLDERS  (those  who  hold  YUM 
shares  in  the  name  of  a  bank  or  broker)  should  direct 
communications  about  all  administrative  matters  related  to  their 
accounts  to  their  stockbroker. 

YUMBUCKS  PARTICIPANTS  (employees  with 
YUMBUCKS  options  and  stock  appreciation  rights)  should 
address  all  questions  regarding  your  account,  outstanding 
options/stock  appreciation  rights  or  shares  received  through 
option/stock  appreciation  right  exercises  to: 

Merrill  Lynch 
Equity  Award  Services 
1400  Merrill  Lynch  Drive 
Mail  Stop  #04-BIS-PRO 
Pennington,  NJ  08534 

Phone:  (888)  986-4321  (U.S.A.,  Puerto  Rico  and  Canada) 
(609)  818-8156  (all  other  locations) 

In  all  correspondence,  please  provide  your  account  number  (for 
U.S.  citizens,  this  is  your  Social  Security  Number),  your  address, 
your  telephone  number  and  mention  YUMBUCKS.  For 
telephone  inquiries,  please  have  a  copy  of  your  most  recent 
statement  available. 

EMPLOYEE  BENEFIT  PLAN  PARTICIPANTS 

Capital  Stock  Purchase  Program  . (888)  439-4986 

YUM  Savings  Center  . (888)  875-4015 

YUM  Savings  Center . (617)  847- 1013  (outside  U.S.) 

P.O.  Box  5166 
Boston,  MA  02206-5166 

Please  have  a  copy  of  your  most  recent  statement  available  when 
calling.  Press  0#0#  for  a  customer  service  representative  and  give 
the  representative  the  name  of  the  plan. 

Shareholder  Services 

DIRECT  STOCK  PURCHASE  PLAN  A  prospectus  and  a 
brochure  explaining  this  convenient  plan  are  available  from  our 
transfer  agent: 

American  Stock  Transfer  &  Trust  Company 

P.O.  Box  922 

Wall  Street  Station 

New  York,  NY  10269-0560 

Attn:  DRIP  Dept. 

Phone:  (888)  439-4986 


FINANCIAL  AND  OTHER  INFORMATION 

Securities  analysts,  portfolio  managers,  representatives  of 
financial  institutions  and  other  individuals  with  questions 
regarding  Yum!  Brands'  performance  are  invited  to  contact: 

Tim  Jerzyk 

Senior  Vice  President,  Investor  Relations/Treasurer 
Yum!  Brands,  Inc. 

1441  Gardiner  Lane 
Louisville,  KY  40213 
Phone:  (502)  874-8006 

INDEPENDENT  AUDITORS 
KPMG  LLP 

400  West  Market  Street,  Suite  2600 
Louisville,  KY  40202 
Phone:  (502)  587-0535 

STOCK  TRADING  SYMBOL-YUM 

The  New  York  Stock  Exchange  is  the  principal  market  for 
YUM  Common  Stock. 

Franchise  Inquiries 

DOMESTIC  FRANCHISING  INQUIRY  PHONE  LINE 

(866)  2YUMYUM  (298-6986) 

INTERNATIONAL  FRANCHISING  INQUIRY 
PHONE  LINE 

(972)  338-8100  ext.  4480 
ONLINE  FRANCHISE  INFORMATION 

http://www.vum.com/lfanchising/default.asp 

Yum!  Brands'  Annual  Report  contains  many  of  the  valuable 
trademarks  owned  and  used  by  Yum!  Brands  and  subsidiaries  and 
affiliates  in  the  United  States  and  worldwide. 


Board  of  Directors 


Senior  Officers 


i/. global-reports. c 


We  trust  in  positive  intentions  and  believe  everyone  has  the  potential  to  make 
a  difference.  We  actively  seek  diversity  in  others  to  expand  our  thinking  and 
make  the  best  decision.  We  coach  and  support  every  individual  to  grow  to 
their  full  capability. 

we  are  customer  maniacs 

Customers  rule.  Every  customer  sees  it,  feels  it  and  knows  it  in  every  restaurant. 
We  make  sure  we  have  great  RGMs  who  build  great  teams.  100%  CHAMPS  with 
a  Yes  Attitude  is  the  expectation. 

go  for  breakthrough 

We  begin  by  asking  ourselves,  "What  can  I  do  NOW  to  get  breakthrough  results 
in  my  piece  of  Yum?!"  Our  intentionality  drives  step  change  thinking.  We  imagine 
how  big  something  can  be  and  work  future-back,  going  full  out  with  positive  energy 
and  personal  accountability  to  make  it  happen. 

build  know  how 

We  grow  by  being  avid  learners,  pursuing  knowledge  and  best  practices  inside 
and  outside  our  company.  We  seek  truth  over  harmony  every  step  of  the  way. 

We  consistently  drive  outstanding  execution  by  scaling  our  learnings  into 
process  and  tools  around  what  matters  most.  Breakthroughs  come  when 
we  get  people  with  knowledge  thinking  creatively. 

take  the  hill  teamwc >r  k 

We  team  together  to  drive  action  versus  activity.  We  discuss  the  undiscussable, 
always  promoting  healthy  debate  and  healthy  decisions.  Our  relationships  allow 
us  to  ask  the  earth  of  each  other.  We  make  specific  verbal  contracts  to  get  big 
things  done  with  urgency  and  excellence. 

recognize!  recognize!  recognize! 

We  attract  and  retain  the  best  people  and  inspire  greatness  by  being  world 
famous  for  recognition.  We  love  celebrating  the  achievement  of  others  and 
have  lots  of  fun  doing  it! 


ALONE  WE’RE  DELICIOUS. 

TOGETHER  WE’RE  YUM! 


WWW.YUM.COM/ANNUALREPORT 


