<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-8.1
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>f73151a2ex8-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 8.1
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                     EXHIBIT 8.1
                                                         (Draft of June 4, 2001)


                                 _________, 2001

Chevron Corporation
575 Market Street, 26th Floor
San Francisco, CA  94105

Ladies and Gentlemen:

        We are acting as special tax counsel to Chevron Corporation, a Delaware
corporation ("Chevron"), in connection with the transaction contemplated by the
Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of October 15, 2000 (the "Merger
Agreement"), by and among Chevron, Texaco Inc., a Delaware corporation
("Texaco"), and Keepep Inc., a Delaware corporation and directly-owned
subsidiary of Chevron ("Keepep").

        In this capacity, we have participated in the preparation of a
registration statement on Form S-4 filed with the Securities Exchange Commission
on ________, 2001, pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including the Joint Proxy
Statement/Prospectus of Chevron and Texaco, dated ______, 2001 (the "Proxy
Statement"). We have examined the Merger Agreement, the Proxy Statement, the
representation letters of Chevron and Texaco, both dated ______, 2001, which
have been delivered to us for purposes of this opinion (the "Officers'
Certificates"), and such other documents and corporate records as we have deemed
necessary or appropriate for purposes of this opinion. In addition, we have
assumed with your consent that (i) the merger of Keepep with and into Texaco
(the "Merger") will be consummated in the manner contemplated in the Proxy
Statement and in accordance with the provisions of the Merger Agreement, (ii)
the statements concerning the Merger set forth in the Proxy Statement and the
other documents referred to herein are and, as of the effective time of the
Merger, will be, true, accurate, and complete, (iii) the representations and
other statements set forth in each of the Officer's Certificates are and, as of
the effective time of the Merger, will be, true, accurate, and complete, (iv)
any representation or other statement in the Officers' Certificates or the other
documents referred to herein made "to the best of the knowledge" or similarly
qualified is and, at the effective time of the Merger, will be, in each case,
correct without such qualification, (v) no actions have been (or will be) taken
that are inconsistent with any representation or other statement contained in
the Officers' Certificates, and (vi) original documents (including signatures)
are authentic, documents submitted to us as copies conform to the original
documents, and there has been (or will be, by the effective time of the Merger)
due execution and delivery of all documents where due execution and delivery are
prerequisites to the effectiveness thereof. Other than obtaining the
representations set forth in the Officers' Certificates, we have not
independently verified any factual matters in connection with, or apart from,
our preparation of this opinion. Accordingly, our opinion does not take into
account any matters not set forth herein that might have been disclosed by
independent verification. In the course of preparing our opinion, nothing has
come to our attention that would lead us to believe that any of the facts,
representations or other information on which we have relied in rendering our

<PAGE>   2
Chevron Corporation
________, 2001
Page 2



opinion is incorrect.

        Based on the foregoing, and subject to the assumptions, exceptions,
limitations, and qualifications set forth herein, it is our opinion that the
Merger will qualify as a reorganization described in Section 368(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and that Chevron,
Texaco, and Keepep will each be a party to that reorganization within the
meaning of Section 368(b) of the Code. Accordingly, for U.S. federal income tax
purposes, it is our opinion that:

                (i) holders of Chevron stock will not recognize any gain or loss
        as a result of the Merger;

                (ii) holders of shares of Texaco stock will (1) not recognize
        any gain or loss as a result of the exchange of their shares of Texaco
        stock for ChevronTexaco common stock in the Merger, except with respect
        to cash received from the sale of fractional shares of ChevronTexaco
        common stock, (2) have a tax basis in the ChevronTexaco common stock
        received in the Merger equal to the tax basis of the Texaco stock
        surrendered in the Merger less any tax basis of the Texaco stock
        surrendered that is allocable to fractional shares of ChevronTexaco
        common stock for which cash is received, and (3) have a holding period
        with respect to the ChevronTexaco common stock received in the Merger
        that includes the holding period of the Texaco stock surrendered in the
        Merger, if the holder of Texaco stock held such stock as a capital asset
        within the meaning of Section 1221 of the Code;

                (iii) to the extent that a holder of shares of Texaco stock
        receives cash from the sale of a fractional share of ChevronTexaco
        common stock, the holder will be required to recognize gain or loss for
        federal income tax purposes, measured by the difference between the
        amount of cash received and the portion of the tax basis of the holder's
        shares of Texaco stock allocable to the fractional share of
        ChevronTexaco common stock, which gain or loss will be capital gain or
        loss if the holder of Texaco stock held such stock as a capital asset
        within the meaning of Section 1221 of the Code and will be long-term
        capital gain or loss if the share of Texaco stock exchanged for the
        fractional share of ChevronTexaco common stock was held continuously for
        more than one year at the Effective Time; and

                (iv) none of Chevron, Texaco, or Keepep will recognize gain or
        loss as a result of the Merger.

        The preceding are the material U.S. federal income tax consequences of
the Merger. However, our opinion does not address U.S. federal income tax
consequences that may vary with, or are contingent upon, a shareholder's
individual


<PAGE>   3
Chevron Corporation
________, 2001
Page 3



circumstances. In addition, our opinion does not address any non-income tax or
any foreign, state, or local tax consequences of the Merger.

        This opinion expresses our views only as to U.S. federal income tax laws
in effect as of the date hereof. It represents our best legal judgment as to the
matters addressed herein, but is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or
the courts. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that this opinion, if
contested, would be sustained by a court. Furthermore, the authorities on which
we rely are subject to change either prospectively or retroactively, and any
such change, or any variation or difference in the facts from those on which we
rely and assume as correct, as set forth above, might affect the conclusions
stated herein. Nevertheless, by rendering this opinion, we undertake no
responsibility to advise you of any changes or new developments in U.S. federal
income tax laws or the application or interpretation thereof.

        This opinion is intended solely for your use and may not be relied on by
any other person without our express written permission. We consent to the
filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Proxy Statement and to the use of
our name under the headings "THE MERGER - Material Federal Income Tax
Consequences of the Merger" and "LEGAL MATTERS" in the Proxy Statement. In
giving this consent, we do not concede that we are experts within the meaning of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations thereunder,
or that this consent is required by Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended.


                                                     Very truly yours,



                                                     McDermott, Will & Emery
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
