| FILED 
83-1493 
. MAR 10 1904 
ALEXANDER L, STEVAS, 
CLERK 
In THE 
Supreme Court of the Bnited States 
Octossr Term, 1983 
No: 
GENERAL HOSPITALS OF HUMANA, INC., 
Petitioner, 
Vv. 
ARKANSAS STATEWIDE HEALTH COORDINATING 
CouNCILL, ef ai., 
Respondents. 
PETITION FOR A WRIT OF CERTIORARI 
TO THE SUPREME COURT 
OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS 


Lee CALLIGARO 

Tuomas H. Brock 

Casson, CALLIGARO & MUTRYN 
900 Watergate Office Building 
2600 Virginia Ave., N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20037 


Rosert D. Sarru, III 
Georce O. JERNIGAN, Jr. 
SMITH, JERNIGAN & SMITH 
312 South Pulaski 

Little Rock, AR 72201 


Counsel for Petitioners 


PASDICK WASHBISTORM 0.C - 1601 M OAK CTRERT AMLMOGTOM VA 22980— (78S) 8E2-0009 


: « 
S S37 > op Galt. Meee ae a oe a 


QUESTIONS PRESENTED 


I. Whether Congress intended, in the National Health 
Planning and Resources Development Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 
$$300k ef seg., to prohibit the states from approving the 
construction of needed hospital beds solely because those beds 
might exceed certain general numerical guidelines suggested by 
subsequent federal agency regulations. . 

Il. Whether Congress intended, in the National Health 
Planning and Resources Development Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 
$$300k ef seg., to delegate effective decision-making authority 
for health planning to citizen and industry advisory panels 
(Health Systems Agencies and Statewide Health Coordinating 
Councils) rather than to the State Health Planning and Devel- 
opment Agency, required by the Act to be an agency of state 
government, and whether such a delegation would be con- 

Ill. Whether the Arkansas Supreme Court, upon formu- 
lating a new legal standard for evaluating petitioner’s certificate 
of need application, denied petitioner due process of law as 
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment by failing to re- 
mand the litigation so that petitioner could have an opportunity 
to present evidence under the newly formulated standard. 


PARTIES TO THE PROCEEDING 


In addition to petitioner General Hospitals of Humana, 
Inc.,* the other parties that appeared as appellees before the 
Arkansas Supreme Court included the Arkansas State Health 
Planning and Development Agency, the Division of Social 
Services of the Arkansas Department of Human Services, and 
Mr. Ivan H. Smith, the Director of Legal Services. of the 
Division of Social Services. These parties supported the 
issuance of a certificate of need to General Hospitals of 
Humana, Inc. 

In addition to the Arkansas Statewide Health Coordinating 
Council, the other parties that appeared as appellants before 
the Arkansas Supreme Court included Baptist Medical System, 
St. Vincent Infirmary, both of which are acute care hospitals 
located in Little Rock, Arkansas, and Arkansas Blue Cross and 
Blue Shield, Inc. Those parties opposed Humana’s certificate of 
need application by appealing the final administrative agency 
determination first to the state trial court and then to the state 
supreme court. They also opposed Humana’s petition to the 
Arkansas Supreme Court for rehearing. 


* General Hospitals of Humana, Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
: Humana Inc., a publicly-traded company. . 


4 ‘s. c re S De: be oe vs es P 
Re ee Fee ae Pi ee Oe ee me ee OY Oe 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


TE IO OE dsisnnentncnstinantenantsinecsinctinntensnecnenitinnts 
I eilichncelaphipnttivennnsitianeineneesermneenemineiinninennsees 


STATEMENT OF THE CASE............c.cceccccccccsesssseseseesees 


Bs Bear III icecoccsnsicntecetinscinsocesccssnccecoscesernse 
2. Factual Background ..............cccsssssssseseeserseseresees 


REASONS FOR GRANTING THE WRIT.............000000 


L 


THE DECISION BELOW IMPROPERLY IM- 
POSES A MANDATORY FEDERAL STAN- 
DARD ON STATE HEALTH PLANNING 
ACTIVITIES, CONTRARY TO CONGRES- 
SIONAL INTENT AS EMBODIED IN THE 
NATIONAL BEALTH PLANNING ACT......... 


A. The Decision Below ives The States 


Of Discretion In Health ing, In Vio- 
lation Of The National Health Planning 
Act 


B. The Decision Below Conflicts With Judi- 
cial Interpretation Of The Act In Every 
Other State Which Has Considered The 


THE DECISION BELOW VIOLATES THE 
NATIONAL HEALTH PLANNING ACT 
AND DENIES HUMANA DUE PROCESS OF 
LAW BECAUSE IT DEPRIVES THE RE- 
SPONSIBLE STATE AGENCY, THE SHPDA, 
OF DISCRETION IN ADJUDICATING 
CERTIFICATE OF NEED APPLICATIONS. .... 
A. The Adjudicative Function Under The 

National Health Planning Act 
B. The Fourteenth Amendment 
FAILURE TO REMAND TO THE SHPDA 


FOR APPLICATION OF THE NEWLY- 


UNDER THE NEW STANDARD IN VIOLA- 
TION OF THE DUE PROCESS CLAUSE OF 
THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT............... 


; iy Ag 
i ee yan % ee 4 


11 
13 


iv 


CONCLUSION 17 

APPENDIX A la 
APPENDIX B Ib 
APPENDIX C Ic 
APPENDIX D Id 
APPENDIX E le 
APPENDIX F if 


APPENDIX G lg 


po ek Se 


v 


TABLE OF AUTHORITIES 


CASES: 


Fairfield Nursing Home v. Wahlen, 407 N.Y S.2d 
923, 64 A.D.2d 802 (Sup. Ct., App. Div. 1978) ...... 


Gibson v. Berryhill, 411 U.S. 574 (1973) 


Irvington Gen. Hosp. v. Department of Health, 374 
A.2d 49, 149 N.J. Super 461 (App. Div. 1977) ....... 


Mid-Ohio Health Planning Federation v. 


eof 
Need Review Board, No. 81AP-958 (Ct. ADP. 


Franklin County, Ohio, April 1, 1982) ..................... 


National Gerimedical Hospital and Gerontology Cen- 
ter v. Blue Cross, 452 US. Lp SRL A 


Northwest Health Care, Inc. v. Idaho Health Facilities 
Review Board, Case No. 76772 (4th Jud. D., Id., 
Jan. 31, 1983) 


Saunders v. Shaw, 244 U.S. 317 (1917) 
Solem v. Stumes, 52 U.S.L.W. 4307 ( Feb. 29, 1984).. 


Statewide Health Coordinating Council, et al. v. Gen- 
eral Hospitals of Humana, Inc., et al., 280 Ark. 441 
(1983), rehs. denied, 281 Ark. 98 (1983) ................ 


Service v. Dulles, 354 U.S. 363 (1951) 
Sturman v. Ingraham, 38 N.Y.S.2d 60, S52 A.D.2d 
882 (Sup. Ct. App. Div. 1976) 


West Virginia Health Systems Agency, Inc. v. State 
Health Planning and Development Agency, Civ. 
Act. No. Ap-Ca-80-1 (Cir. Ct., Kanawha County, 
W.Va., July 2, 1980) 

United States v. Caceras, 440 U.S. 741 (1979) ........... 

United States ex rel. Accardi v. Shaughnessy, 347 
US. 260 (1954) 


Vitarelli v. Seaton, 359 U.S. 535 (1959) 


iH 


14 


15 
15 


Page 

STATUTES AND REGULATIONS: 
National Health Planning and Resources Devel- 

opment Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. §§ 300k et seq ......... passim 
42 US.C. §300/(a)(1) 4 
42 U.S.C. §200/-1(b)( 1) 4 
42 U.S.C. §300/-1(b)(3)(c) 4,13 
42 U.S.C. §$300/-2(b)(1) 4 
es EIDE) sisiccrccseceocesnsescsccteccscesecsesccnaces “é, 
42 U.S.C. §300m(b)(1) sdosioevecencecevesenee 12 
42 U.S.C. §$300m-1( 1b) (1) ........ccceeeseeeeeees 12,15 
42 U.S.C. §300m-2(a)(4)(B) 3,12 
42 U.S.C. §300m-2(a)(5) sf 4 
42.U.S.C. §300m-2(c) 10 
42 U.S.C. §300m-3(b)(1) 4,13 
42 U.S.C. §300m-3(c) 4 
42 U.S.C. $300m-6(a)(5) 12 
42 U.S.C. $300n(1)(b)(12)(D) 4 
42 U.S.C. §300n(1)(c) 4,8,12 


42 C.F.R. §121.201(a) : 6 


or A . . ie See} eee © eee. See. 


IN THE 


Supreme Court of the United States 


OcTOBER TERM, 1983 


No: 


GENERAL HOSPITALS OF HUMANA, INC., 
Petitioner, 
Vv. 


ARKANSAS STATEWIDE HEALTH COORDINATING 
CounNcILL, et al., 
Respondents. 


PETITION FOR A WRIT OF CERTIORARI 
TO THE SUPREME COURT 
OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS 


General Hospitals of Humana, Inc. petitions for a writ of 
certiorari to review the judgment and opinion of the Supreme 
Court of the State of Arkansas entered on October 24, 1983, 
petition for rehearing denied, December 12, 1983. 


OPINION BELOW 


The opinion of the Arkansas Supreme Court is reproduced 
in the Appendix, and is reported as Statewide Health Coordi- 
nating Council et al. v. General Hospitals of Humana, Inc. et al., 
280 Ark. 441 (1983), reh. denied, 281 Ark. 98 (1983). Infra at 
la to 5a. The decision of the Pulaski County Circuit Court, 
Sixth Division, which was reversed by the Arkansas Supreme 
Court, is also reproduced in the Appendix. Infra at Ic to 3c. 


2 


These state court decisions were issued on judicial review 
of the decisions of the Arkansas State Health Planning and 
Development Agency and the Arkansas Department of Social 
Services, both of which are reproduced in the Appendix. Infra 
at le to 4e (SHPDA decision), and Id to 16d (Department of 
Social Services decision ). 


JURISDICTION 


The judgment of the Arkansas Supreme Court, applying 
provisions of the National Health Planning and Resources 
Development Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. §§300k ef seg., (the 
“National Health Planning Act”) and implementing regu- 
lations, 42 C.F.R. §§121 ef seg., was entered on October 24, 
1983. A timely petition for rehearing was denied on December 
12, 1983. This petition for certiorari is being filed within ninety 
(90) days of that date. This Court’s jurisdiction is invoked 
under 28 U.S.C. § 1257(3). See Infra at 1f-2f. 


STATUTORY PROVISIONS INVOLVED 


Relevant provisions of the National Health Planning Act 
and of the Code of Federal Regulations involved in this case 
are reproduced in the Appendix. Infra at lg to 19g. 


STATEMENT OF THE CASE 


The National Health Planning and Resources Devel- 
opment Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. §§300k ef seg., created a 
cooperative federal-state program to oversee the nation’s health 
care delivery system. Since passage of the Act, numerous issues 
have arisen concerning the delicate balance which the Act 
sought to achieve between the roles of federal and state 
government, as well as between governmental interests and 
those of private entities such as private health care providers 
and citizen-industry advisory groups. Despite the fundamental 
importance of these issues, this Court has had but limited 


: nats 
‘ Sy. oa 
Pe Sox, ee ee 


3 


opportunity to address health planning.' The decision below of 
the Arkansas Supreme Court, review of which is sought here, 
squarely poses these issues and provides this Court with an 
opportunity to address these questions authoritatively and for 
the first time. 

1. Legal Framework 

This case is before the Court on a petition for a Writ of 
Certiorari to review a decision of the Supreme Court of 
Arkansas. The federal questions presented were timely raised 
in the proceedings below. Petitioner's interpretation of the 
National Health Plannisg Act was argued at all levels of 
administrative and judicial review below. See Appendix la to 
le. The Arkausas Supreme Court’s novel interpretation of that 
federal statute was challenged in the petition for rehearing to 
the Arkansas Supreme Court. See Appendix at 2b. The error 
in the Arkansas Supreme Court's refusal to remand its decision 
was argued in petitioner’s petition for rehearing to that court. 
See Appendix at 3b. 


Under the National Health Planning Act, Congress ini- 
tiated a cooperative federal-state effort to oversee the provision 
of health care services in the United States. In general, the 
states are authorized to establish health planning programs and 
are made eligible for federal graits to fund those programs, 
subject to the provisions of the federal'law. 


Two facets of the National Health Planning Act are central 
to the issues in this proceeding. First, the Act directs the 
governor of a state to establish a state health planning and 
development agency (“SHPDA”), an adjudicative body whose 
principal function is to administer a state “certificate of need” 
program. 42 U.S.C. §300m-2(a)(4)(B). Under this program, 
the SHPDA has the exclusive authority to evaluate whether and 
to certify that a proposed capital expenditure for the provision 


‘The only decision by this Court construing the National Health 
Planning Act, National Gerimedical Hospital v. Blue Cross, 452 U.S. 378 
(1981), dealt with the relationship of the Act to the antitrust laws, and did not 
directly involve questions of the implementation of the Act, although it 


4 


of new health care services is demographically necessary. 42 
U.S.C. §300m-2(a)(5). The federal statute enumerates more 
than a dozen criteria the SHPDA must consider in evaluating a 
certificate of need application. 42 U.S.C. §300n-I(c). The 
SHPDA decision may be appealed to an independent agency of 
the state government designated by the governor to conduct 
that review, and ultimately to the state courts for judicial 
review. 42 U.S.C. §300n-1(b)(12)(D). 


Second, the National Health Planning Act directs the 
governor to establish two citizen-industry advisory organiza- 
tions, the first denominated a “health systems agency” 
(“HSA”), 42 U.S.C. §300/-1(b)( 1), and the second designated 
a “statewide health coordinating council” (“SHCC”). 42 
U.S.C. §300m-3(b)(1)(A)(i). Both the HSA and the SHCC 
are comprised of representatives of providers of health care 
services, health care insurers, and health care consumers. 42 
U.S.C. §300/-1(b)(3)(C), §300m-3(b)(1)(B). An HSA is 
responsible for cataloging the availability of health care services 
in an area designated by the governor as a geographic region 
appropriate for the effective planning and development of 
health services. 42 U.S.C. §§300/ a)( 1), 300/-2(b)(1). On the 
basis of this information, the HSA is to prepare a “health 
systems plan” for the area, which, inter alia, describes the 
institutional health services that it believes are necessary to 
provide an adequate level of health care services to residents in 
the area. 42 U.S.C. §300/-2(b)(2). The SHCC, a statewide 
organization composed in part of representatives of each HSA 
in the state, is responsible for coordinating the activities of each 
of the HSAs and for integrating the health systems plans of the 
state’s HSAs into a single, comprehensive “state health plan.” 
42 U.S.C. §300m-3(c). 


2. Factual Background 


On January 15, 1982, petitioner General Hospitals of 
Humana, Inc. (“Humana”) filed an application for approval 
under the Arkansas certificate of need program of a proposed 
150 bed acute care hospital to be located in the city of 
Sherwood, Arkansas, a town located in northern Pulaski Coun- 
ty, Arkansas which currently does not have an acute care 


5 


hospital. The Arkansas SHPDA—pursuant to its responsi- 
bilities under the National Health Planning Act and Arkansas 
State law—determined after a two day evidentiary hearing that 
there was a need for the health care services Humana proposed 
to offer. On the basis of these findings the SHPDA granted 
Humana’s certificate of need application in July, 1982. See 
Appendix at le to 4e. 


The application was opposed by two competing hospitals 
in Little Rock and a health care insurer in the state. One of the 
hospitals requested a hearing before the SHPDA in which it 
opposed the application. All three opponents formally re- 
quested reconsideration of the SHPDA’s decision and appealed 
the SHPDA determination at each subsequent level of review.? 


On appeal, the Arkansas Department of Social Services, 
acting as the statutorily required independent reviewing agency, 
see 42 U.S.C. §300n-1(b)(12)(D), affirmed the SHPDA’s 
determination of need and approval of Humana’s application. 
See Appendix at Id to 16d. The opponents subsequently took 
an appeal to the Pulaski County Circuit Court, which in 
January, 1983, similarly affirmed the agency’s decision. See 
Appendix at Ic to 7c. After the circuit court affirmed the 
agency’s decision and since there was no stay requested, 
Humana, in reliance upon the certificate of need it had been 
issued on August 5, 1982, began construction of the hospital in 
April, 1983. 


Still dissatisfied, the opponents took yet another appeal, at 
this point to the Arkansas Supreme Court. On October 24, 
1983, the Arkansas Supreme Court rejected the decisions of the 
Arkansas SHPDA, of the Arkansas Department of Social 
Services, and of the Pulaski County Circuit Court, and reversed 
the circuit court’s decision. The court concluded that the 
SHPDA did not have authority under federal law to approve 


In the proceedings before the Pulaski County Circuit Court the 
opponents named the Arkansas SHCC as a party respondent along with 
Humana, the independent agency, and the SHPDA. The SHCC was allowed 
to realign as a party petitioner in the final order of the circuit court confirming 
the agency's determination to grant Humana’s certificate of need application. 
The SHCC joined the other opponents in the appeal to the Arkansas Supreme 
Court. 


6 


the application. See Appendix at 5a. At the time of the 
Supreme Court’s decision Humana had expended $7 million 
dollars toward construction of the hospital.* 


Specifically, the court determined that a certain federal 
regulatory guideline as to recommended bed-population 
ratios—set forth by regulation, and not by statute—preciuded 
the SHPDA from exercising any discretion in determining the 
need for Humana’s proposed hospital. This general federal 
numerical guideline, contained in regulations issued by the 
federal Department of Health and Human Services to imple- 
ment the National Health Planning Act, suggests that for 
certificate of need purposes, “There should be less than four 
non-Federal, short-stay hospital beds for each 1,000 persons in 
a health service area except under extraordinary circum- 
stances.” 42 C.F.R. §121.201(a). The court reasoned that 
because there already were more than four acute care hospital 
beds per 1,000 persons in the Central Arkansas Health Systems 
Area—which included the city of Sherwood—the federal stan- 
dard prohibited the issuance of a certificate of need to Humana. 
In reaching this conclusion, the court expressly rejected Hu- 
mana’s contention that the four-beds-per-1,000 persons stan- 
dard was a guideline to be considered together with, and given 
the same weight as, the other criteria identified in the 
implementing legislation. See Appendix at 3a, Sa. 

Not only did the court conclude that the federal regulatory 
guideline was mandatory as a matter of federal law, but the 
court also held that the guideline was an absolute ceiling 
because the citizen’s advisory groups—the Health Systems 
Agency and subsequently the State Health Coordinating Coun- 
cil—had each adopted the suggested federal numerical guide- 
line as part of the Health Systems Plan and the State Health 
Plan. In adopting this alternative holding, the court rejected 
the argument that construing the two health plans as containing 


3 Rule 16( a) of the SHPDA rules required action by Humana within one 
year after the Humana application had been granted, or the certificate of need 
issued by the SHPDA would have automatically expired. 

“The Arkansas Supreme Court held that the federal numerical guide- 
lines are conclusively binding except in very limited “exceptional” circum- 
stances, leaving no room for discretionary judgments. 


, 
te te . > Mess 
i, Voy sae d >. i? oF - Z 4 s. “aw Te » as — = a>. a wt >is * ~ «a - eh | 


7 


an immutable and mechanical numerical standard effectively 
shifts control of decision-making in health planning from the 
state agency—the SHPDA, in which Congress has placed this 
responsibility—to the HSA and the SHCC, the citizen-industry 
advisory councils which include potential competitors of new 
entrants and which is exempt from the review and account- 
ability imposed on the SHPDA. 


REASONS FOR GRANTING THE WRIT 


lL THE DECISION BELOW IMPROPERLY IMPOSES A 
MANDATORY FEDERAL STANDARD ON STATE 
HEALTH PLANNING ACTIVITIES, CONTRARY TO 
CONGRESSIONAL INTENT AS EMBODIED IN THE 
NATIONAL HEALTH PLANNING ACT. 


A Writ of Certiorari should issue to resolve the classic 
conflict created by the decision below between federal regu- 
lation and the role of the states in implementing the joint 
federal state program. In this case, the Arkansas Supreme 
Court has ruled that the role of the states in the health planning 
process is essentially limited to the mechanical application of 
what that court concluded is an absolute, federally-mandated 
numerical ceiling on the construction of new hospital beds. 
That holding deprives the states of their inherent discretion to 
regulate the development of local health resources, a discretion 
Congress clearly confirmed in the National Health Planning 
Act. The decision below thus unduly restricts the power of the 
states over health planning and ignores Congress’ intent to 
commit to the states basic decision-making authority for health 
planning. 


A. The Decision Below Deprives The States Of Dis- 
cretion In Health Planning, In Violation Of The 
National Health Planning Act. 


By holding that federal guidelines promulgated by the 
.. federal Department of Health and Human Services impose a 
binding ceiling on state health planning, the decision belov 


ef 


DearS ; 
SeaSA 
ea? ee 


8 


leaves state governments, in Arkansas as well as in every other 
-certificate of need state, with little or no role in health planning 
other than to gather the data and to perform the arithmetic 
calculations necessary to implement the federally-imposed 
“ceiling.” Such a result clearly conflicts with the National 
Health Planning Act, which enumerates more than a dozen 
different criteria which the HSA and the SHCC must consider in 
developing the health system and state-wide health plans, and 
which the SHPDA must consider in acting upon certificate of 
need applications. 42 U.S.C. §300n-1(c). Indeed, the Act itself 
conspicuously avoids any mandatory language in describing the 
federal guidelines, instead referring to them only as “recom- 
mended national guidelines” which the states are merely to 
“take into account” in their health planning activities. 42 
U.S.C. §300/-2(b)(2) (emphasis added). ' 

Certainly, the numerical guidelines are a goal to be 
reached over a period of time and must be considered by the 
SHPDA in evaluating certificate of need applications, as the 
SHPDA did in this case. Appendix at 2e, 3e. However, it was 
not the intent of Congress to eliminate the other criteria to be 
considered by the SHPDA. Had this been the intent, Congress 
could have merely passed an act limiting the number of beds to 
four per thousand, or some number established by the Secre- 
tary, and saved the money the Federal government now spends 
for SHPDAs, SHCCs and HSAs throughout the country. Ob- 
viously, Congress was attempting to prohibit the building of 
unneeded hospital beds by establishing criteria to be considered 
by the state agency in the determination of what is or is not 
needed. 


By requiring the states to attribute conclusively dispositive 
importance to the federal numerical guidelines, the decision 
below necessarily eliminates the discretion of the state health 
’ planning bodies to consider the other factors Congress directed 
them to evaluate. By necessary implication, the decision below 
demands that state health planning activities comply with the 
Secretary’s regulatory bed-population guidelines even if the 
other criteria—embodied in statute, rather than merely in 
subsequently-adopted regulations—dictate a different con- 


9 


clusion. Thus, the decision below not only precludes the 
SHPDA, the SHCC and the HSAs from exercising the full 
discretion Congress intended, but also affirmatively prevents 
these bodies from applying the statutory criteria of the Act 
when they conflict with the federal regulatory recommenda- 
tions. 


B. The Decision Below Conflicts With Judicial 
Interpretation Of The Act In Every Other State 
Which Has Considered The Issue. 


The need for Supreme Court review of the impact of the 
Arkansas Supreme Court decision on national health planning 
is highlighted by the fact that the decision below conflicts with 
the decisions of every other state court which has addressed the 
authority of the states to depart from the federal numerical 
guidelines. In other states, the courts have determined that the 
federal “four-beds-per-1,000-persons” guidelines—or similar 
recommendations for health care facilities other than hospi- 
tals—is not a sine qua non, but is only one factor among many 
others to be considered in determining whether a certificate of 
need application is consistent with the state’s health planning 
goals. See Northwest Health Care, Inc. v. Idaho Health 
Facilities Review Board, Case No. 76772 (4th Jud. D. Id. Jan. 
31, 1983); Mid-Ohio Health Planning Federation v. Certificate 
of Need Review Board, No. 81AP-958 (Ct. App., Franklin 
County, Ohio, April 1, 1982); West Virginia Health Systems 
Agency, Inc. v. State Health Planning and Development Agency, 
Civ. Act. No. Ap-Ca-80-1 (Cir. Ct., Kanawha County, W. Va., 
July 2, 1980); Fairfield Nursing Home v. Whalen, 407 N.Y.S.2d 
923, 64 A.D.2d 802 (Sup. Ct., App. Div. 1978); Irvington Gen. 
Hosp. v. Department of Health, 374 A.2d 49, 51, 149 N.J. Super 
461 (App. Div. 1977); Sturman v. Ingraham, 383 N.Y.S.2d 60, 
64, 52 A.D.2d 882 (Sup. Ct. Div. 1976). 


The impropriety of the Arkansas Supreme Court’s inter- 
pretation of the guidelines is underscored by this Court’s 
discussion of the National Health Planning Act in National 
Gerimedical Hospital and Gerontology Center v. Blue Cross 452 
U.S. 378 (1981). As was recognized in National Gerimedical, 


10 


Congress envisioned that state planning agencies would consid- 
er a variety of factors, including effect on competition, in 
judging a certificate of need application. To the contrary, 
however, the decision below makes the federal guidelines not 
merely one factor to be considered, but instead an absolute 
ceiling that may be exceeded only upon a showing of ex- 
ceptional circumstances, thus reading out of the Act all the 
other factors Congress intended be considered. This result 
contradicts not only the plain language of the National Health 
Planning Act and the relevant holdings of every other state 
court, but also this Court’s interpretation of the statute in 
National Gerimedical.® 


Finally, the Arkansas Supreme Court decision has particu- 
larly far-reaching implications throughout the United States 
because, as of January 1, 1984, 49 states had certificate of need 
review programs under the National Health Planning Act. At 
least‘a dozen of those states have incorporated the same federal 
numerical guidelines in their respective state health plans. If 
the federal numerical standard in fact is not a recommendation 
but an absolute ceiling, the SHPDA in each of these states has 
no authority to grant a certificate of need that exceeds the 
numerical guidelines, contrary to the present practice in those 
states. The administration of health planning programs 
throughout the nation will be subject to fundamental revisions 
if the Arkansas Supreme Court’s interpretation of the National 
Health Planning Act is allowed to stand. 


§ Writing for a unanimous Court, Justice Powell noted that Congress, 
concerned with decreasing competition in the health care provider field, found 
that “planning agencies should ‘give priority...to actions which would 
strengthen the effect of competition on the supply of such services.’ ” 452 U.S. 
at 388 n.13 (citations omitted ). 

® Other provisions of the National Health Planning Act evidence a clear 
Congressional intent that the SHPDA. may deviate from the plans developed 
by the advisory groups. For example, the Act requires the SHPDA to submit 
a statement of reasons to the HSA whenever it approves a certificate of need 
application that is “not consistent with” the health systems plan of the HSA. 
42 U.S.C. §300m-2(c). Implicit in this requirement is the congressional 
expectation that the SHPDA may approve applications that are not consistent 
with the State Health Plan, inasmuch as the State Health Pian is based on the 
recommendations of the individual HSAs in the state. 


EN) ) nore 
bee | Rte re PRE TPS Se Se 


ll 


Il. THE DECISION BELOW VIOLATES THE NATION- 
AL HEALTH PLANNING ACT AND DENIES HU- 
MANA DUE PROCESS OF LAW BECAUSE IT DE- 
PRIVES THE RESPONSIBLE STATE AGENCY, THE 
SHPDA, OF DISCRETION IN ADJUDICATING CER- 
TIFICATE OF NEED APPLICATIONS. 


The conclusion below that the federal bed-population 
ratios are mandatory not only deprives the SHCC and the HSAs 
of much of their discretion to tailor health plans to the areas 
uader their jurisdiction (see section I, supra ), but to an even 
greater degree unlawfuly hamstrings the SHPDA in exercising 
its responsibilites to adjudicate certificate of need applications. 
Whether the reasoning below is read as giving conclusive effect 
to the guidelines because they are contained in federal regu- 
lations or because they are included in the health plans adopted 
by the HSAs and the SHCC, the result is that the SHPDA is 
limited to deciding certificate of need cases merely by making 
arithmetic calculations of bed-population ratios, rather than 
adjudicating the merits of the application against the numerous 
criteria mandated by the National Health Planning Act. 


Under the Arkansas Supreme Court decision, the bed- 
population guideline (together with HSA and SHCC decisions 
as to adoption and implementation of the guideline—to the 
extent the decision below permits any such decision-making) 
becomes the sole determinative for evaluating a certificate of 
need application. Accordingly, the real decision-making occurs, 
if at all, before the HSAs and the SHCC in their adoption of a 
plan and implementation of the guideline rather than before 
the SHPDA—the state agency to which both federal and state 
law expressly entrust such decisions. Not only does such a 
result conflict with the federal and state health planning 
statutes, but it also offends constitutional due process require- 
ments. 


A. The Adjudicative Function Under The National 
Health Planning Act. 


Although the National Health Planning Act anticipates 
significant cooperation among the SHCC, the HSAs and the 


12 


SHPDA, there is a clear-cut division of responsibility among 
these bodies. Each is to make its own decisions, within its area 
of responsibility on the basis of its own evaluation of all 
relevant criteria. 42 U.S.C. §300n-1(c). In this division of 
responsibility, the National Health Planning Act clearly gives 
the SHPDA—as the only truly governmental agency of the 
three bodies—exclusive authority to adjudicate whether a 
certificate of need should issue. 42 U.S.C. §300m-6(a)(5). 


The Arkansas Supreme Court decision elevates the HSA’s 
and SHCC’s implementation of the bed-population guideline to 
an absolute, and binds the SHPDA to that single determination 
to the exclusion of the other factors the SHPDA is statutorily 
required to consider. The decision thus robs the SHPDA of the 
discretionary authority it is intended to exercise.”? This result 
contradicts the plain language of the Act which requires that the 
SHPDA be the “sole agency” to administer the certificate of 
need program and to adjudicate certificate of need applications. 
42 U.S.C. $300m(b)(1), §300m-1(b)(1), $300m-2(a)(4)(B). 
As recognized by this Court in National Gerimedical, the 
HSAs—the citizen-industry advisory groups to health plan- 
ning—“do not possess regulatory authority over health-care 
providers.” 452 U.S. at 385. Similarly, this Court has recog- 
nized the limited rule of HSAs and the SHCC by noting that a 
SHPDA “is advised by a [SHCC], composed in part of 
representatives of local HSAs.” Id. at 386 (emphasis added). 
Thus, on its face, the National Health Planning Act precludes 
the Arkansas court’s de facto delegation of SHPDA decision- 
making authority to the SHCC and HSAs. 


Certainly, the federal numerical guidelines (as well as the 
HSAs and SHCC’s recommendations) must be considered by 
the SHPDA in evaluating applications, as the SHPDA did in 
this case. However, Congress’ express intent to vest the 
SHPDA with discretionary decision-making authority and the 
creation by the Act of a detailed administrative adjudicative 
process is flatly inconsistent with the decision below estab- 
lishing a single, absolute, nationwide, numerical standard 


7 As this Court has recognized, removing an administrator’s discretion 


violates the due process rights of the party before the administrator. See infra 
at 15, o.11. 


13 


promulgated by federal agency regulations and elevating the 
advisory recommendations of the HSAs and the SHCC to the 
level of immutable final decisions. If either the federal 
guideline or the HSA’s and SHCC’s planning recommendations 
are deemed to be absolute and dispositive, as the court below 
held, the SHPDA is rendered impotent and superfluous, and 
the joint federal state health planning processes carefully 
constructed by Congress are thrown into disarray. 


B. The Fourteenth Amendment. 


Were the Arkansas decision permitted to stand, the health 
planning procedures that must be followed not only are incon- 
sistent with the National Health Planning Act, but also violate 
due process rights to an impartial governmental agency eval- 
uation of certificate of need applications, as guaranteed by the 
fourteenth amendment. 


As noted above, and by this Court in National Gerimedical, 
the HSAs and the SHCC are to play an advisory role, and are 
made up of citizen and industry volunteers rather than account- 
able governmental officials. Indeed, the membership of the 
HSAs and the SHCC created under the National Health 
Planning Act must include a significant number of representa- 
tives of existing health care providers in the area—precisely the 
entities most likely to oppose new applications for competitive 
or other business reasons. See 42 U.S.C. § 300/-1(b)(3)(C), 
(HSA membership requirements); 42 U.S.C. §300m-3(b)(1) 
(SHCC membership requirements). At best, this participation 
of unavoidably biased persons on the HSAs and SHCC might 
be permissible were those two bodies limited to the merely 
advisory role contemplated by the Act. 


Under the Arkansas Supreme Court decision, however, the 
role of these bodies—and these interested individuals—is dra- 
matically expanded from that established by the Act, because 
those groups exercise the effective authority to determine 
conclusively the disposition of applications for certificates of 
need by potential competitors. Further, this potentially-tainted 
process is conducted before a non-governmental entity outside 
normal governmental accountability procedures. Finally, the 
dispositive action—the adoption of the State Health Plan 


te oN 


14 


—usually occurs even before the potential applicant has sub- 
mitted an application or has had an opportunity to be heard. 
The decision below which creates such a biased procedure 
therefore conflicts head on with the due process guarantees of 
the fourteenth amendment. Gibson v. Berryhill, 411 U.S. 574, 
578 (1973). 

The obvious due process implications of the health plan- 
ning procedures which would flow were the decision below 
permitted to stand are graphically illustrated by the circum- 
stances of this case. As was argued to the Arkansas Supreme 
Court, it was recommended to the local HSA that an amend- 
ment to the State Health Plan to reflect the need identified by 
Humana in its certificate of need application be forwarded to 
the SHCC.® That proposed amendment was never even consid- 
ered by the SHCC, because prerequisite preliminary approval 
by the HSA was denied.® Significantly, the decisive HSA votes 
against the request for a plan amendment were cast by 
employees, lawyers, and doctors associated with the hospitals 
which opposed Humana’s application and which presently 
oppose petitioner as parties to the case before this Court.'© The 
obvious and fundamental unfairness of this procedure assumes 
constitutional dimensions under the decision of the Arkansas 
Supreme Court, which makes recourse to the HSA and SHCC 
for a plan amendment virtually the sole means by which 
approval might be obtained. 

This impermissible result can be avoided only if the 
National Health Planning Act is construed, according to its 


® The plan amendment would have more realistically defined the area to 
be served by the proposed hospital, an area in which the available hospital 
beds were well below the suggested guideline ratio. Although rejected by the 
opponent-dominated HSA, and hence not forwarded to the SHCC, the 
amendment was recommended by the Facilities Review Committee of the 
HSA. 
® See Testimony of Thomas W. Boston of the Arkansas SHPDA (R.A. at 
430-35). (“R.A.” denotes the record abstract submitted by appellants Baptist 
Medical System, St. Vincent Infirmary and Arkansas Blue Cross and Blue 
Shield, Inc. to the Arkansas Supreme Court in this case.) 

%” The vote was 21 opposed, with 15 in favor of the proposed amend- 
ment. Had the 10 members affiliated with the interested hospitals been 
disqualified because of their apparent conflict, the plan amendment ( which 
was recommended by the Facilities Review Committee of the HSA) would 
have carried by 15 to 11. See Central Arkansas HSA Board of Directors’ 
meeting, R.A. at 48-49. 


oT eae 


15 


plain language, to entrust the discretionary, adjudicative au- 
thority to rule on certificate of need applications to the 
SHPDA—a governmental agency which does not represent any 
provider. Indeed, Congress’ explicit delegation of certificate of 
need authority exclusively to the SHPDA as the “sole agency” 
to administer the certificate of need program, 42 U.S.C. §300m- 
1(b)(1), rather than to a panel consisting of private, competing 
interests in the health care community, demonstrates legislative 
awareness of the problems inherent in allowing biased control 
of the certificate of need decision-making process. Thus, the 
decision below, by depriving an applicant of the right to a 
decision by the SHPDA as an impartial agency of the state 
government having independent discretionary adjudicative 
power violates the fourteenth amendment’s due process guaran- 
tees.11 


Ill. FAILURE TO REMAND TO THE SHPDA FOR APPLI- 
CATION OF THE NEWLY-FORMULATED AND 
UNFORESEEABLE STANDARD DENIED PETITION- 
ER AN OPPORTUNITY TO PRESENT EVIDENCE 
UNDER THE NEW STANDARD IN VIOLATION OF 
THE DUE PROCESS CLAUSE OF THE FOUR- 
TEENTH AMENDMENT. 

A Writ of Certiorari should issue because Humana was 
given no opportunity to present evidence to show that its 
application should be approved even under the unique and 


‘' By so limiting SHPDA discretion, the decision below not only shifts 
decision-making authority to a biased decision-maker, but also prevents the 
agency entrusted with that authority from exercising it, in violation of due 
process of law. As this Court held thirty years ago, “. . . if the word discretion 
means anything in a statutory or administrative grant of power, it means that 
the recipient must exercise his authority according to his own understanding 
and conscience.” United States ex rel. Accardi v. Shaughnessy, 347 U.S. 260, 
266-67 (1954). See also Vitarelli v. Seaton, 359 U.S. 535 (1959); Service v. 
Dulles, 354 US. 363 (1957). Underlying Accardi, and the long line of 
Supreme Court cases based on it, “is a judgment, central to our concept of due 
process, that government officials no less than private citizens are bound by 
rules of law.” United States v. Caceras, 440 U.S. 741, 758 (1979) (Marshall 
J., dissenting) (footnote omitted). This underlying concept is even more 
applicable to a case, such as the instant one, where the agencies’ discretion is 
prescribed by federal law. By eliminating the discretion of the SHPDA, the 
decision below violates this basic tenet of constitutional law. 


16 


unforeseen standard ultimately endorsed by the Arkansas Su- 
preme Court. As discussed above in section I, the Arkansas 
decision reflects a clear break with the law as announced by 
every other court which has considered the issue, as well as with 
previous Arkansas practice. Despite this clear break with the 
past in enunciating dramatically new certificate of need rules, 
the Arkansas Supreme Court refused to remand this matter to 
the SHPDA for an evidentiary hearing consistent with the 
newly-enunciated standard, and instead simply reversed the 
decision of the circuit court affirming the SHPDA’s action. 


The due process need for a remand is best demonstrated 
here by the fact that the SHPDA, in its decision, clearly and 
correctly enunciated the legal standards it had developed over 
the years to evaluate certificate of need applications and which 
it applied to Humana’s application. The SHPDA defended that 
standard through all three separate levels of appeal, including 
before the Arkansas Supreme Court. Thus, the legal standard 
the Arkansas Supreme Court ultimately enunciated in the 
decision below was not “foreshadowed by earlier cases” and 
certainly “was a ‘clear break with the past.’” Cf. Solem v. 
Stumes, 52 U.S.L.W. 4307, 4309 (Feb. 29, 1984). Under these 
circumstances, the Arkansas Supreme Court decision should 
only apply prospectively, as Humana argued below. At the 
very least, however, Humana should have the opportunity to 
have its application considered under the newly enunciated 
standard, after an opportunity to present evidence relevant to 
that standard. 


Significantly, after articulating its new rule that the “rec- 
ommended national guideline,” 42 U.S.C. § 300/-2(b)(2), 
constituted a “national mandatory ceiling,” the Supreme Court 
evaluated Humana’s application under the new test and re- 
versed the circuit court’s decision only because, in the Court’s 
words, “Humana did not submit figures;” “there has been no 
finding;” “there is no proof;” and “there is no substantial 
evidence” to satisfy the new legal standard first articulated on 
appeal. Appendix at 4a, 5a. Even the Arkansas Supreme Court 
recognized that Humana’s argument was limited to a defense of 
the legal standard applied by the administrative agencies and 


17 


court below, and that Humana “could not seriously argue” that 
the record contained the evidence which would have been 
introduced had the fact-finding hearings been conducted under 
the new standard. Appendix at 5a. The Arkansas Supreme 
Court nevertheless refused to remand. 


There can be little doubt that such refusal denied Humana 
due process under the fourteenth amendment. As Justice 
Holmes, writing for a unanimous court, stated in a case nearly 
identical procedurally: ““When the act complained of is the 
action of the [state] supreme court, done unexpectedly at the 
end of the proceeding, when [the petitioner] no longer had any 
right to add to the record, it would leave a serious gap in the 
remedy for infraction of constitutional rights if the party 
aggrieved in such a way could not come here.” Saunders v. 
Shaw, 244 U.S. 317, 320 (1917). 


CONCLUSION 


For these reasons, petitioner respectfully requests that a 
Writ of Certiorari be issued to review the judgment and opinion 
of the Supreme Court of Arkansas. 


Respectfully submitted, 


Lee CALLIGARO 

Tuomas H. Brock 

Casson, CALLIGARO & MUTRYN 
900 Watergate Office Building 
2600 Virginia Avenue, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20037 


Rosert D. Sarr, III 
Georce O. JERNIGAN, Jr. 
SMITH, JERNIGAN & SMITH 
312 South Pulaski 

Little Rock, AR 72201 


Counsel for Petitioners 


72 . ta 
een 
a 
‘ 
4 
. e An 


ane 


, ine 
it aa hieat ie 


yi y 
8 OKs PLS 


as 


Se 


SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS 


No. 83-83 


STATEWIDE HEALTH COORDINATING COUNCIL ef al., 
Appellants, 
Ve 


GENERAL HOSPITALS OF HUMANA, INC., ef ai., 
Appellees. 


Opinion Delivered: 
October 24, 1983. 


Appeal from Pulaski Circuit Court, 
Sixth Division; John Langston, Judge. 


Reversed. 


GEORGE ROSE SMITH, J. The principal appellee, 
General Hospitals of Humana, which we will refer to as 
Humana, is a subsidiary corporation of a parent company that 
owns about 90 hospitals, nearly all of them in the United States. 
In 1982 Humana applied to the Arkansas Health Planning & 
Development Agency, which we will refer to as the State 
Agency, for a certificate of need that would authorize Humana 
to construct and operate a 150-bed community hospital at 
Sherwood, in Pulaski County. The application was opposed by 
the Baptist Medical System, St. Vincent Infirmary, and Ar- 
kansas Blue Cross & Blue Shield. After a hearing the director 
of the State Agency, acting for the Agency, granted the 
application. 


The three protestants asked for a review by an independ- 
ent agency, as permitted by the State Agency’s rules. The 
Governor appointed the Arkansas Social Services as the inde- 
pendent reviewing agency. A Social Services attorney con- 
ducted a hearing and upheld the award of the certificate of 
need. That decision was affirmed by the circuit court. The 


2a 


protestants present several arguments for reversal, but we need 
consider only one: The State Agency was not authorized to 
grant a certificate of need that was inconsistent with the State 
Health Plan. On the record that argument must-be sustained, 
which disposes of the case. 


First, a preliminary procedural matter. Humana has filed 
a motion to dismiss the appeal as moot, asserting that it was 
compelled by the State Agency’s Rule 16 to enter into a 
construction contract (and it actually began construction) 
within one year after the certificate of need was awarded on 
August 5, 1982, else the certificate would have expired. With- 
out implying that Humana’s motion to dismiss is otherwise well 
taken, we note two flaws in its argument. First, Rule 16 
provides that for good cause the State Agency may extend the 
time up to an additional six months. Humana apparently had 
good cause to seek an extension, but it did not do so. Second, 
Rule 16 also states that evidence of an obligation to make the 
capital expenditure must be received by the State Agency 
within one year after its approval of the project or the approval 
will expire. An obligation, under Rule 16, is deemed to have 
been incurred within the year if the applicant enters into an 
enforceable contract for the construction, acquisition, lease, or 
financing of a capital asset. Hence the execution of a construc- 
tion contract was not the only choice. Apparently the Humana 
company fulfilled the financing alternative, as Humana pro- 
duced testimony on November 9, 1982, that bonds for the 
project had been issued. We conclude that Humana was not 
threatened with an immediate expiration of its certificate of 
need. 


Turning to the merits, we must emphasize at the outset that 
there is in progress a national effort to limit the construction of 
new hospitals—an effort initiated by Congress, carried forward 
by regulations issued by the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, and supported by legislation enacted by the states, 
which are expected to participate in the program and receive 
federal funds for health care. Among the statutes and regu- 
lations pertinent to this case are 42 U.S.C.A. §§300k to 300n-6 
(1982); 42 C.F.R. §§121.1 to 124.607 (1982); and Ark. Stat. 
Ann. §§82-2301 to -2314 (Repl. 1976 and Supp. 1983). 


3a 


The policy of restricting hospital construction stems from 
Congress’s belief that competition among hospitals, unlike 
competition in the market place, does not reduce the cost of in- 
patient hospital services to the consuming public. 42 U.S.C.A. 
§300k-2(b)(1). To the contrary, the testimony in the case at 
bar shows that such competition actually increases hospital 
charges. Fixed hospital costs are so great that an empty bed 
costs about half as much to maintain as an occupied bed. 
Hospitals compete not for patients but for doctors, who usually 
select the patient’s hospital. Hospitals vie with one another in 
acquiring expensive equipment, with unnecessary and costly 
duplication of facilities. Hospital charges are apt to be paid 
without question by public and private health insurers. The 
hard fact is, as one witness stated bluntly: “The cost of hospital 
care is just outrageous to the consumer.” 

Congress has attacked the problem by attempting to limit 
the number of licensed hospital beds. The federal regulation, 
42 C.F.R. §121.201(a), provides: “Standard. There should be 
less than four non-Federal, short-stay hospital beds for each 
1,000 persons in a health service area except under extraor- 
dinary circumstances.”’ (Our italics). The ensuing discussion in 
subsection (b) then states: “Health Maintenance Organizations 
and similar groups have shown that high quality care can be 
provided with less than 3 beds per 1,000 population. Thus, 4 
beds per 1,000 population is a ceiling, not an ideal situation.” 
The Arkansas State Health Plan contains the same less-than-4- 
beds-per-1,000 limitation that was written into the federal 
regulations. Ark. State Health Plan, pp. 184-185. 

The federal law, in its endeavor to control the proliferation 
of hosptial beds throughout the nation, contemplates that each 
state will be divided by its governor, subject to revision by the 
Secretary, into health service areas so that the distribution of 
health care units can be conformed to local conditions. Ar- 
kansas has been divided into four such areas. This case arose 
within the Central Arkansas area, composed of Faulkner, 
Lonoke, Monroe, Prairie, Pulaski, and Saline Counties. This 
area, like other health service areas, has its own Health Systems 
Agency and Health Systems Plan. There is also a detailed State 
Health Plan, which must be and was adopted by the Statewide 
Health Coordinating Council, must be revised by that Council 


4a 


at least every three years, and is to be administered by the 
State Agency. 42 U.S.C.A. §300m-2(a)(2); 42 U.S.C.A. 
$300m-3(c)(2)(A). 


Various different figures were given in the testimony about 
the number of hospital beds in the Central Arkansas area, 
because the witnesses did not count the beds in the same way. 
There is no question, however, but that the area, like most of 
the nation, is overbedded in that its licensed hospital beds 
already exceed the federal and state maximum of 4 beds per 
~ 1,000 persons. Humana did submit figures purporting to show 
that in 1986 there would be no overage even with its 150 added 
beds, but when this isolated testimony is weighed along with 
the other proof it cannot be considered substantial evidence. 
See Ark. Savings & Loan Assn. Bd. v. Central Ark. S. & L. 
Assn., 260 Ark. 58, 538 S.W.2d 505 (1976). Moreover, both the 
State Agency and the reviewing independent agency found that 
Humana’s application is inconsistent with the need determina- 
tions of the Central Arkansas Health Systems Plan. 


The State Health Plan is not inflexible. Both the federal 
and state law permit the maximum bed limit to be exceeded 
locally to meet exceptional conditions, which are specified as 
being (1) an unusually high proportion of persons over 65 
years old, (2) seasonal population fluctuations, (3) rural areas 
in which, for example, a majority of the residents would 
otherwise be more than 30 minutes travel time from a hospital, 
(4) urban areas having a large number of beds compensated 
by fewer beds in the same metropolitan area, and (5) areas 
having referral hospitals attracting nonresident patients. 42 
C.F.R. §121.201(a); State Health Plan, pp. 184-185. There has 
been no finding that any such exceptional condition exists. The 
independent reviewing agency referred broadly to adjustments 
for age and rural area, but there is no proof with respect to aged 
residents in the area, and the area Health Systems Plan states 
that over 90% of the population in the area lives within 30 
minutes of an existing hospital. Specifically, both the Memorial 
Hospital in North Little Rock and the Rebsamen Hospital in 
Jacksonville are within the area that Humana expects to serve. 


Thus it is established without substantial dispute that 
Humana’s application for a 150-bed hospital in an area already 


Sa 


overbedded is contrary to the Central Arkansas Health Systems 
Plan and to the State Health Plan. On this critical point the 
State Agency’s own Rule 4(d) requires that the State health 
Plan be adhered to: 

Each decision of the State Agency (or the appro- 
priate administrative or judicial review body) to issue 
a certificate of need must be consistent with the State 
Health Plan, except in emergency circumstances that 
pose an imminent threat to public health. 

Despite this rule adopted by the State Agency itself, both that = 
agency and the independent agency made what is denominated 

as a “Finding of Fact,” though it contains only what is really a 

conclusion of law: 

The application, while inconsistent with the need 
determinations of the Health Systems Plan, is con- 
sistent with the goals, objectives, and need determi- 
nations of the State Health Plan. 

There is no substantial evidence to support that finding. 
The principal goals and objectives of the entire federal and 
state program are to reduce the cost of hospital care by 
prohibiting the construction of new hospitals that would exceed 
the limit of 4 beds per 1,000 population. The application 
proposes that the limit be exceeded. It is a contradiction to 
declare the application consistent with the State Health Plan 
when in fact it is flatly and unmistakably contrary to that plan. 

Counsel for Humana do not and could not seriously argue 
that the proof supports the State Agency’s determination. 
Instead, it is contended that the federal and state laws are mere 
guidelines which the director of the State Agency is free to 
disregard if he chooses to do so. If that were true, the entire 
federal and state effort to confine the number of hospital beds 
to the target limitation would be futile, for every agency 
director would be free to ignore the limitation whenever he saw 
fit to do so. The short answer is that the laws and regutations 
specify the exceptional circumstances under which the fixed bed 
limit may be exceeded. No such exception has been demon- 
strated in this instance. 

Reversed. 

Hays, J., not participating. 


lb 


OFFICE OF THE CLERK 
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS 
ARKANSAS COURT OF APPEALS 
Lrit_e Rock 


December 12, 1983 


DONA L. WILLIAMS 
CLERK 


ROBIN HENDERSON 
CHIEF DEPUTY 


LESLIE W. STEEN 
DEPUTY 


JANIE OWEN 
DEPUTY 


VERNON L. DUTTON 
DEPUTY 


MELISSA FULLER 
DEPUTY 


DENISE SELBY 
DEPUTY 


George O. Jernigan, Jr. 
Robert D. Smith, III 
Attorneys at Law 

P. O. Box 3238 

Little Rock, AR 72203 


Robert L. Brown 
Attorney at Law 
810 Tower Building 
Little Rock, AR 72201 
George A. Harper 
Special Assistant 
Attorney General 
Justice Building 
Little Rock, AR 72201 
Re: 83-83 Statewide Health Coordinating Council et al v. 
General Hospitals of Humana, Inc. et al 


Gentlemen: 


The Court made the following order in the above styled 
case today: 


2b 


“Petitions for Rehearing are denied. Purtle, J., 
would grant. Hays, Jr., not participating.” 


Sincerely yours, 


| Dona L. Williams, Clerk 
DLW:rh 
Enclosure 
ce: J. C. Deacon 
Harold H. Simpson II 
Charles R. Nestrud 
Jacque Alexander 
W. H. “Buddy” Sutton 


3b 


SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS 


No. 83-83 


STATEWIDE HEALTH COORDINATING COUNCIL, ef al. 
Respondents. 
Vv. 


GENERAL HOSPITALS OF HUMANA, INC., ef al. 
Petitioners. 


Opinion Delivered 12/12/83 


APPEAL FROM PULASKI COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT; 
HON. JOHN LANGSTON, JUDGE. 


(PETITION FOR REHEARING) 


DISSENT 


John I. Purtle, Associate Justice. I feel we made a mistake 
in this case when we overruled the Pulaski County Circuit Court 
in affirming the decision of the state agency granting a certifi- 
cate of need to General Hospitals of Humana, Inc. to build a 
hospital in Sherwood, Arkansas. I do not question that our 
decision was a correct one under a strict construction theory. 
However, I am of the opinion that we could have adopted a less 
narrow construction and affirmed the decision of the lower 
court. 


The state agency is an arm of the state and has authority to 
bind the state when acting within the authorization granted to 
it. The state agency determined that there was need for a 
hospital in Sherwood and pursuant to its granted authority 
issued a certificate of need for construction. The other area 
hospitals intervened and unsuccessfully tried to prevent the 


J 4 
bone 


4b 


certificated from being issued. After it was granted the matter 
was appealed to the circuit court where the action of the agency 
was affirmed. Without question Humana should have waited 
on the appellate process before commencing construction but 
that is hindsight, which is always 20/20. Nevertheless, by 
proceeding, they were acting in full compliance with the law as 
evidenced by their certificate of need which had been declared 
valid. There is no question about petitioner acting in good faith 
in reliance upon the action of the state. We have held the state 
may be estopped to deny that which has previously been 
approved. Foote’s Dixie Dandy, Inc. v. McHenry Adm’r, 270 
Ark. 816, 607 S.W.2d 323 (1980). 


I agree with petitioner’s argument that federal law con- 
templates the states will on occasion issue a certificate of need 
which is not in strict compliance with the standards. The best 
evidence of this view is the law itself which is set out in 42 
U.S.C.A. § 300 M-2(c) stating: 


If a State Agency makes a decision in carrying out a 
function described in paragraph (4) [Certificate of 
need decisions ;, (5), or (6) of subsection (a) of this 
section which is not consistent with the goals of the 
applicable HSP or the priorities of the applicable 
AIP, the State Agency shall submit to the appropriate 
health systems agency a detailed statement of the 
reasons for the inconsistency. 


When provisions for its departure are included within the 
law, rule or regulation, it is not necessary for courts to create 
exceptions. If there was a departure from the formula in this 
case it appears it may have well been of the type envisioned 
when the law was enacted. 


It is obvious that we are dealing with a case of over- 
regulation here. Governments are not authorized to act except 
within the confines of the power granted to them by the people. 
I do not believe the people intended to grant the government 
the power to regulate every facet of their affairs. A less narrow 
construction of these statutes and regulations would allow the 


Sb 


state agency to depart from strict compliance, as it did in this 
case. I believe public policy requires that we interpret these 
statutes in a manner consistent with the decisions of the state 
agency, the independent agency. the Attorney General’s office 
and the circuit court. In the interest of public policy I would 
apply a very broad interpretation of these restrictive regu- 
lations. After all, the health, safety and welfare of the residents 
of north Pulaski County will be affected by this decision. 


The cost of medical care has skyrocketed within the past 
few years. Many poor and needy people can no longer afford 
even basic medical needs. It seems to me that competition will 
drive the cost of hospitalization down, not up as argued by 
respondents. Furthermore, the cost of hospitalization is not the 
only consideration involved here. Human lives may well be at 
stake in this instance; acutely ill persons who reside in northern 
Pulaski County may not survive the longer trip to other area 
hospitals. No value can be placed upon a human life but it 
seems to me the life of a north Pulaski County resident should 
be valued the same as one south of the river. As we interpret 
the laws where the health, safety and welfare of people are at 
issue, we should insure that these rights are jealously guarded, 
and that our helpless citizens are protected. The least we 
should do in this matter is to return it to the state agency in 
control for a more complete development of the facts. It may 
well be that this certificate of need was issued for valid reasons. 
I would grant rehearing. 


Shar Na ec A 
i 4 


le 


IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF 
PULASKI COUNTY, ARKANSAS, SIXTH DIVISION 


No. 82-7500 


BAPTIST MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. ef al.,. 
Petitioners, 
Vv. 


ARKANSAS HEALTH PLANNING AND 
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY, ef al, 
Respondents. 


MEMORANDUM AND ORDER 


This cause comes on to be heard on the Petitioners’ Notice 
of Appeal and Petition for Judicial Review of the Decision and 
Order of the Respondent, Ivan H. Smith, acting for the 
Independent Agency, the Division of Social Services of the 
Arkansas Department of Human Services, which affirmed after 
an administrative review the Decision and Order of The 
Arkansas Health Planning and Development Agency (‘State 
Agency”) which had granted a Certificate of Need (“CON”) 
to General Hospitals of Humana Inc. (“Humana”) for the 
construction of a 150-bed full service general hospital to be 
located in Sherwood, Arkansas. The court, having reviewed the 
pleadings, the testimony regarding irregularities not appearing 
in the record, the complete transcript and record in this matter, 
briefs submitted by counsel, and having heard arguments of 
counsel, find: 


On January 15, 1982, General Hospitals of Humana Inc., 
filed an application with the State Agency for a Certificate of 
Need to construct a new 150-bed hospital in Sherwood, 
Arkansas. 


2c 


On July 7, 1982, the State Agency approved the appli- 
cation for the CON for Humana and issued a “Conditional” 
Certificate of Need to Humana on August 5, 1982. 


Governor White appointed Mr. Ivan Smith to serve as the 
“Independent Agency” to conduct an administrative appeal on 
August 6, 1982. An administrative appeal was held, and on 
October 20, 1982, the decision of the State Agency was 
affirmed by the Independent Agency. 


This matter comes before this Court for judicial review 
following the decision of the Independent Agency. 


The Petitioners have done an excellent job of arguing that 
the Humana application is not consistent with the State Health 
Plan, and more specifically, that the Arkansas Health Planning 
Law and State Agency regulations require the approval of the 
Statewide Health Coordinating Council (“SHCC”) before a 
CON can be issued. 


In regard to the latter argument of the petitioners, petition- 
ers rely on Ark. Stat. Ann. §82-2311(a), which provides: 


“The State Health Planning and Development 
Agency, with the advice, consent and approval of the 
Statewide Health Coordinating Council is hereby 
authorized and directed to implement the below 
described Certificate of Need in this state.” 


They further rely on Rule | of the State Agency Rules: 


“In the performance of its functions, the State 
Agency acts with the advice, consent and approval of 
the Statewide Health Coordinating Council appoint- 
ed by the Governor.” 


It is the principal argument of the Petitioners that SHCC 
approval is mandatory for the State Agency to be able to issue 
the Certificate of Need. The Court does not find this to be true. 


It should be first noted that Ark. Stat. Ann. §82-2311(a) 
does not speak of SHCC approval as a prerequisite to the 
issuance of a Certificate of Need. It states that the advice, 
consent and approval of the Statewide Health Coordinating 


3c 


Council is hereby authorized and directed to implement the 
“Certificate of Need Program in this State.” (emphasis added ). 


Reading the Statute in its entirety, it should be noted that 
other paragraphs are specific in statiug that bed need and 
existing facilites are to be considered in making their decision, 
but that no one consideration is absolutely determinative. 
Specifically, Paragraph (b) states that a certificate of need shall 
be obtained from the State Health Planning and Development 
Agency prior to any construction. Paragraph 9(d) specifically 
states that the Agency shall issue a CON “If it finds that the 
proposed project requiring approval is reasonably neces- 
sary...” (emphasis added), and then goes on to list 13 areas 
of consideration, including: 


(4) The availability and adequacy of health care 
services in facilities which are currently serving the 
defined population and which conform to State stan- 
dards.” 


The Statute seems to generally state the same thing again 
in Paragraph (f) when it states: 


“In the administration of this Act, consideration shall 
be given to the efficiency of the utilization of an 
existing health facility which is or will be serving the 
defined population to be served by a proposed new 
health facility...” 


These two paragraphs, (4) and (f), make it obvious that 
the State Agency only takes bed need into consideration and 
that the determination of SHCC in this regard is only advisory, 
rather than mandatory, and under the provisions of Paragraph 
(d) that it is the State Agency that considers these criteria and 
makes the determination as to the issuance of a Certificate of 
Need. 


Petitioners also rely upon the National Health Planning 
and Resource Development Act, Section 1517(a)(5), 42 
U.S.C. Section 300m-6(a)(5), which provides: 


“(5) The “certificate of need” program shall provide 
that...(b) each decision to issue a certificate of 


4c 


need (i) may only be issued by the State Agency and 
(ii) shall . . . be consistent with the State Health Plan 
in effect for such state.” 


Petitioners further state that State Agency Rule 4(d) also 
states the same rule: 


“(d) Each decision of the State Agency . . . to issue a 
certificate of need must be consistent with the State 
Health Plan...” 


However, the State Health Plan states its purpose on page 
iii of the Plan to be: 


“(5) To guide the actions of the Statewide Health 
Coordinating Council and the State Health Planning 
and Development Agency in their performance of 
required functions under P.L. 93-641 and Act 558 of 
1975.” 


Again Ark. Stat. Ann. §82-2311, Section 5(d) states that 
the Agency: 


“Shall issue a certificate of need if it finds that the 
proposed project requiring approval is reasonably 
necessary...” 


The Statute then goes on to state what the Agency shall take 
into consideration. It allows the State Agency to make its own 
decision as to what is the relationship of the proposal to the 
Health Systems Plans and the State Health Plans. It does not 
direct the State Agency to absolutely accept the determination 
of SHCC in this regard. 


The clear policy is that the Certificate of Need decision 
belongs only to the State Agency after considering the criteria 
set out in the Statute. 


Petitioners further contend that a preponderance of the 
evidence reflects that the State Agency acted arbitrarily and 
capriciously in granting the Certificate of Need upon the 
evidence presented. This Court does not try an administrative 
appeal de novo but instead determines whether the State 


Sc 


Agency’s actions were arbitrary and capricious. Independence 
Savings & Loan Association v. Citizens Federal Savings and 
Loan Association, 265 Ark. 203, 577 S.W.2d 390 (1977). The 
contention that the State Agency’s actions was arbitrary and 
capricious must be addressed with a more narrow standard of 
review. Administrative action may be regarded as arbitrary 
and capricious only where it is not supportable on any rational 
basis. First National Bank of Fayetteville v. Smith, 508 F.2d 
1371 (8th Cir. 1974); White County Guaranty Savings and 
Loan v. Farmers and Merchants Bank, 262 Ark. 893, 562 
S.W.2d 582 (1978). 


In reviewing the record, it is notable that the Independent 
Agency, in its decision, did consider each of the 13 requirements 
set out by Ark. Stat. Ann. §82-2311(d) and made specific 
findings of fact and conclusions of law upon each of the 13 
enumerated considerations. 


The testimony of Dr. Kelly Mosely, an expert witness, is 
particularly notable in considering the adequacy of the evidence 
presented to the State Agency. He states, at Page 169 of the 
transcript: 

“In the particular case of North Pulaski, Lonoke, 

Faulkner, Prairie Counties, the State Plan has identi- 

fied medical(ly) underserved areas through the 

Department of Health and Human Services that 

forty-five point eight percent (45.8%) of the popu- 

lation perhaps could be classified as medical(ly) 
underserved. This has to do with the development 

and identification of lack of resources in combination 

with aged and poverty population.” 


and, at Page 170 of the transcript: 


“The finding was that perhaps over fifty percent 
(50%) were seeking medical care outside their com- 
munity.” 


6c 


The State Agency was not limited by the recommendations 
of the SHCC since consideration was given to the recommenda- 
tions of the SHCC, and even though the SHCC must give its 
consent and approval to the planning document and to the rules 
and regulations, the State Agency has the discretion to issue a 
certificate of need based on its findings and its interpretation of 
the rules and the planning documents. 


After considering the decision and order of the State 
Agency in its entirety and reviewing the testimony and exhibits 
appearing in the record, I find sufficient evidence in the record 
to reasonably support the actions of the State Agency in issuing 
a Certificate of Need to Humana, and to support the affirmance 
of that action by the Independent Agency that reviewed its 
decision. 


In conclusion, the Court finds t1ere was substantial evi- 
dence of record to support the de‘ision and order of the 
Independent Agency, which is the final decision of the State 
Agency under the State Agency Rule 11(13), which was made 
after due consideration of all relevant criteria under the Ar- 
kansas Health Planning Act and State Agency Rules and that 
the correct procedure was followed. The Court further finds 
that the administrative findings, inferences, conclusions and 
decision are not: 


1) in violation of constitutional or statutory provi- 
,  $ions; 

2) in excess of the statutory authority of the Inde- 
pendent Agency or the State Agency; 

3) made upon unlawful procedure; 

4) affected by other error or law; 

5) arbitrary, capricious or characterized by abuse of 
discretion. 


The Court recognizes that the SHCC has an important 
interest in the outcome of this proceeding, in particular its 
interest in its jurisdiction, in the State Health Plan, and in the 
procedures followed in this and future CON reviews. The 
SHCC’s arguments are of the type that should be reviewed at 


7c 


the appellate level. Therefore, the SHCC should remain a party 
to this proceeding and the SHCC’s motion to be realigned as a 
petitioner in accordance with its interest should be granted. 


IT IS, THEREFORE, CONSIDERED, ORDERED and 
ADJUDGED, that the SHCC be and hereby is a party to this 
proceeding, and is realigned as a petitioner in accordance with 
its interest, that the decision and order of the Independent 
Agency affirming the decision and order of the State Agency to 
issue a CON to Humana is affirmed; the temporary stay of the 
order of the Independent Agency granted by this Court on 
November 12, 1982, is hereby set aside, effective December 28, 
1982. 


Entered nunc pro tunc to December 28, 1982, this 28th day 
of January, 1983. 


JOHN LANGSTON 
Circuit Judge 


ld 


BEFORE THE DIVISION OF SOCIAL SERVICES 
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS 


BAPTIST MEDICAL SYSTEMS, ST. VINCENT INFIRMARY, 
ARKANSAS BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD, INC. 
Plaintiffs 
vs. 


ARKANSAS STATE HEALTH PLANNING AND 
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY, ef ai. 
Defendants 


DECISION AND ORDER 
INTRODUCTION 


Now on this 25th day of August, 1982 comes on to be 
heard for Administrative Review, the decision of the Arkansas 
State Health Planning and Development Agency to issue a 
certificate of need to Humana, Inc. to construct a new one 
hundred fifty (150) bed hospital in Sherwood, Arkansas. 


By agreement of all parties, the hearing was continued 
until October 13, 1982. Briefs were submitted by all parties on 
September 30, 1982. Reply briefs were submitted on October 
8, 1982, and oral arguments were presented on October 13, 
1982, 


This review is conducted by authority of Rule 11(13) of 
the Procedures for State Agency review promulgated by the 
Arkansas Health Planning and Development Agency. The 
hearing officer is sitting as a State Agency designated by the 
Governor pursuant to the Arkansas Health Planning and 
Development rules. 


2d 
FINDINGS OF FACT 


1. The Health Development rules require only an adminis- 
trative review of the decision of the Health Planning Agency. 
The interpretation of this rule by the State Agency does not 
provide for a de novo hearing, but only for a review of the 
decision of the State Agency. 


2. The Administrative Procedures Act, at Ark. Stat. Ann. 
§5-708, does not require a de novo hearing on an Adminis- 
trative Review of the agency’s determination, but does require 
conformity to certain procedures, all of which have been 
followed in this hearing as outlined below: 


A. All parties were afforded an opportunity for a 
hearing after reasonable notice. The notice included the 
time, place and nature of the hearing. 


B. A statement of the legal authority and jurisdiction 
under which the hearing was to be held was given. 


C. A short, plain statement of matters of fact and laws 
asserted was given, and each party was given an opportu- 
nity to question all matters of fact contained in the record 
and all law asserted. 


D. An opportunity was afforded parties to respond 
and present evidence and arguments on all issues involved 
with the restriction that an offer of evidence must relate to 
the procedures or further proffered with evidence as to why 
the evidence was either prohibited or not given in a 
hearing before the Agency. The record included: 


1) All pleadings, motions, and intermediate ru- 
lings, 
2) Evidence received or considered, including, on 


request of any party, a transcript of oral proceedings 
or any part thereof, 


3) A statement of matters officially noticed, 
4) Offers of proof, objections and rulings thereon, 
5) Proposed findings and exceptions thereto, 


3d 


6) All staff memoranda or data submitted to the 
hearing officer or memvers of an agency in connection 
with their consideration of the case. 


E. Findings of fact in this hearing are based ex- 
clusively on the evidence and all matters officially noticed. 


3. The Arkansas State Health Planning and Development 
Agency was established under Act 558 of 1975 which was 
amended by Act 808 of 1981. 


4. The State Health Planning and Development Agency, 
with the advice, consent and approval of the Statewide Health 
Coordinating Council was authorized and directed to imple- 
ment a certificate of need program for the State of Arkansas. 
The program was promulgated in June of 1980 pursuant to this 
enabling act. 


5. The State Health Plan provides on page iii: 


“... the State Health Plan was designed to assist in 
the decision making process relative to conductance 
of the State Certificate of Need Program.” 


6. Page 3 of the State Plan provides that there are five (5) 
major purposes of a State Plan. These are: 


1) To be the basis for development of a coordinated 
and comprehensive approach, over time, to the identi- 
fication and resolution of health problems in the State. 


2) To offer guidance to State government in the 
development and articulation of State health and health 
related policies (by the Governor, legislature and other 
State officials ). 


3) To offer guidance in resource allocation decisions 
in support of State health policy so that, as far as possible, 
equal access to quality health care at a reasonable cost in 
the State can be achieved, and denied to no groups or 
individuals. 

4) To serve as an instrument for cost containment by 
preventing wasteful duplication of facilities and services, 
encouraging utilization of appropriate levels of care, and 


4d 


by fostering health education, prevention, and early inter- 

vention as necessary and economical alternatives to crisis 

medicine. 

5) To guide the actions of the Statewide Health 
Coordinating Council and the State Health Planning and 
Development Agency in the performance of their required 
functions under P.L. 93-641 and Act 558 of 1975. 

7. Section 121.201 of the National Guidelines for Health 
Planning provides that there should be less than four non- 
Federal, short-stay hospital beds for each 1,000 persons in a 
health service area except under extraordinary circumstances 
and proceeds to set our (sic) five exceptions to this rule. 
Exceptions involve conditions that may be adjusted within the 
discretion of the State Health Planning Agency (sic). 

8. Section 5(d) of Act 558 of 1975. provides: 

“The Agency shall issue a certificate of need if it finds 

that the proposed project requiring approval is rea- 

sonably necessary to provide health care to the 

defined population in a manner which is economic- 

ally practicable, which maintains high quality stan- 

dards, and which is appropriate to the timely and 

economic development of adequate and effective 
health services in the area. In making such determi- 
nation, the Agency shall take into consideration: 

(1) Recommendations of the appropriate 
Health Systems Agency(s). 

(2) The relationship of the proposal to the 
Health Systems Plans and the State Health 
Plans. 

(3) The need for health care services in the 
area or the requirements of the defined popu- 
lation. 

(4) The availability and adequacy of health 
care services in facilities which are currently 
serving the defined population and which con- 
form to State standards. 

(5) The need for special equipment and 
services in the areas which are not reasonably 


Sd 


and economically accessible to the defined popu- 
lation. 


(6) The need for research and educational 
facilities. 


(7) The probable economics and improve- 
ment in service that may be derived from the 
operation of joint central services or from joint, 
cooperative, or shared health resources which 
are accessible to the defined population. 


(8) The availability of sufficient manpower 
in the professional disciplines required to main- 
tain the facility. 


(9) The plans for and development of 
comprehensive health services and facilities for 
the defined population to be served. Such 
services may be either direct or indirect through 
formal affiliation with other health programs in 
the area and shall include preventive, diagnostic, 
treatment, and rehabilitation services. 


(10) Whether or not the applicant has 
obtained all relevant approvals, licenses or con- 
sents required by law for its incorporation or 
establishment. 


(11) The needs of members, subscribers 
and enrollees of institutions and health care 
plans which operate or support particular hospi- 
tals for the purpose of rendering health care to 
such members, subscribers and enrollees. 


(12) In the case of an application by a 
hospital established or operated by a religious 
body or denomination, the needs of the mem- 
bers of such religious body or denomination for 
care and treatment in accordance with their 
religious or ethical convictions may be consid- 
ered to be public need. 


6d 


(13) The proposed facility will be ade- 
quately funded.” 


9. The law places the authority to issue a certificate of 
need upon the State Agency, and this decision may be made 
without the consent and approval of the Statewide Health 
Coordinating Council. 


10. On August 5, 1982 the Arkansas Health Planning and 
Development Agency issued a conditional Certificate of Need 
to General Hospitals of Humana, Inc. 


11. The Arkansas State Health Plan and Development 
Agency did consider the thirteen requirements set out in Ark. 
Stat. Ann. §82-2311(d) as outlined below: 


1) Recommendations of the Area Health Plan- 
ning Authority. 


FINDINGS OF FACT 


The recommendations of the Areawide Health Planning 
Authorities were considered. The board’s recommendation was 
disregarded after the Health Planning Agency considered: 


a) The conflicting opinions within the Board, 


b) That there was an obvious conflict of interest by 
some of the Board members who did not disqualify 
themselves from voting even though they admitted the 
conflict of interest, 


c) The Board did have the opportunity to hear all 
relevant information that had been presented to the HSA 
committee during its review, and 

d) The Health Planning and Development Agency 
had additional testimony presented to it under cross- 
examination during a state hearing which allowed it to 
have more complete information on which to make a 
Lecisi 


7d 
CONCLUSION OF LAW 


The reviewing authority finds that the recommendations of 
the Areawide Health Planning Authorities were considered and 
properly disregarded from the findings of facts which the 
reviewing authority adopts. 


2) The relationship of the proposal of (sic) the Areawide 
Health Plan. 


FINDINGS OF FACT 


The relationship of the Humana application to the Area- 
wide Health Plan was discussed in a two day hearing at which 
time counsel for the various parties presented evidence on all 
avenues of possible consistencies and possible inconsistencies 
between the proposal and the plan. From this hearing the State 
Agency made the following findings: 


a) All applicable state certificates of need and proce- 
dures were adhered to, 


b) The application as submitted, adequately ad- 
dressed all but one of the twenty-one review criteria, 


c) The application, while inconsistent with the need 
determinations of the Health System Plan, is consistent 
with the goals, objections, and need determinations of the 
State Health Plan. 


CONCLUSION OF LAW 


After review of all materials, the reviewing authority finds 
that there was sufficient evidence to uphold all findings of the 
State Agency; and, upon a review of the record, further adopts 
and makes these findings its own. 


3) The need for health care services in the area of the 
requirements of the defined population. 


8d 
FINDINGS OF FACT 


The State Agency made the following findings regarding 
the need for services: 


a) A rapid population growth has occurred in the 
defined area and a relatively large concentration of people 
exists in said area, 


b) The demonstration of need in itself addresses the 
issue of duplication and renders the issue a positive 
consideration, 


c) The SHPDA considered the use and proximity of 
the hospitals within the defined area and found that the 
projected need would offset any adverse affect (sic) on the 
area’s hospitals, 


d) The integrity of the State acute care bed need plan 
is maintained and the decision does not affect existing need 
determinations as published and promulgated. 


CONCLUSION OF LAW 


a) The reviewing authority finds that there was 
sufficient evidence to support the above four findings and 
adopts the findings made by the State Agency. 


b) Four general areas were discussed in the review 
hearing. These areas of discussion were thoroughly briefed 
by all parties. They include: 

1) The designation of the service area. The 
reviewing authority finds the service area as such is 
not restricted by the State Plan as long as it is 
consistent with the various requirements of the federal 
and state laws and regulations. The reviewing author- 
ity finds that when the conditions which requires (sic ) 
adjustments are considered, including the age of the 
population, and the fact that the area includes rural 
areas, that a proper designation of a service area was 
made. 


9d 


2) The project (sic, “projection”) of further 
needs, including bed space within the service area. 
The reviewing authority finds that proper consid- 
eration was made of the needs by the State Agency 
when consideration was given to operational beds 
rather than licensed bed space. By considering only 
licensed beds consideration is given to beds that were 
licensed, but not yet constructed, to phantom beds and 
to beds that were built but unstaffed. Since many of 
the licensed beds were not available in the hospitals 
the number of licensed beds does not give a true 
picture to the public of the bed space that is available. 
The above factors result in a bed occupancy rate that 
is a lower rate than the federal standards even though 
actual bed space is not available to the public that 
needs admission to the hospital. 

3) Whether the agency was limited in its deter- 
mination to issue a certificate of need either by the 
recommendations of the Statewide Health Coordina- 
tion (sic) Council or by the State Health Plan. 


The reviewing authority finds that the Agency 
was not limited by the recommendations of either the 
Council or the Plan since consideration was given to 
the recommendations of the council and this reviewing 
agency determines that even though the council must 
give its consent and approval to the planning docu- 
ment and to the rules and regulations, that the State 
Agency has the discretion to issue a certificate of need 
based on its findings and its interpretation of the rules 
and the planning documents. 


4) Whether the Federal Act and/or State Plan 
limits in any way the discretion of the State Health 
Planning Agency (sic) in issuing its certificate of need. 

The reviewing authority finds that the limitation 
to (sic) the State Agency must be found in a violation 
of the requirements of the Federal Act and/or State 
Plan and the reviewing authority finds no violation. 
The Federal Act and State Plan offer only guidelines 
that were followed by the State Agency. 


10d 


4) The availability and adequacy of health services in 
facilities which sre currently servicing the defined population 
which conforms to state standards. 


FINDINGS OF FACT 


The State Agency found that there are currently 388 
licensed and approved beds in the service area, leaving an 
unmet need between 104 and 186 beds, or an average of 145. 


CONCLUSION OF LAW 


a) The reviewing authority finds that the Health 
Planning Agency did consider at greath [sic] length the 
availability and adequacy of health care services in the 
facility, both in the proposed area and the central Arkansas 
HSA Area; that the availability of the facility in the area 
involved considerable speculation regarding growth of the 
area and whether or not the outmigration of certain areas 
of the proposal would occur. Since this is speculative, the 
reviewing authority finds that there were sufficient facts 
presented from which the State Agency and the reviewing 
authority could conclude that a certificate of need should 
be issued. 


b) The reviewing authority further finds that the 
Health Services are not being adequately provided in the 
rural part of the proposed service area; that there is a rapid 
growth occurring in the defined area and that the existing 
facilities are not now taking care of the health services in 
this area. Whether or not the proposed hospital can 
prevent an out-migration of patients in certain areas 
continues to be speculative, but since the need does exist 
the reviewing authority concludes that a certificate of need 
should be issued to the proposed hospital to try to adequat- 
ely meet these needs. 


5) The need for special equipment and services in the area 
which are not reasonably and economically accessible to the 
defined population. 


lld 
FINDINGS OF FACT 


The State Agency found that the determination of need as 
evaluated in the SHPDA is consistent with the Statewide Health 
Coordinating Council guidance for determining need and is 
based on the population and analysis of use patterns. 


CONCLUSION OF LAW 


The reviewing agency finds that the Health Planning 
Agency took into consideration the needs for special equipment 
and that the needs for special equipment were normally taken 
care of by the Tertiary level service hospitals in Little Rock 
which were related primarily to the question of outmigration, 
and that the special needs were considered by the State Agency 
in making their decision. 


6) The needs for research and education facilities. 


FINDINGS OF FACT 


The State Agency addressed in its written opinion only 
those points that required explanation with the statement that 
those points not addressed were either not applicable or ade- 
quately addressed in the application. 


CONCLUSION OF LAW 


The needs for educational facilities were considered by 
State Agency (sic) to the extent of the application proposals. 
There was no allegation of need for research facilities and the 
educational facilities were directed primarily to the local needs 
of staffing the NCCH facility. 

7) The probably [sic] economics and improvements in 
services that may be derived from the operation of joint central 
service or from joint, cooperative, or shared health resources 
which are accessible to the defined population. 


12d 
FINDINGS OF FACT 


The State Agency found that the projected need for the 
new facility would offset any adverse effect on the area hospi- 
tals. In reaching this decision the State Agency properly found 
that: 


1) Currently and in the future inpatient services will 
not be locally accessible to many residents of the service 
area unless additional inpatient resources are provided. 
NCCH will provide hospital resources which are accessible 
to residents of North Pulaski, Prairie, Faulkner and Lo- 
noke Counties. 


2) Presently many residents in the proposed area of 
service are forced to seek routine medical care outside of 
their local community because adequate quantities of 
inpatient services are not available. 


3) NCCH will contribute to the accomplishment of 
the established Central Arkansas Health Systems Plan 
goals of development, a comprehensive emergency service 
system in the service area. 


CONCLUSION OF LAW 


The reviewing authority reaches the same conclusion and 
adopts the agency findings. 


8) The availability of sufficient manpower in the profes- 
sional disciplines required to maintain the facility. 


FINDINGS OF FACT 


a) While not making a specific findings (sic), the 
State Agency concluded that this criteria was adequately 
addressed, 


b) Humana offered testimony that they would initiate 
a major recruitment program approximately one year prior 
to the opening of the hospital, 


13d 


c) Humana will transfer from within their organiza- 
tion of over ninety (90) hospitals those personnel who 
wish to move to Little Rock from other areas of the 
country, 


d) There are 447 registered nurses per one hundred 
thousand (100,000) population in the State of Arkansas, 


e) There are 790 registered nurses per one hundred 
thousand (100,000) population in the area to be serviced 
by the proposed hospital, 


f) The national average of RN’s per one hundred 
thousand population is 523, 


g) The Baptist Medical Center’s application for addi- 
tional beds was withdrawn after they alleged that there 
was sufficient manpower in the professional discipline to 
maintain an additional 120 beds, 


h) The number of graduates in the Little Rock SMCA 
School of Nursing since 1948 shows almost a 36% increase 
from 1978 to 1981, 


i) Humana, Inc. has an established practice and 
procedure for nurse recruitment, plus a mobil transfer 
corps of approximately one hundred nurses which could be 
used to assure an adequate supply of registered nurses. 


j) After a full hearing, the State Agency considered 
the availability of manpower question and considered the 
availability to be sufficient. 


CONCLUSION OF LAW 


This Agency finds that there was sufficient evidence 
presented to not only convince the State Agency but also the 
reviewing authority that sufficient manpower remains available 
in the area to adequately staff the proposed hospital. The 
reviewing authority, therefore, adopts the above findings of fact 
of the State Agency. 


9) The plans for and development of comprehensive 
health services and facilities for the defined population to be 


14d 


served. Such services may be either direct or indirect through 
formal affiliation with other health programs in the area and 
shall include preventive, diagnostic, treatment and rehabilita- 
tion services. 


FINDINGS OF FACT 


The State Agency found that the determination of need as 
evaluated by the SHPDA is consistent with the Statewide 
Health Coordination (sic) Council guidance for determining 
need and is based on the population and analysis of use 
patterns. 


CONCLUSION OF LAW 


a) The reviewing authority finds that the State Agency 
determination of need was evaluated for the defined 
population to be served and adopts the State Agency’s 
findings. 

b) The State Agency’s evaluation was consistent with 


the Statewide Health Coordination (sic) Council guidance 
for determining need. 


10) Whether or not the applicant has obtained all relevant 
approvals, licenses or consents required by law for its in- 
corporation or establishment. 


FINDINGS OF FACT 


The State Agency found in their review process that all 
applicable state and federal criteria, state and local health 
plans, and other information presented was in keeping with 
state law, federal law, state rules and regulations. 


CONCLUSION OF LAW 


The reviewing authority finds that applicant has obtained 
all relevant approvals, licenses or consents required by law for 
its incorporation. 


15d 


11) The needs of members, subscribers and enrollees of 
institutions and health care plans which operate or support 
particular hospitals for the purpose of rendering health care to 
such members, subscribers and enrollees. 


There was no need for the State Agency to consider this 
point since the application was for a general hospital to serve 
the entire service area and was not limited to rendering health 
care to any particular religious or partisan group. 


12) In the case of an application by a hospital established 
or operated by a religious body or denomination, the needs of 
the members of a religious body or denomination for care and 
treatment in accordance with their religious or ethical con- 
victions may be considered to be public need. 


There was no need for the State Agency to consider this 
point since the application was for a general hospital to serve 
the entire service area and was not limited to rendering health 
care to any particular religious or partisan group. 


13) The proposed facility will be adequately funded. 


FINDINGS OF FACT 
The State Agency found that the facility would be proper- 
ly funded from corporation funds. 
CONCLUSION OF LAW 
The reviewing authority finds that the corporation will be 
adequately funded. 
DECISION 


The final conclusions of the reviewing authority are as 
follows: 


The decision of the Arkansas State Health Planning and 
Development Agency should be affirmed, since it is based upon 


16d 


substantial evidence of record and was made pursuant to the 
laws, rules, regulations, standards, and criteria governing the 
Arkansas State Health Planning and Development Agency. 


Based upon a review of the entire record the reviewing 
authority finds that the twenty-one review criteria specified 
under Rule 13 criteria (sic) for the State Agency's review have 
been considered. Not all points are relevant to this hearing, but 
all points have been considered and the record reflects substan- 
tial evidence to support the ultimate finding of SHPDA that the 
certificate of need should be issued. 


From a review of all of the record, briefs, reply briefs and 
argument, the reviewing authority does hereby affirm the 
decision of the Arkansas State Health Planning and Devel- 
opment Agency. 


IVAN H. SMITH 

Director of Legal Services 
Arkansas Social Services 
Reviewing Agency 


FAG ee ART ng NET ey) Same, ee iad a 
ge 
A. 
, 
; 
> 
r 
é 


a i ae oe ee 
te 4 es OW eR ee ee OA ee Reo 


le 


THE ARKANSAS STATE HEALTH PLANNING AND 
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY 


In Re: Application of General 
Hospitals of Humana, Inc., 
Sherwood, Arkansas 


A. Review: The Arkansas State Planning and Devel- 
opment Agency (SHPDA) reviewed oral and written presenta- 
tions by means of application, public hearings and other 
communications concerning the referenced proposed hospital. 
In the review process the SHPDA considered all applicable 
State and Federal criteria, State and local health plans and 
other information presented in the course of review. 


1. Of the applicable review criteria, each were 
adequately addressed by the applicant with the exception 
of need which will be discussed at length under Section B, 
Assessment in this paper. The remainder of the criteria 
that require explanation are included in that same section 
( assessment ). 


2. State and local health plans are addressed in the 
assessment section under the criteria review with ex- 
planation. 

3. Other information not previously considered and 
submitted in the course of review are noted in the assess- 
ment section. 

B. Assessment: SHPDA consideration, evaluation, and 
analysis of the presented arguments and statistical information 
are contained herein. The assessment is based on documented 
material filed and maintained by the SHPDA. 


1. Review Criteria: The content of this portion of the 
written opinion contains only those that require ex- 
planation. It is understood that those not addressed herein 
were either not applicable or adequately addressed in the 
application. 


2e 


a) Relationship to the State Health Plan (SHP) 
and Health Systems Plan—the SHP does not delineate 
new service areas but rather defines need based on 
existing services (sic) areas. A written policy of the 
SHP includes the changes allowable when new and/or 
updated information is available. The introduction of 
a mew service area not previously considered falls 
under this policy. 


The Health Systems Plan is not applicable in this 
instance, in that during the development process of 
the SHP, the Health Systems Agency was undergoing 
phaseout activities based on federal directives that 
local health planning organizations would be dis- 
solved. The Health Systems Agency as a result did 
not update or revise their most current HSP (1980), 
nor did the HSA provide input to the current SHP. 


b) Need of the Population—The application 
specified that Faulkner, Lonoke, Prairie and North 
Pulaski Counties (Hill Township) comprise the ser- 
vice area for the three existing hospitals and the one 
proposed hospital. Analysis of use patterns of the 
population in the geographic area does not support 
the inclusion of Faulkner and Prairie Counties. Less 
than two percent (2%) of the discharges of these area 
hospitals were to each of Prairie and Faulkner Coun- 
ties. Considering the factors influencing patient use 
(referrals, transportation arteries, services provided, 
and others), a significant portion of Lonoke and 
North Pulaski County will be served by facilities in 
this area. With the (sic) consideration, it appears 
reasonable to estimate that the service area population 
will be approximately 203,680 in 1986. This projec- 
tion is based on the high rate of growth through the 
area (25.4% over the last ten years including the 
community of Sherwood where the facility is to be 
constructed which had a growth rate of 284.4%). 
Assuming a total service area of 205,000 which in- 
cludes the 2% population of Faulkner and Prairie 
Counties previously mentioned at 4 beds per 1,000 


3e 


population as established by the Statewide Health 
Coordinating Council, a total of 820 beds would be 
required to adequately serve the population. Recog- 
nizing that 20-30% of the population require tertiary 
level services and that an undeterminable percentage 
of the people would continue to out-migrate ior 
primary and secondary level services, it is reasonable 
to estimate that about 30-40% of the people would 
seek care outside the defined area. Therefore, approx- 
imately 123,000 to 143,500 people by 1986 would 
require between 492 to 574 beds at 4 beds per 1,000 
population. There are currently 388 licensed and 
approved beds in the area, leaving an unmet need 
between 104 and 186 beds; or an average of 145. 


2. Health Systems Agency Recommendation—The 
SHPDA attended and reviewed the information and dis- 
cussion of the HSA and its committee addressing the 
Humana application. While the Board voted to recom- 
mend disapproval of the proposed hospital, the Facilities 
Review Committee recommended approval of the same 
proposal. Considering the conflicting opinions within the 
Board and the information presented to the HSA Com- 
mittee and the Board, it is the opinion of this agency that 
the Board did not have an opportunity to hear all relevant 
information as had the committee during its review meet- 
ing. Further, the SHPDA conducted a State hearing 
allowing affected and interested parties to testify and 
present evidence across cross-examination. The duration 
of the hearing exceeded sixteen (16) hours and substantial 
and exhaustive testimony was heard and later examined by 
the SHPDA. 


C. Findings: The conclusions and final decisions of the 
SHPDA were based on considerations presented herein as well 
as other information and/or on file. The decision to approve 
the Humana application is based on the following: 


1. All applicable State Certificate of Need rules and 
procedures were adhered to; 


te 


2. The application as submitted adequately addressed 
all but one of the twenty-one review criteria; 


3. The application while inconsistent with the need 
determinations of the Health Systems Plan is consistent 
with the goals, objectives and needs determination of the 
State Health Plan; 


4. The determination of need as evaluated by the 
SHPDA is consistent with the Statewide Health Coordina- 
ting Council guidance for determining need and is based 
on the population and analysis of use patterns. (The 
SHPDA does not find with the HSA staff or applicants 
analysis of need for beds) (sic); 


5. The HSA Board did not have an opportunity to 
hear presentations from representatives of the proposed 
facility as did the HSA Committee and the SHPDA; 


6. A rapid population growth has occurred in the 
defined area, and a relatively large concentration of people 
exists in said area; 

7. The demonstration of need in itself addresses the 
issue of duplication and renders the issue a positive 
consideration; 

8. The SHPDA considered the use and proximity of 
the hospitals within the defined service area and found that 
the projected need would offset any adverse affect (sic) on 
the area’s hospitals; 

9. The integrity of the State acute care bed need plan 
is maintained and the decision does not affect existing need 
determinations as published and promulgated. 
Signed/Joel E. North, Director, July 7, 1982 


If 


Orrice OF THE CLERK 
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS 
ARKANSAS COURT OF APPEALS 
LittLe Rock 


December 12, 1983 


DONA L. WILLIAMS 
CLERK 


ROBIN HENDERSON 
CHIEF DEPUTY 


LESLIE W. STEEN 
DEPUTY 


JANIE OWEN 
DEPUTY 


VERNON L. DUTTON 
DEPUTY 


MELISSA FULLER 
DEPUTY 


DENISE SELBY 
DEPUTY 


Robert D. Smith, III 
Attorney at Law 

P. O. Box 3238 

Little Rock, AR 72203 


Robert L. Brown 
Attorney at Law 

810 Tower Building 
Little Rock, AR 72201 


Re: 83-83 Statewide Health Coordinating Council et al v. 
General Hospitals of Humana, Inc. et al 


Gentlemen: 


The Court made the following order in the above styled 
case today: 


2f 


~ellees’ motion for stay of mandate is granted. 
Purt.., J., would deny.” 


Sincerely yours, 


Dona L. Williams, Clerk 


DLW:rh 

ce: George Harper 
W. H. “Buddy” Sutton 
J. C. Deacon 
Charles R. Nestrud 
Harold H. Simpson, II 
Jacque Alexander 


lg 
STATUTES AND REGULATIONS IN PERTINENT PART 


42 U.S.C. § 3001 Health service areas 
Requirements; factors considered in establishing boundaries 


(a) Except as provided in section 300n-5 of this title, there 
shall be established, in accordance with this section, health 
service areas throughout the United States with respect to 
which health systems agencies shall be designated under section 
3001-4 of this title. Each health service area shall meet the 
following requirements: 


(1) The area shall be a geographic region appropri- 
ate for the effective planning and development of health 
services determined on the basis of factors including 
population and the availability of resources to provide all 
necessary health services for residents of the area. 


Notice to State governors; publication in Federal Register; 
boundary designations: revision, review by Secretary; 
consultations; hearing 


(b)(1) Within thirty days following January 4, 1975, the 
Secretary shall simultaneously give to the Governor of each 
State written notice of the initiation of proceedings to establish 
health service areas throughout the United States. Each notice 
shall contain the following: 


(A) A statement of the requirement (in subsection 
(a) of this section) of the establishment of health service 
areas throughout the United States. 


(B) A statement of the criteria prescribed by subsec- 
tion (a) of this section for health service areas and the 


procedures prescribed by this subsection for the designa- 
tion of health service area boundaries. 


(C) A request that the Governor receiving the notice 
(i) designate the boundaries of health service areas within 
his State, and, where appropriate and in cooperation with 
the Governors of adjoining States, designate the bound- 
aries within his State of health service areas located both in 


2g 


his State and in adjoining States, and (ii) submit (in such 
form and manner as the Secretary shall specify) to the 
Secretary, within one hundred and twenty days of January 
4, 1975, such boundary designations together with com- 
ments, submitted by the entities referred to in paragraph 
(2), with respect to such designations. 


At the time such notice is given under this paragraph to each 
Governor, the Secretary shall publish as a notice in the Federal 
Register a statement of the giving of his notice to the Governor 
and the criteria and procedures contained in such notice. 


§300/-1. Health systems agency 
Definition 


(a) For purposes of this subchapter, the term “health 
systems agency” means an entity which is organized and 
operated in the manner described in subsection (b) of this 
section and which is capable, as determined by the Secretary, of 
performing each of the functions described in section 300/-2 of 
this title. The Secretary shall by regulation establish standards 
and criteria for the requirements of subsection (b) of this 
section and section 300/-2 of this title. 


Legal structure; staff; governing body; responsibilities; 
composition; selection; support; conflict of interest; 
limitation of liability; exception; 
acceptance of contributions; public meeting; 
invasion of privacy; reports; accounting procedures; 
access to information 


(b)(1) A health systems agency for a health service area 
shall be— 


(A) a nonprofit private corporation (or similar legal 
mechanism such as a public benefit corporation) which is 
incorporated in the State in which the largest part of the 
population of the health service area resides, which is not a 
subsidiary of, or otherwise controlled by, any other private 
or public corporation or other legal entity, and which only 
engages in health planning and development functions; 


3g 


(B) a public regional planning body if (i) it has a 
governing board composed of a majority of elected offi- 
cials of units of general local government or it is authorized 
by State law (in effect before January 4, 1975) to carry out 
health planning and review functions such as those de- 
scribed in section 300/-2 of this title, and (ii) its planning 
area is identical to the health service area; or 


(C) a single unit of general local government if the 
area of the jurisdiction of that unit is identical to the health 
service area. 


A health systems agency may not be an educational institution 
or Operate such an institution. 


(3)(A) A health systems agency which is a public regional 
planning body or unit of general local government shall, in 
addition to any other governing body, appoint a governing 
body for health planning in accordance with subparagraph (C) 
which shall have the responsibilities prescribed by subpara- 
graph (B), and which shall have exclusive authority to perform 
the functions described in section 300/-2 of this title. Any other 
health systems agency shall have a governing body composed, 
in accordance with subparagraph (C), of not less than ten 
members and of not more than thirty members, except that the 
number of members may exceed thirty if the governing body 
has established another unit (referred to in this paragraph as an 
“executive committee”) composed, in accordance with 
subparagraph (C), of not less than ten members and not more 
than thirty members of the governing body and has delegated 
to that unit the authority to take such action (other than the 
establishment and revision of the plans referred to in subpara- 
graph (B)(ii)) as the governing body is authorized to take. 


(C) The membership of the governing body and the 
executive committee (if any) of an agency shall meet the 
following requirements: 

(i) A majority (but not more than 60 per centum of 
the members) shall be (I) residents of the health service 


4g 


area served by the entity who are consumers of health care 
and who are not providers of health care, and (II) broadly 
representative of the health service area and shall include 
individuals representing the principal social, economic, 
linguistic, handicapped, and racial populations and geo- 
graphic areas of the health service area and major pur- 
chasers of health care (including labor organizations and 
business corporations) in the area. (ii) The remainder of 
the members shall be residents of, or have their principal 
place of business in, the health service area served by the 
agency who are providers of health care and who represent 
(1) physicians ( particularly practicing physicians) dentists, 
nurses, optometrists, (II) podiatrists, physician assistants, 
and other health professionals health care institutions 
( particularly hospitals, long-term care facilities, rehabilita- 
tion facilities, alcohol and drug abuse treatment facilities, 
and health maintenance organizations), (III) health care 
insurers, (IV) health professional schools, (V) the allied 
health professions, and (VI) other providers of health 
care. Not less than one-half of the providers of health care 
who are members of the governing body or executive 
committee of a health systems agency shall be direct 
providers of health care (as described in section 300n(3) 
of this title) and of such direct providers of health care, at 
least one shall be a person engaged in the administration 
of a hospital. 


§300/-2. Functions of health systems agencies 


Health Systems and Annual Implementation Plans; 
establishment; requirements; review 
(b) In providing health planning and resources devel- 
opment for its health service area, a health systems agency shall 
perform the following functions: 
(1) The agency shall assemble and analyze data 
concerning — 
(A) the status (and its determinants) of the 
health of the residents of its health service area, 


Sg 


(B) the status of the health care delivery system 
in the area and the use of that system by the residents 
of the area, 


(C) the effect the area’s health care delivery 
system has on the health of the residents of the area, 


(D) the number, type, and location of the area’s 
health resources, including health services, manpower, 
and facilities, 


(E) the patterns of utilization of the area’s 
health resources, and 


(F) the environmental and occupational ex- 
posure factors affecting immediate and long-term 
health conditions. 


The agency shall also assemble and report to the Secretary such 
data (including data on the personnel, facilities, and other 
resources needed to meet the goals set forth in the agency’s 
health system plan) as the Secretary may require to carry out 
his responsibilities under section 300k-1(e) of this title. The 
Secretary may not require the assembling and reporting of data 
under this paragraph which is regularly collected by an entity of 
the Department of Health and Human Services under a provi- 
sion of law other than this subchapter. In carrying out this 
paragraph, the agency shall to the maximum extent practicable 
use existing data (including data developed under Federal 
health programs) and coordinate its activities with the coopera- 
tive system provided for under section 242k(e) of this title. 


(2) The agency shall, after appropriate consideration 
of the recommended national guidelines for health plan- 
ning policy issued by the Secretary under section 300k-1 of 
this title, the priorities set forth in section 300k-2 of this 
title, and the data developed pursuant to paragraph (1), 
established (in accordance with the format established 
pursuant to section 300m-3(c)(1) of this title), at least 
triennially review, and amend as necessary a health sys- 
tems plan (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to as the 
“HSP”) which shall be a detailed statement of goals (A) 
describing a healthful environment ( primarily with regard 


68 


to health care equipment and to health services provided 
by health care institutions, health care facilities, and other 
providers of health care and to other health resources ) and 
health systems in the area which, when developed, will 
assure that quality health services will be available and 
accessible in a manner which assures continuity of care, at 
reasonable cost, for all residents of the area; (B) which are 
responsive to the unique needs and resources (including 
entities described in section 300n-1(c)(7) of this title) of 
the area; (C) which take into account the national guide- 
lines for health planning policy issued by the Secretary 
under section 300k-1 of this title respecting supply, dis- 
tribution, and organization of health resources and ser- 
vices; (D) which are responsible to statewide health needs 
as determined by the State health planning and devel- 
opment agency; (E) which describe the institutional health 
services ( as defined in section 300n( 5) of this title) needed 
to provide for the well-being of persons receiving care 
within the health service area, including, at a minimum, 
acute inpatient (including psychiatric inpatient, obstetrical 
inpatient, and neonatal inpatient), rehabilitation, and 
long-term care services; and (F) which describe other 
health services needed to provide for the well-being of 
persons receiving care within the health service area, 
including, at a minimum, preventive, ambulatory, and 
home health services and treatment for alcohol and drug 
abuse. 


§300m. Designation of State health pli .aning and development 
agencies 


Authority of Secretary to enter into agreements 


(a) For the purpose of the performance within each State 
of the health planning and development functions prescribed 
by section 300m-2 of this title, the Secretary shall enter into and 
renew agreements (described in subsection (b) of this section) 
for the designation of a State health planning and development 
agency for each State. 


7g 


Agreement for designation; conditional designation; 
extension, termination, and expiration of agreement; 
renewals; return to conditional designation status 

(b)(1) A designation agreement under subsection (a) of 
this section is an agreement with the Governor of a State for the 
designation of an agency (selected by the Governor) of the 
government of that State as the State health planning and 
development agency (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to 
as the “State Agency”) to administer the State administrative 
program prescribed by section 300m-1 of this title and to carry 
out the State’s health planning and development functions 
prescribed by section 300m-2 of this title. 


§300m-1. State administrative program 


Requisite features of program 
(b) The State Program of a State must- 


(1) provide for the performance within the State 
(after the designation of a State Agency and in accordance 
with the designation agreement) of the functions pre- 
scribed by section 300m-2 of this title and specify the State 
Agency of the State as the sole agency for the performance 
of such functions (except as provided in subsection (b) of 
such section) and for the administration of the State 
Program; 


§300m-2. State health planning and development functions 
Performance by State agency of State designated under 
section 300m(b)(3) of this title 

(a) Each State Agency of a State designated under section 
300m(b)(3) of this title shall, except as authorized under 
subsection (b) of this section, perform within the State the 
following functions: 

(4)(A) Serve as the designated planning agency of 
the State for the purposes of section 1320a-1 of this title if 


the State has made an agreement pursuant to such section, 
and (B) administer a State certificate of need program 
which applies to the obligation of capital expenditures 
within the State and the offering within the State of new 
institutional health services and the acquisition of major 
medical equipment and which is consistent with standards 
established by the Secretary by regulation. A certificate of 
need program shall provide for procedures and penalties to 
enforce the requirements of the program. In performing its 
functions under this paragraph the State Agency shail 
consider recommendations made by health systems 
agencies under section 300/-2(f) of this title. 


(5) After consideration of recommendations sub- 
mitted by health systems agencies under section 300/-2(f) 
of this title respecting new institutional health services 
proposed to be offered within the State, make findings as to 
the need for such services. 


Statement 


(c) If a State agency makes a decision in carrying out a 
function described in paragraph (4), (5), or (6) of subsection 
(a) of this section which is not consistent with the goals of the 
applicable HSP or the priorities of the applicable AIP, the State 
Agency shall submit to the appropriate health systems agency a 
detailed statement of the reasons for the inconsistency. 


$300m-3. Statewide Health Coordinating Council 
Advisory function 


(a) A State health planning and development agency 
designated under section 300m of this title shall be advised by a 
Statewide Health Coordinating Council (hereinafter in this 
section referred to as the “SHCC”) which (1) is organized in 
the manner described by subsection (b) of this section, and (2) 
performs the functions listed in subsection (c) of this section. 


a 


9g 


Membership; chairman; conduct of meetings 


(b)(1) A SHCC of a State shall be composed in the 
following manner: 


(A)(i) A SHCC shall have no fewer than sixteen 
representatives (or if the number of representatives on the 
SHCC to which health systems agencies are entitled under 
the second sentence of clause (iii) is less than sixteen, no 
fewer than the number to which they are entitled) appoint- 
ed by the Governor of the State from lists of nominees 
submitted to the Governor by each of the health systems 
agencies designated for health service areas which fall, in 
whole or in part, within the State. Each agency shall 
submit a number of nominees to the Governor which is at 
least twice the number of representatives on the SHCC to 
which the agency is entitled. 


(ii) Each such health systems agency shall be entitled 
to the same number of representatives on the SHCC, 
except that the number of representatives on the SHCC to 
which a health systems agency designated for a health 
service area which is not entirely within the State shall be a 
number which is based on the relationship of the popu- 
lation of the portion of such health service area within the 
State to the population of the largest health service area 
located entirely within the State, except that each such 
agency shall be entitled to at least one representative on 
the SHCC. 


(iii) Except as otherwise provided in clause (ii) and 
this clause, each such health systems agency shall be 
entitled to at least two representatives on the SHCC. If 
there are more than ten health systems agencies within a 
State, each health systems agency within such State shall 
be entitled to at least one representative on the SHCC. Of 
the representatives of health systems agencies on the 
SHCC, not less than one-half shall be individuals who are 
consumers of health care and who are not providers of 
health care. 


(B) In addition to the appointments made under 
subparagraph (A), the Governor of the State may appoint 


10g 


such persons (including State officials, public elected offi- 
cials, and other representatives of governmental authorities 
within the State) to serve on the SHCC as he deems 
appropriate; except that (i) the number of persons ap- 
pointed to the SHCC under this subparagraph may not 
exceed 40 per centum of the total membership of the 
SHCC, and (ii) a majority of the persons appointed by the 
Governor shall be consumers of health care who are not 
also providers of health care. 


(C) Not less than one-half of the providers of health 
care who are members of a SHCC shall be direct providers 
of health care (as described in section 300n(3) of this 
title ). 


(D) Where one or more hospitals or other health 
care facilities of the Veterans’ Administration are located 
in a State, the SHCC shall, in addition to the appointed 
members, include, as a nonvoting, ex officio member, an 
individual whom the Chief Medical Director the Veterans’ 
Administration shall have designated as a representative of 
such facilities. 


(E) Members of the SHCC who are consumers of 
health care and who are not providers of health care shall 
include individuals who represent rural and urban medi- 
cally underserved populations if such populations exist in 
the State. 


Other functions 
(c) A SHCC shall perform the following functions: 


(1) Establish (in consultation with the hedlth systems 
agencies in the State and the State Agency) a uniform 
format for HSP’s and review and coordinate at least 
triennially the HSP and review at least annually the AIP of 
each health systems agency within the State and report to 
the Secretary, for purposes of his review under section 
300n-4(c) of this title, its comments on such HSP and AIP. 


(2)(A) Prepare, review at least triennially, and 
revise as necessary a State health plan which shall be made 


llg 


up of the HSP’s of the health systems agencies within the 
State. Such plan may, as found necessary by the SHCC, 
contain revisions of such HSP’s to achieve their appropri- 
ate coordination or to deal more effectively with statewide 
health needs as determined by the State Agency of the 
State. The plan shall also describe the institutional! health 
services (as defined in section 300n( 5) of this title) needed 
to provide for the well-being of persons receiving care 
within the State, including, at a minimum, acute inpatient 
(including psychiatric inpatient, obstetrical inpatient, and 
neonatal inpatient), rehabilitation, and long-term care 
services; and also describe other health services needed to 
provide for the well-being of persons receiving care within 
the State, including, at a minimum, preventive, ambula- 
tory, and home health services and treatment for alcohol 
and drug abuse. The plan shall also describe the number 
and type of resources, including facilities, personnel, major 
medical equipment, and other resources required to meet 
the goals of the plan and shall state the extent to which 
existing health care facilities are in need of modernization, 
conversion to other uses, or closure and the extent to which 
new health care facilities need to be constructed or ac- 
quired. Each health systems agency which participates in 
the SHCC shall make available to the SHCC its HSP for 
integration into the State health plan and shall, as required 
by the SHCC, revise its HSP to achieve appropriate 
coordination with HSP’s of the other agencies which 
Participate in the SHCC or to deal more effectively with 
statewide health needs as determined by the State Agency 
of the State. 


$300m-6. Certificate of need program 


Determination of need for equipment and services; 
criteria for review of application; timetable for 
delivery of equipment and services; 
withdrawal of certificate; maximum 
amount of capital expenditures; review of changes 


12g 


(a) The certificate of need program required by section 
300m-2(a)(4)(B) of this title shall, in accordance with this 
section, provide for the following: 


(1) Review and determination of need under such 
program for— 


(A) major medical equipment and institutional 
health services, and 


(B) capital expenditures, 


shall be made before the time such equipment is acquired, 
such services are offered, substantial expenditures are 
undertaken in preparation for such offering, or capital 
expenditures are obligated. 


(2) The acquisition and offering of only such equip- 
ment and services as may be found by the State Agency to 
be needed; and the obligation of only those capital ex- 
penditures found to be needed by the State Agency. 
Except as otherwise authorized by this section, review 
under the program of an application for a certificate of 
need may not be made subject to any criterion and the 
issuance of a certificate of need may not be made subject to 
any condition unless the criterion or condition directly 
relates to— 


(A) criteria prescribed by section 300n-1(c) of 
this title, 

(B) criteria prescribed by regulations of the 
Secretary promulgated under section 300n-l(a) of 
this title before October 4, 1979, or 

(C) criteria prescribed by regulation by the State 
Agency in accordance with an authorization pre- 
scribed by State law. 


The Secretary may not require a State to include in its 
program any criterion in addition to criteria described in 
subparagraphs (A) and (B). 


(3) An application for a certificate of need for an 
institutional health service, medical equipment, or a capital 


13g 


expenditure shall specify the time the applicant will require 
to make such service or equipment available or to obligate 
such expenditure and a timetable for making such service 
or equipment available or obligating such expenditure. 
After the issuance of a certificate of need, the State Agency 
shall periodically review the progress of the holder of the 
certificate in meeting the timetable specified in the ap- 
proved application for the certificate. If on the basis of 
such a review the State Agency determines that the holder 
of a certificate is not meeting such timetable and is not 
making a good faith effort to meet it, the State Agency 
may, after considering any recommendation made by the 
health systems agency which received a report from the 
State Agency on such review, withdraw the certificate. 


(4) In issuing a certificate of need, the State shall 
specify in the certificate the maximum amount of capital 
expenditures which may be obligated under such certifi- 
cate. The program shall, in accordance with regulations 
promulgated by the Secretary, prescribe the extent to 
which a project authorized by a certificate of need shall be 
subject to further review if the amount of capital ex- 
penditures obligated or expected to be obligated for the 
project exceed the maximum specified in the certificate of 
need. 


(5) The program shall provide that (A) the require- 
ments of section 300n-1! of this title shall apply to proceed- 
ings under the program, and (B) each decision to issue a 
certificate of need (i) may only be issued by the State 
Agency, and (ii) shall, except in emergency circumstances 
that pose a threat to public health, be consistent with the 
State health plan in effect for such State under section 
300m-3(c) of this title. 


14g 


§300n-1. Procedures and criteria for review of proposed 
health system changes 


Development and publication 


(a) ln conducting reviews pursuant to subsections (¢), (f), 
and (g) of section 300/-2 of this title or in conducting any other 
reviews of proposed or existing health services, each health 
systems agency shall (except to the extent approved by the 
Secetary ) follow procedures, and apply criteria, developed and 
published by the agency in accordance with regulations of the 
Secretary; in performing its review functions under section 
300m-2 of this title, a State Agency shall (except to the extent 
approved by the Secretary) follow procedures, and apply 
criteria, developed and published by the State Agency in 
accordance with regulations of the Secretary; and in performing 
its review functions a Statewide Health Coordinating Council 
shall (except to the extent approved by the Secretary) follow 
procedures and apply criteria developed and published by the 
Council in accordance with regulations of the Secretary. Proce- 
dures and criteria for reviews by health systems agencies, State 
Agencies, and Statewide Health Coordinating Councils may 
vary according to the purpose for which a particular review is 
being conducted or the type of health services being reviewed. 
Health systems agencies, the State Agency, and, if appropriate, 
the Statewide Health Coordinating Council within each State 
shall cooperate in the development of procedures and criteria 
under this subsection to the extent appropriate to the achieve- 
ment of efficiency in their reviews and consistency in criteria for 
such reviews. The Secretary shall review at least annually 
regulations promulgated under this section and provide 
opportunity for the submission of comments by health systems 
agencies, State Agencies, and Statewide Health Coordinating 
Councils on the need for the revision of such regulations. At 
least forty-five days before the initial publication of a regulation 
proposing a revision in a regulation of the Secretary under this 

the Secretary shall, with respect to such proposed 
with and solicit the recommendations from 
agencies, State Agencies, and Scatewide Health 
Councils. 


; 
f 


Coordinating 


15g 


Minimum procedures 


(b) Each health systems agency, State Agency, and 
Statewide Health Coordinating Council shall include in the 
procedures required by subsection (a) of this section at least 
the following: 


(12) The following procedural requirements with 
respect to proceedings under a certificate of need program: 


(D) The program shall provide that each deci- 
sion of the State Agency to issue, not to issue, or to 
withdraw a certificate of need or to approve or 
disapprove an application for an exemption under 
section 300m-6(b) of this title shall, upon request of 
any person directly affected by such decision, be 
reviewed under an appeals mechanism consistent with 
State law governing the practices and procedures of 
administrative agencies or, if there is no such State 
law, by an entity (other than the State Agency) 
designated by the Governor. 


(E) Any person adversely affected by a final 
, decision of a State Agency with respect to a certificate 
aa of need or an application for an exemption under 
section 300m-6(b) of this title and a health systems 
agency if the decision respecting the certificate of need 
is inconsistent with a recommendation made by the 
agency to the State Agency with respect to the certifi- 
cate of need may, within a reasonable period of time 
after such decision is made (and any administrative 
review of it completed ), obtain judicial review of it in 
an appropriate State court. The decision of the State 
Agency shall be affirmed upon such judicial review 
unless it is found to be arbitrary or capricious or not 

made in compliance with applicable law. 


16g 


Minimum Criteria 
(c) Criteria required by subsection (a) of this section for 
health systems agency, State Agency, and Statewide Health 
Coordinating Council review shall include consideration of at 
least the following: 

(1) The relationship of the health services being 
reviewed to the applicable HSP, AIP, and State health 
plan. 

(2) The relationship of services reviewed to the long- 
range development plan (if any) of the person providing 
or proposing such services. 

(3) The need that the population served or to be 
served by such services has for such services. 

(4) The availability of alternatives, less costly, or 
more effective methods of providing such services. 

(5) The relationship of services reviewed to the 
existing health care system of the area in which such 
services are provided or proposed to be provided. 

(6) In the case of health services proposed to be 
provided — 

(A) the availability of resources (including 
health manpower, management personnel, and funds 
for capital and operating needs) for the provision of 
such services, 

(B) the effect of the means proposed for the 
delivery of such services on the clinical needs of health 
professional training programs in the area in which 
such services are to be provided, 

(C) if such services are to be available in a 
limited number of facilities, the extent to which the 
health professions schools in the area will have access . 
to the services for training purposes, 

(D) the availability of alternative uses of such 
resources for the provision of other health services, 
and 

(E) the extent to which such proposed services 
will be accessible to all the residents of the area to be 
served by such services. 


17g 


(7) The special needs and circumstances of those 
entities which provide a substantial portion of their services 
or resources, or both, to individuals not residing in the 
health service areas in which the entities are located or in 
adjacent health service areas. Such entities may include 
medical and other health professions schools, multidiscipli- 
nary clinics, specialty centers, and such other entities as the 
Secretary may by regulation prescribe. 


(8) The special needs and circumstances of health 
maintenance organizations. 


(9) In the case of a construction project— 


(A) the costs and methods of the proposed 
construction, including the costs and methods of 
energy provision, and 


(B) the probable impact of the construction 
project reviewed on the costs of providing health 
services by the person proposing such construction 
project and on the costs and charges to the public of 
providing health services by other persons. 


(10) The special circumstances of health service in- 
stitutions and the need for conserving energy. 


(11) In accordance with section 300k-2(b) of this 
title, the factors which affect the effect of competition on 
the supply of the health services being reviewed. 


(12) Improvements or innovations in the financing 
and delivery of health services which foster competition, in 
accordance with section 300k-2(b) of this title, and serve 
to promote quality assurance and cost effectiveness. 


(13) In the case of health services or facilities pro- 


posed to be provided, the efficiency and appropriateness of 
the use of existing services and facilities similar to those 


proposed. 


(14) In the case of existing services or facilities, the 
quality of care provided by such services or facilities in the 


18g 


The criteria established by any health systems agency, State 
Agency, or Statewide Health Coordinating Council under para- 
graph (8) shal) be consistent with the standards and procedures 
established by the Secretary under section 300e-5(c) of this 
title. 


19g 


42 C.F.R. §121.201 (1983) General hospitals—bed supply. 


(a) Standard. There should be less than four non- 
Federal, short-stay hospital beds for each 1,000 persons in a 
health service area except under extraordinary circumstances. 
For purposes of this section, short-stay hospital beds include all 
non-federal short-stay hospital beds (including general medi- 
cal/surgical, children’s, obstetric, psychiatric, and other short- 
stay specialized beds). Conditions which may justify adjust- 
ments to this ratio for a health service area include: 


(1) Age. Individuals 65 years of age and older have 
a higher hospital utilization rate—up to four times that of 
the general population—than any other age group. Bed- 
population ratios for health service areas in which the 
percentage of elderly people is significantly higher (more 
than 12 percent of the population) than the national 
average may be planned at a higher ratio, based on 
analyses by the HSA. 


(2) Seasonal population fructuations. Large seasonal 
variations in hospital utilization may justify higher ratios. 
Plans should reflect vacation and recreation patterns as 
well as the needs of migrant workers and other factors 
causing usual seasonal variations. 

(3) Rural areas. Hospital care should be accessible 
within a reasonable period of time. For example, in rural 
areas in which a majority of the residents would otherwise 
be more than 30 minutes travel time from a hospital, the 
HSA may determine, based on analyses, that a bed- 
population ratio of greater than 4 per 1,000 persons may 
be justified. 


20g 


(5) Areas with referral hospitals. In the case of 
referral institutions which provide a substantial portion of 
specialty services to individuals not residing in the area, the 
HSA may exclude from its computation of bed-population 
ratio the beds utilized by referred patients who reside 
outside both the SMSA and the HSA in which the facility is 


located. 


Office - = 
FILED 


APR 10 (984 


No. 83-1493 aeissen ys C 
— 


In The ae 
Supreme Court of the United States 


October Term, 1983 


sy 
as 


GENERAL HOSPITALS OF HUMANA, INC., 
Petitioner, 


vs. 


ARKANSAS STATEWIDE HEALTH 
COORDINATING COUNCIL, et al., 


Respondents. 


, = 


PETITION FOR A 'T OF CERTIORARI 
TO THE Sv: «@ME COURT 
OF THE STA‘) UF ARKANSAS 


.* 
4 


RESPONDENT STATEWIDE HEALTH 
COORDINATING COUNCIL'S BRIEF IN OPPOSITION 


7 = 
Ww 


J. C. Deacox 
Barrett, Waeatiter, Suita 

& Deacox 
600 Citizens Bank Building 
Jonesboro, Arkansas 72403-4057 
(501) 932-6694 


Attorneys for Respondent, 
Statewide Health 
Coordmating Council 


COCKLE LAW BRIEF PRINTING CO., (800) 835-7427 Ext 335 


i 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Pages 
TABLE OF AUTHORITIES 
INTRODUCTION 
IDENTIFICATION OF INTEREST 
LEGISLATIVE BACKGROUND 
REASONS FOR DENYING THE WRIT: 


A. THE. DECISION BELOW DOES NOT IM- 
POSE A MANDATORY FEDERAL STAND- 
ARD, UPON STATE HEALTH PLANNING 
ACTIVITIES BECAUSE IT IS FOUNDED 
UPON INDEPENDENT AND ADEQUATE 
STATE GROUNDS 4 


The Federal Laws Demonstrate That The 
Decision Below Could Not Have Been Made 
Upon Federal Law Grounds 5 


A Conflict Among State Courts Is Not A 
Ground For Granting Certiorari ee 


B. THE DECISION BELOW DOES NOT 
DENY HUMANA DUE PROCESS BE- 
CAUSE IT ONLY REQUIRES THE 
AHPDA TO EXERCISE ITS DISCRETION 
WITHIN THE BOUNDS OF ADOPTED 
STANDARDS 9 


The Roles Of The CAHSA And The SHCC 
Do Not Conflict With The Role Of The 
AHPDA 10 


The Procedure For Adopting And 


no -—- - 


Amending 
The State Health Plan Is Not Unconstitu- 


_———=_— 


TABLE OF AUTHORITIES 


Pages 
CasEs : 


American International Health Services, Inc. v. 
Rhode Island Department of Health, No. 77- 
3474 (R.L Super Ct., Prov. Cty., September 11, 
1978), cert. den. 396 A.2d 945 (R.I.1979) ss B 


Butler Brothers v. McColgan, 315 U.S. 501 (1942) _._ 14 


Fairfield Nursing Home v. Whalen, 407 N.Y.S.2d 
304 (App. Div. 1978) 8 


Goodin v. Oklahoma Welfare Commm., 436 F.Supp. 


583 (W.D. Okla. 1977) 6 
Hamling v. United States, 418 U.S. 87 (1974) 14 
Herb v. Pitcairn, 324 U.S. 117 (1945) 5 
Holley v. Lawrence, 317 U.S. 518 (1943) 13 
In Re: Certificate of Need Application by the Beth- 

any Medical Center, 630 P.2d 1136 (Kan. 1981)... 8 
In Re: Review of Decision of Kansas Corporation 

Commission, 232 Kan. 787, 659 P.2d 199 (1983) _.._ 8 
Irvington General Hospital v. Department of 

Health, 149 N.J. Super. 461, 374 A.2d 49, 51 

(App. Div. 1977) - 
Jankovich v. Indiana Toll Road Comm., 379 U.S. 

487 (1965) 6 
Live Oak Water Users Association v. Railroad 

Commission, 269 U.S. 354 (1926) 10 


Minnesota v. National Tea Co., 309 U.S. 551 (1940) 7 


Missouri ex rel. Southern Ry. Co. v. Mayfield, 340 
U.S. 1 (1950) 6 


National Geremedical Hospital v. Blue Cross, 452 
US. 378 (1961) Ne 8 


iii 
TABLE OF AUTHORITIES—Continued 


Pages 
Northwest Health Care, Inc. v. Idaho Health Facili- 

ties Review Board, No. 76772 (Idaho District 

Court, Ada County, January 27, 1983) 7 
Oklahoma v. United States Civil Service Comm., 

330 U.S. 127 (1947) 6 
Saunders v. Shaw, 244 U.S. 317, 320 (1917) 13,14 
Simon v. Cameron, 337 F.Supp. 1380 (C.D. Cal. 

1970) 11 


State of North Carolina v. Califano, 445 F.Supp. 
532 (E.D. N.C. 1977) 


State Taz Comm. v. Van Cott, 306 U.S. 511 (1939) 6 


Sturman v. Ingraham, 52 A.D.2d 882, 383 N.Y.S. 
2d 60, 64 (Sup. Ct. Div. 1976) 8 


Tarpon Springs General Hospital v. Office of 
Community Medical Facilities, 366 So.2d 185 


(Fla. App. 1979) 8 
Tracy v. Startwout, 35 U.S. (10 Pet.) 80 (1833) 1 
United States ex rel. K.C.S. Ry. Co. v. Interstate 

Commerce Comm., 252 U.S. 178, 187 (1920) 11 
Village of Herkimer v. Axelrod, 451 N.Y.8.2d 303 

(1982) 6 


West Virginia Health Systems Agency, Inc. °. 
State Health Planning and Development Agency, 
CIV-NO. AP-CA-80-1 (W. Va. Cir. Ct., Kanawha 


County, July 2, 1980) 7 
Women's Re et gd ne wig 

Inc. vo. Texas H Facilities Commission, 685 

F.2d 974 (5th Cir. 1982) 6 


* 
a 


iv 


TABLE OF AUTHORITIES—Continued 


STaTUrTeEs: 

Pages 
1969 Ark. Acts, Act 305 43 3 
Ark. Stat. Ann. §$82-2307 (1983 Supp.) 4, 11, 13 
Ark. Stat. Ann. $82-2309(a) 10 
Ark. Stat. Ann. $82-2311 (1983 Supp.) 000000004 
Pub. L. No. 88-443 2,3 
Pub. L. No. 89-749 3 
Pub. L. No. 93-641 3 
Pub. L. No. 96-79 fice” 
27 U.S.C. $1257 (7 
42 U.S.C. $201 4 
42 U.S.C. §300m-2(c) 8 
42 U.S.C. $300m-3(c) 10 
42 U.S.C. $300m-6(a) (5) 8 
42 U.S.C. $300n-1(b) (12) (E) 7 
Reovuations : 
AHPDA Rule 4(d) 4, 8, 9,11, 13 
AHPDA Rule 11(10) 8 
42 C.F.R. $121.201(a) 5 
42 C.F.B. Part 123 4 


v 


TABLE OF AUTHORITIES—Continued 
OTHER: 


Pages 
Arkansas State Health Plan, June 1980 _.. _._._._.passim 


Sen. Rep. No. 1274, 88th Cong., Ist Sess.; [1964] 
U.S. Code Cong. & Ad. News 2802 


ad 


No. 83-1493 


In The 
Supreme Court of the United States 


October Term, 1983 


Baas 
— 


GENERAL HOSPITALS OF HUMANA, INC., 
Petitioner, 


vs. 


ARKANSAS STATEWIDE HEALTH 
COORDINATING COUNCIL, et al., 


Respondents. 


— * 
Ci .: 


PETITION FOR A WRIT OF CERTIORARI 
TO THE SUPREME COURT 
OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS 


.* 
~~ 


RESPONDENT STATEWIDE HEALTH 
COORDINATING COUNCIL’S BRIEF IN OPPOSITION 


,. 
Ww 


INTRODUCTION 
Identification of Interest 


This Respondent, the Statewide Health Coordinating 
Council (SHCC), an agency of the State of Arkansas, sub- 
mits its brief solely in the public interest. The SHCC is 
a thirty-six member board comprised of health care ex- 
perts, including both health care providers and health care 


1 


2 


consumers, all of whom are appointed by the Governor to 
represent various interest groups. 


The cost of health care is of vital concern to the gen- 
eral public. Experience has proven that competition does 
not bring down hospital costs. Excess hospital beds are 
empty beds, and “an empty bed costs about half as much 
to maintain as an occupied bed.” (Arkansas Supreme 
Court Opinion, Humana Appendix la). Patients in all 
hospitals pay for these empty beds. That is why health 
planning became the subject of legislation several years 
ago. The Arkansas General Assembly chose to join in the 
effort and created its own program to control the cost of 
health care in Arkansas. The decision below is evidence 
of the progress Arkansas has made. 


Legislative Background 

In 1964 Congress enacted the Hospital and Medical 
Facilities Amendments of 1964, Pub. L. No. 88-443 (codi- 
fied at 42 U.S.C. $243, et seq.) which provided over one 
billion dollars in grants per year for four years for the 
construction and modernization of hospitals and other 
medical facilities. Congress decided that it should increase 
its efforts to allocate health care facilities to those areas 
most in need. As a result, an emphasis was placed on 
areawide planning to insure “against the use of public 
and private resources to construct facilities which are not 
needed or are poorly located.” Sen. Rep. No. 1274, 88th 
Cong., Ist Sess.; [1964] U.S. Code Cong. & Ad. News 2802. 


To accomplish that purpose, Congress provided that 
any state that wanted to participate in the grant program 
would be required to conduct areawide planning, which 


3 


included the establishment of a “state advisory council.” 
The council would establish the health care needs for the 
state by surveying the need for new facilities and by de- 
veloping a plan for distribution of such facilities through- 
out the state. Pub. L. No. 88-443, §604(a) (4). The plan 
would then be carried out by a state agency which would 
work in consultation with its advisory council. Pub. L. 
No. 88-443, §604(a) (3). 


The federal law was further amended in 1966 to pro- 
vide grants for state health planning efforts. Pub. L. No. 
89-749. In 1969 the Arkansas Legislature established the 
“Comprehensive State Health Planning Agency” to ad- 
minister the federal funds that had become available for 
health planning, and it established the State Health Plan- 
ning Council to “advise the agency in carrying out the 
functions of the agency.” 1969 Ark. Acts, Act 305, 43. 


By 1974 it became apparent to Congress that the na- 
tion’s health planning efforts were still not effectively con- 
trolling health care costs and that excessive hospital beds 
were the leading contributor to the rise. As a result, in 
1974 a move was made to replace the existing regulatory 
program through the adoption of the National Health 
Planning and Resources Development Act of 1974, Pub. L. 
No. 93-641 (codified at 42 U.S.C. $201, et seg.). That law 
was the precursor to Arkansas’ current health planning 
laws. 


Pub. L. No. 93-641, as amended by Pub. L. No. 96-79, 
now provides approximately 100 million dollars annually 
in grants for state health planning. Participation in the 
program is optional, and at least two states (Louisiana 
and New Mexico) have chosen not to participate. Re- 


4 


ceipt of the federal health planning grant money is con- 
ditioned upon having an approved program, the para- 
meters of which are provided in the federal laws and regu- 
lations. 42 U.S.C. §201, et seq.; 42 C.F.R. Part 123. For 
example, the states are required to form regional 
Health Systems Agencies (“HSA’s,” of which there are 
four in Arkansas). The Health Systems Agencies then 
develop regional health care priorities in an effort to pre- 
vent unnnecessary duplication of services and facilities 
within their respective geographical areas which was per- 
formed in this case by the Central Arkansas Health Sys- 
tems Agency (“CAHSA”). The regional planning efforts 
are co-ordinated and consolidated into one comprehensive 
State Health Plan adopted by the SHCC. The State 
Health Plan is then enforced by requiring health care pro- 
viders to obtain a Certificate of Need from the administra- 
tive state agency, the Arkansas Health Planning and De- 
velopment Agency (“AHPDA”) prior to commencing con- 
struction of “major new facilities.” Ark. Stat. Ann. §82- 
2311 (1983 Supp.). A Certificate of Need may only be 
issued if the proposal is “in conformity” with the State 
Health Plan (Ark. Stat. Ann. §82-2307 (1983 Supp.) ), or as 
stated in the state Certificate of Need Rules “consistent 
with the State Health Plan.” AHPDA Rule 4(d).' 


REASONS FOR DENYING THE WRIT 


A. THE DECISION BELOW DOES NOT IM- 
POSE A MANDATORY FEDERAL STAND- 
ARD UPON STATE HEALTH PLANNING 


'Policies, Procedures and Criteria For Certificate of Need Re- 


ogres oye? and New Institutional 
view, Capital Expendity , referred to as “AHPDA Rules”. 


5 


ACTIVITIES BECAUSE IT IS FOUNDED 
UPON INDEPENDENT AND ADEQUATE 
STATE GROUNDS. 

Humana asserts that the issue presented on appeal is 
based upon federal law because the decision below refers 
to the four beds per 1,000 population standard (which 
Humana calls a “guideline”) found in federal regulations. 
42 C.F.R. $121.201(a) (1983). However, an analysis of 
the opinion does not support the claim. In both instances 
in which the Arkansas Supreme Court referred to the four 
beds per 1,000 population standard it provided both the 
federal regulation and the Arkansas State Health Plan 
reference to the standard. When the court held that the 
agency’s decision had to be consistent with the State 
Health Plan, it gave a reference to the AHPDA Rules. 
Finally, when the court held that there was “no substan- 
tial evidence” that the application did not exceed the “state 
maximum of four beds per 1,000 persons” it relied upon 
Arkansas administrative procedure decisions. This court 
has no jurisdiction to review a decision such as the one 
below which is based upon non-federal grounds. Herb v. 
Pitcairn, 324 U.S. 117 (1945). 


The Federal Laws Demonstrate That The Decision 
Below Could Not Have Been Made Upon Federal 
Law Grounds. 

Since the Arkansas Supreme Court clearly relied upon 
duly adopted state laws and regulations, the only juris- 
dictional claim this court may assert is one based upon a 
coexistence of federal and non-federal grounds. Where 
the state court bases its decision upon state and federal 
grounds federal jurisdiction only attaches “when the lower 
court opinion as a whole leaves the impression that the 
[lower] court . . . felt under compulsion of federal law 


as enunciated by [federal law] so to hold .. . with the re- 
sult that the state and federal grounds are so interwoven 
that [the United States Supreme Court is] unable to con- 
clude that the judgment rests upon an independent inter- 
pretation of the state law.” Jankovich v. Indiana Toll 
Road Comm., 379 U.S. 487 (1965); State Tax Comm. v. 
Van Cott, 306 U.S. 511 (1939); Missouri ex rel. Southern 
Ry. Co. v. Mayfie'd, 340 U.S. 1 (1950). 


The state standards upon which the lower court re- 
lied are par’ of a voluntary grant program, and the fact 
that the Department of Health and Human Services may 
terminate Arkansas’ right to participate in the grant pro- 
gram has been held to be not coercive. State of North 
Carolina v. Califano, 445 F.Supp. 532 (E.D. N.C. 1977); 
Goodin v. Oklahoma Welfare Comm., 436 F.Supp. 583 
(W.D. Okla. 1977). Cf. Oklahoma v. United States Civil 
Service Comm., 330 U.S. 127 (1947). Further, although 
the standard is based upon a similar federal regulation, 
there is no federal preemption or supremacy involved 
which could have created a feeling of compulsion by the 
Arkansas Supreme Court to rule as it did. Village of 
Herkimer v. Axelrod, 451 N.Y.S.2d 303 (1982); Women’s 
Community Health Center of Beaumont, Inc. v. Texas 
Health Facilities Commission, 685 F.2d 974 (5th Cir. 
1982). When the lower court’s decision can be sustained 
on a state law ground, even when the state law ground was 
adopted to comply with a condition of a federal grant, the 
United States Supreme Court does not have jurisdiction 
to hear the appeal. Jankovich v. Indiana To!l Road Com- 
mission, 379 U.S. 487 (1965). 


- 
“ wh * “* 
ont -, rae ~ BS we os oe 


, 
> 


7 


A Conflict Among State Courts Is Not A Ground 
For Granting Certiorari. 


Humana argues that all other states have interpreted 
similar regulatory standards differently from the inter- 
pretation given by the Arkansas Supreme Court and that 
if the decision below is not reversed it will somehow re- 
write the federal legislation and/or the implementing leg- 
islation other states have adopted. The United States 
Supreme Court may neither re-write state statutes, nor re- 
interpret them for state courts. 27 U.S.C. §1257; Minne- 
sota v. National Tea Co., 309 U.S. 551 (1940). If there 
are inconsistencies, they arise from the individuality of 
the laws and regulations the various states haye adopted ;? 
and the interpretations given by state regulatory bodies 
and in judicial review opinions which Congress established 
at the state level. 42 U.S.C. 300n-1(b) (12) (E). The in- 
terpretations given to numerical bed need formulas are 
more varied than the formulas themselves, and one can- 
not develop a “national trend” as Humana suggests. Two 
of the decisions cited by Humana’ are state trial court de- 
cisions which should not be cited as the official position of 
a state on the issue. One of the decisions* dealt with com- 
pliance with a health systems plan. There is no require- 


eee seein De Bs Sesto pene 90. Oat on twelve out of 
49 states have adopted the standard upon which the Arkansas 
Supreme Court relied. 


$Northwest Health Care, Inc. v. Idaho Health Facilities Review 
Board, No. 76772 (idaho District Court, Ada County, January 


27, 1983); West Virginia Health Systems Inc. v. State 
Health po ee CIV-NO. AP-CA- 


80-1 (W. Va. Cir. Ct., Kanawha County, July 2, 1980). 


‘West Virginia Health Systems Agency, Inc. v. State Health 
iaonhg oka Sectlaorame habit ape 


8 « 


ment that a CON decision be consistent with a health sys- 
tems plan, as is the case with the State Health Plan.‘ 
Three of the decisions® were rendered under state statu- 
tory structures that did not require Certificate of Need 
decisions to be consistent with the State Health Plan. 
Moreover, several vpinions have sustained Certificate of 
Need decisions which were based upon numerical stand- 
ards such as the four beds per 1,000 population standard.’ 
With respect to the National Geremedical Hospital v. Blue 
Cross, 452 U.S. 378 (1981) decision, this court came closer 
in that opinion to supporting the decision below than con- 
tradicting it. In the portion of the footnote Humana 
failed to cite, this court stated that: “Where ‘competition 
appropriately allocates supply consistent with health sys- 
stems plans and state health plans, planning agencies 
should give priority .. . to actions which would strengthen 


SCompare 42 U.S.C. §300m-2(c) and AHPDA Rule 11(10) with 
42 U.S.C. §300m-6(a) (5) and AHPDA Rule 4(d). 


‘Fairfield Nursing Home v. Whalen, 407 N.Y.S.2d 304 (App. 

Div. 1978); Irvington General Hospital v. Department of Health, 

149 N.J. Super. 461, 374 A.2d 49, 51 We. Div. 1977); Stur- 

— ~ — 52 A.D.2d 882, 383 N.Y.S.2d 60, 64 (Sup. Ct. 
iv. 1976). 


’Tarpon Springs General Hospital v. Office of Community Med- 
ical Facilities, 366 So.2d 185 (Fla. App. 1979)—Florida court 
relied upon the state health plan’s numerical peojeston of bed 
need in denying a Certificate of Need; In Re: Certificate of 
Need Application by the Bethany Medical Center, 230 Kan. 201, 
630 P.2d 1136 (Kan. 1981); In Re: Review of Decision of 
Kansas Corporation Commission, 232 Kan. 787, 659 P.2d 199 
1983);—Kansas court affirmed decision based upon numerical 
formula for determining need; American International Health 
Services, Inc. v. Rhode Island t of Health, No. 77- 
3474 (R.I. Super. Ct., Prov. Cty., September 11, 1978), cert. den. 
396 A.2d 945 (R.I. 1979)—state decision based upon an 
excess of hospital beds in the state affirmed. 


the effect of competition.’ ” 452 U.S. at page 388 (emphasis 
added). In other words, this court, quoting from legis- 
lative history, recognized that consistency with a State 
Health Plan is the first criterion which must be adhered 
to, and if a proposal is first “consistent with .. . the state 
health plan” then priority should be given to projects 
which would strengthen competition. Similarly, the Ar- 
kansas Supreme Court, quoting from the AHPDA Rules, 
stated that ali Certificate of Need decisions first “must be 
consistent wih the State Health Plan.” AHPDA Rule 
4(d). 


B. THE DECISION BELOW DOES NOT DENY 
HUMANA DUE PROCESS BECAUSE IT 
ONLY REQUIRES THE AHPDA TO EXER- 
CISE ITS DISCRETION WITHIN THE 
BOUNDS OF ADOPTED STANDARDS. 
Although the due process issue raised in the second 
and third questions for review were discussed by Humana 
in its Petition for Rehearing filed below, the issue was 
neither considered nor passed upon by the Arkansas Su- 
preme Court in its decision. There is nothing in the 
record which is sufficient to create a federal question. For 
certiorari jurisdiction to attach, there must be an “attack 
upon the validity of the order, not merely upon the court’s 
judgment.” The opinion for which certiorari is re- 
quested must show that the court “considered or necessar- 
ily passed upon the question[s presented for review.] .. . 
[Petitions for Rehearing] form no part of the record and 


8The entire decision on rehearing, with the exception of a dis- 
sent, is ‘Petitions for Rehearing are denied.” Humana Ap- 


pendix 1b. 


10 


are not adequate to create a federal question when no 
such question was necessarily decided below.” Live Oak 
Water Users Association v. Railroad Commission, 269 
U.S. 354 (1926). The due process issues raised as Hu- 
mana’s second and third questions for review, which were 
not raised below except by Petition for Rehearing, and 
which were not discussed in the decision, are not proper 
federal questions for certiorari jurisdiction. 


The Roles of the CAHSA And The SHCC Do Not 
Conflict With The Role Of The AHPDA. 


The roles of the HSA and the SHCC as described in 
Federal legislation are to determine the health care needs 
within the state, and to identify those needs through the 
adoption of regional Health Systems Plans, and ultimately 
a comprehensive State Health Plan. The State Health 
Plan “describe[s] the . . . acute inpatient services .. . 
needed, the number and type of resources . . . required, 
... and the extent to which new health care facilities need 
to be constructed.” 42 U.S.C. §300m-3(c). The only “ac- 
tion” taken by the CAHSA and the SHCC with which Hu- 
mana can take exception is the adoption of those plans, 
because it is through the adoption of the State Health 
Plan that the four beds per 1,000 population standard be- 
came a criterion for Certificate of Need review in Ar- 
kansas. However, it cannot be argued that adoption of 
the State Health Plan is not properly the function of the 
SHCC. 42 U.S.C. §300m-3(c); Ark. Stat. Ann. $82-2309 
(a). What Humana seeks therefore is a determination 
that the AHPDA has the discretion to issue a Certificate 
of Need which is not consistent with the State Health 
Plan, which would have the effect of sanctioning a viola- 


ll 


tion of Ark. Stat. Ann. §83-2307 as weli as AHPDA Rule 
4(d). Perhaps the explanation provided by the SHCC in 
its Response to Humana’s Petition for Rehearing can best 
distinguish the respective roles of the SHCC and the 
AHPDA: 


SHCC has no intention of infringing upon the discre- 
tionary role of the AHPDA in its future review and 
assessment of individual Certificate of Need applica- 
tions, so long as the AHPDA’s decisions are consist- 
ent with the State Health Plan. That is in keeping 
with the laws and the court’s opinion, and we see 
nothing in the AHPDA’s petition [for rehearing] 
which objects to that division of responsibility. 


The Procedure For Adopting And Amending The 

State Health Plan Is Not Unconstitutional. 

Humana’s “Fourteenth Amendment” argument simply 
states that because the Central Arkansas Health Systems 
Agency (“CAHSA”) and the SHCC include potential com- 
petitors within their memberships, and because the State 
Health Plan which they create and adopt must be followed 
in Arkansas Certificate of Need decisions. Humana is de- 
nied due process. Humana is essentially arguing first that 
due process entitles it to a decision that would violate 
AHPDA Rule 4(d), and second that due process demands 
that the AHPDA be authorized to amend the State Health 
Plan in an individual Certificate of Need decision. It 
would only be a denial of due process if the AHPDA failed 
to follow its rules, or if the State Health Plan were im- 
properly amended. United States ex rel. K.C.S. Ry. Co. 
v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 252 U.S. 178, 187 (1920); 
Tracy v. Startwout, 35 U.S (10 Pet.) 80 (1833). With re- 
spect to Humana’s claim of bias by the Central Arkansas 
Health Systems Agency, in Simon v. Cameron, 337 F. 


12 


Supp. 1380 (C.D. Cal. 1970) a local health planning agen- 
cy’s authority to exercise the type of discretion Humana 
finds objectionable has been held constitutional: 


The voluntary planning agency with its close connec- 
tions should be characterized as a public agency. The 
law contains sufficient standards to guide the agency 
in its function of assessing community need for health 
facilities and granting or withholding its approval 
accordingly. The delegation and licensing authority 
is thus clearly constitutional. 


Application of the due process clause of the Four- 
teenth Amendment to invalidate the delegation of au- 
thority to local planning bodies would lead to the in- 
validation of numerous delegations of authority to pri- 
vate bodies which Congress and state legislatures have 
established and which are accepted generally. 


C. HUMANA CHOSE NOT TO PRESENT EVI- 
DENCE OF NEED UNDER THE FOUR 
BEDS PER 1,000 STANDARD DURING THE 
INITIAL HEARING, AND DUE PROCESS 
DOES NOT REQUIRE A REMAND.’ 

The standard endorsed by the Arkansas Supreme 
Court was neither unique nor unforeseen. The four beds 
per 1,000 standard has been part of every Arkansas State 
Health Plan ever adopted, including the one adopted in 
June of 1980 which was in effect during the review of the 
Humana application. The substantive effect of Arkansas’ 
State Health Plan (ie., that Certificate of Need deci- 
sions must be consistent with it) was part of both the 


review does not contain a properly presented federal ques- 


5 
scsspeuaseldit | 
ae the reasons stated above at pages 9-10, this third question 4 


13 


enabling legislation and the very rules which governed 
the administrative process. Ark. Stat. Ann. §82-2307 
(Supp. 1983); AHPDA Rule 4(d). As stated in the de- 
cision below, an agency is bound to follow its own rules, 
and it is neither “unique” nor “unforeseen” when a court 
requires the agency to do so. Contrary to Humana’s asser- 
tion, it was the approval of the Humana Certificate of 
Need which was a break with previous Arkansas practice. 
The record shows that the Humana Certificate of Need 
marked the first time during the seven year history of the 
agency, that a Certificate of Need had been approved that 
was not consistent with the State Health Plan. (R. 5232- 
33, 5235-37, 5240-42, 5249, 5253, 5262, 5266-67, 5271-74, 
5278). The Arkansas Supreme Court merely corrected an 
aberration. 


Humana had the same right to present evidence that 
its application complied with the four beds per 1,000 pop- 
ulation standard as did the other parties. Humana chose 
not to do so, which left only the evidence presented by 
one of Humana’s opponents and the CAHSA Health Sys- 
tems Plan in the record on that issue. All of the evidence 
shows that Humana’s proposal exceeded the four beds per 
1,000 standard. Due process does not require that an 
applicant be given a second bite of the apple. Holley v. 
Lawrence, 317 U.S. 518 (1943). Saunders v. Shaw, 244 
U.S. 317, 320 (1917) does not support Humana’s request 
for the second bite. In Saunders the defendant proffered 
testimony over the plaintiff’s sustained objection, and a 
judgment for the plaintiff was sustained on appeal. On 
rehearing the judgment was reversed, with judgment be- 
ing entered for the defendant on the basis of the defend- 


14 


ant’s proffered testimony. Justice Holmes, responding to 
the procedural issue of the timeliness of raising the con- 
stitutional issue, explained that certiorari jurisdiction at- 
tached because the petitioner was barred from raising the 
issue in state court by a procedural rule prohibiting a sec- 
ond rehearing petition. The petitioner in Saunders was 
entitled to a remand because he was not required to pre- 
sent the evidence below since he had been successful in 
keeping out his opponent’s testimony through objection. 
Tn this case Humana’s opponent presented substantial evi- 
dence on the four beds per 1,000 population standard, with- 
out objection. The Arkansas Supreme Court stated in 
its opinion that state law permits the standard “to be ex- 
ceeded locally to meet exceptional conditions, . . . [but 
there were] no finding[s] that any such exceptional con- 
dition exists.” Humana simply chose not to address the 
issue, and is not entitled to a remand to correct its own 
error. The same distinction of the Saunders decision is 
found in Hamling v. United States, 418 U.S. 87, 110 (1974) ; 
see also Butler Brothers v. McColgan, 315 U.S. 501, 510 
(1942). 


>. 
se ee 


CONCLUSION 


The decision below is simply a statement that an ad- 
ministrative agency is bound to follow its own regula- 
tions and the laws under which it was established. The 
principles upon which the Arkansas Supreme Court relied 
are clearly stated in the state statutes, state regulations 
and State Health Plans adopted as part of our health plan- 


7 
bY 
2 
a 
} 
ie a 
: 
- stasis 7 —. 


15 


ning and medical care cost containment efforts. One time 
in seven years the AHPDA deviated from those prin- 
ciples, and the Arkansas Supreme Court has reversed in 
a decision which does not rely upon any grounds which 
would confer certiorari jurisdiction. 


Respectfully submitted, 


J. C. Deacon 

Barrett, WHeatiey, Smitru & Deacon 
600 Citizens Bank Building 
Jonesboro, Arkausas 72403-4057 

(501) 932-6694 


Attorneys for Respondent, Statewide 
Health Coordinating Council 


| = -— _— © 7 | 


APR 27 1984 
No. 83-1493 eam STEVAS. 
In The 


Supreme Court of the United States 


October Term, 1983 


Ly 
Vv 


GENERAL HOSPITALS OF HUMANA, INC., 
Petitioner, 
vs. 


ARKANSAS STATEWIDE HEALTH 
COORDINATING COUNCIL, et al., 
Respondents. 


fy 
Vv 


PETITION FOR A WRIT OF CERTIORARI 
TO THE SUPREME COURT 
OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS 


ry 
Vv 


BRIEF IN OPPOSITION BY RESPONDENTS BAPTIST 
MEDICAL SYSTEM, ARKANSAS BLUE CROSS AND 
BLUE SHIELD, INC., AND ST. VINCENT INFIRMARY 


“sy 
XV 


Haroip H, Stupson II Cuartes R. Nestrup 

Git, Sxoxos, Srmpson, Hovse, Watiace & JEWELL, 
Bvurorp & Owey, P.A. FA. 

300 Superior Federal 1500 Tower Building 
Building Little Rock, Arkansas 72201 


Little Rock, Arkansas 72201 (501) 375-9151 
(501) 374-1107 Attorneys for 
Attorneys for Respondents, Respondent, St. 
Baptist Medical System Vincent Infirmary 


and Arkansas Blue Cross 
and Blue Shield, Inc. 


COCKLE LAW BRIEF PRINTING CO., (800) 835-7427 Ext. 333 


i 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Pages 
Statement of the Case 1 
Summary of Argument 3 


Reasons For Denying The Writ: 
I. This Court lacks jurisdiction over this matter 
because there is no federal question 4 


Il. The Petition for Certiorari should be denied be- 
cause the Arkansas Supreme Court’s decision is 
based upon adequate and independent state 


grounds. 9 
Conclusion ‘ saaeek ae 
Appendix A—Arkansas State Health Planning 

Law Al 
Appendix B—Arkansas State Health Plan A10 
Appendix C—Central Arkansas Health Service 

Area Bed Need Determinations ..... Al2 
Appendix D—Arkansas Health Planning and De- 

velopment Agency Rules Al4 
Appendix E—Excerpt from Humana’s Latest 

CON Application Al7 
Appendix F—Excerpt from Humana’s Petition 

for Rehearing A18 


TABLE OF AUTHORITIES 
CasEs : 


Buck v. People of State of California, 343 U.S. 
99 (1952) reh. denied 343 U.S. 932 (1952) 


Goodin v. State of Oklahoma, 436 F. Supp. 583 
(W.D. Okla. 1977) 5 


ii 


TABLE OF AUTHORITIES—Continued 


Pages 
Greater St. Louis Health Systems Agencies v. 
Teasdale, 506 F. Supp. 23 (B.D. Mo. 1980) 0... 5 
Herb v. Pitcairn, 324 U.S. 117 (1945) 9 
In Re: Certificate of Need Application by the 
Bethany Medical Center, 230 Kan. 201, 630 P. 
2d 1136 (1981) ..... 6 
Lynch v. People of New York, Ex Rel. Pierson, 
293 U.S. 52 (1934) 9 


Palmetto General Hospital, Inc. v. State Depart- 
ment of Health and Rehabilitative Services, 333 
So. 2d 531 (Fla. App. 1976) 7 


State v. Sisters of Charity of Leavenworth Health 
Services Corporation, 227 Kan. 53, 605 P. 2d 100 
(1980) 7 


State of North Carolina v. Califano, 445 F. Supp. 
532 (E.D. N.C. 1977) judgment aff’d 435 U.S. 
962 (1978) 5 


Statewide Health Coordinating Council, et al. v. 
General Hospitals of Humana, Inc., et al., 280 
Ark. 441, 660 S.W.2d 906 (1983), reh. denied 
281 Ark. 98 (1983) 3 


Tarpon Springs General Hospital v. Office of 
Community Medical Facilities, Department of 
Health and Rehabilitative Services, 366 S.W.2d 


185 (Fla. App. 1979) 7 
Village of Herkimer v. Axelrod, 451 N.Y.S. 2d 
303 (1982) th ae 


Wilmington United Neighborhoods v. United 
States Department of Health, Education, and 
Welfare, 615 F.2d 112 (3rd Cir. 1980), cert. den. 
449 U.S. 827 (1980) 8 


Women’s Community Health Center of Beaumont, 
Inc. v. Texas Health Facilities Commission, 685 
F.2d 974 (1982) 7 


No. 83-1493 


7 
w~ 


In The 


Supreme Court of the United States 


October Term, 1983 


-.* 
w~ 


GENERAL HOSPITALS OF HUMANA, INC., 
Petitioner, 
vs. 


ARKANSAS STATEWIDE HEALTH 
COORDINATING COUNCIL, et al., 
Respondents, 


LY 
Ww 


PETITION FOR A WRIT OF CERTIORARI 
TO THE SUPREME COURT 
OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS 


—— ll 
! 


BRIEF IN OPPOSITION BY RESPONDENTS BAPTIST 
MEDICAL SYSTEM, ARKANSAS BLUE CROSS AND 
BLUE SHIELD, INC., AND ST. VINCENT INFIRMARY 


‘7 
on 


STATEMENT OF THE CASE 


This statement is submitted pursuant to Rule 34(2) 
of the Rules of the Supreme Court. It is not intended 
to be a complete statement of this case, but is instead de- 
signed to correct several of the inaccuracies and omissions 
in the Petition for Certiorari filed by General Hospitals 
of Humana, Inc., the Petitioner herein (hereinafter “Hu- 
mana”). 


1 


2 


First, Humana has presented this Court with an in- 
complete picture of the legal framework for health plan- 
ning. Its Petition is totally devoid of any mention of 
Arkansas’ state laws and regulations. As will be dis- 
cussed more fully below, the National Health Planning 
Resources Development Act, 42 U.S.C. 300k, et seq. (here- 
inafter “the Federal Act”) as amended, makes federal 
funds available to states which enact a health planning 
program which meets certain minimum federal guidelines.' 
Arkansas has chosen to receive these federal funds and 
thus has enacted appropriate legislation. Humana’s Pe- 
tition for Certiorari completely ignores the entire Arkan- 
sas health planning program, Arkansas Stat. Ann. 4§82- 
2301-2316 (Repl. 1976 and Supp. 1983), the Arkansas State 
Health Plan, and the Arkansas Health Planning and De- 
velopment Agency’s Policies, Procedures and Criteria for 
Certificate of Need Review, Capital Expenditure Review, 
and New Institutional Health Services Review.’ 


Humana’s discussion of the factual background in- 
volved also requires correction. Humana contends that 
the Arkansas Supreme Court interpreted the Federal Act 
to find that there was no need for Humana’s proposed 
project. The Arkansas Supreme Court actually ruled 
that Humana was not entitled to a Certificate of Need be- 
cause the Arkansas Health Planning and Development 
Agency’s decision to grant a Certificate of Need to Hu- 
mana was not consistent with the Arkansas State Health 
Plan as required by the Arkansas Health Planning and 
_ Development Agency’s own rules: 


‘Humana admits that not all states have chosen to enact 
such legislation (Humana Petition for Certiorari, p. 10). 

Pertinent portions of each of the foregoing are reproduced 
in Respondents’ Appendices A-D. 


3 


Thus it is established without substantial dispute that 
Humana’s application . . . is contrary to the Central 
Arkansas Health System’s Plan and to the State 
Health Plan. On this critical point, the State Agency’s 
own Rule 4(d) requires that the State Health Plan be 
adhered to.... 


Statewide Health Coordinating Council, et al. v. General 
Hospitals of Humana, Inc., et al., 280 Ark. 441, 448, 660 


S.W.2d 906, 909-910 (1983), reh. denied 281 Ark. 98 (1983). 
(Humana Appendix 5a). 


ty 
Ww 


SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT 


As a preliminary matter, Respondents wish to inform 
this Court that this brief will not respond to the 
“issues” in Humana’s Petition for Certiorari. This should 
not be considered as an admission that any of Humana’s 
points are valid. Respondents simply feel that any dis- 
cussion of the merits of this case is inappropriate at this 
point because this is not a proper case for certiorari. There 
is no true federal question involved here. The only “fed- 
eral” question has been contrived by Humana by present- 
. ing this Court with a distorted view of Arkansas’ health 
planning program.’ Even if this were a federal ques- 


3it is interesting to note that even as this Petition is pend- 
ing, Humana has initiated further state proceedings. On Janu- 
ary 13, 1984, Humana made a request, pursuant to the rules of 
the Arkansas Statewide Health Coordinating Council, to amend 
the Arkansas State Health Plan and its bed need determinations 
so as to allow a future Humana Certificate of Need application 
to be “consistent with the State Health Plan” (as required by 
Arkansas Health Planning Development Agency Rule 4(d)). 


(Continued on following page) 


4 


tion, certiorari would not lie because the Arkansas Su- 
preme Court’s decision can be sustained on adequate and 
independent state grounds. 


L> 
. ae 


REASONS FOR DENYING THE WRIT 


I. This Court lacks jurisdiction over this matter because 
there is no federal question. 

This is a State law matter. A brief explanation of 
the operation of the Federal Act demonstrates that this 
cfise involves no federal question and, therefore, certiorari 
is inappropriate. The heart of the Federal Act is 42 U.S.C. 
§300m(d). That section provides that if a state does not 
enter into an agreement with the Secretary of Health, Ed- 
ucation, and Wejfare (now Health and Human Services) 
to implement a stete health planning program which meets 
the minimum staudards of the Federal Act, that state will 
become ineligible for certain health related allotments, 
loans, and grants. The Federal Act does not require 
states to enact health planning laws, and this has been 


(Continued from previous page) 


Also, on that date, Humana resubmitted its application for a 
Certificate of Need for the facility in question to the Arkansas 
Health eee oe Deve nt Agency, pursuant to Ark. Stat. 
Ann. §82-2311 and nsas Health Planning ape pis coe 
fm rules. This application, the pertinent page of which is 
uced in Anpond B to this brief, states that: 
“, . . Should a new Certificate of Need be issued before 
action is taken by the U.S. Supreme Court Humana shall 
treat the new Certificate as superceding the old one and 


refrain from further action to implement the Au- 
gust, 1982 82 CON” 


e 


5 


recognized by a number of Courts. For example, the Court 
in Greater St. Louis Health Systems Agency v. T'easdale, 
506 F’. Supp. 23, 27 (E.D. Mo. 1980) noted: 


It is critical to note for purposes of this action that 
the Act did not constitute a mandatory regulation; 
it merely established an optional program which a 
state must implement if that state wishes to take ad- 
vantage of the federal funds allocated by the Act. 
Id. at 27. 
See also, Goodin v. State of Oklahoma, 436 F. Supp. 583 
(W.D. Okla. 1977); State of North Carolina v. Califano, 
445 F. Supp. 532 (E.D. N.C. 1977), judgment aff’d, 435 
U.S. 962 (1978). 


In order to become eligible for federal monies, Ark- 
ansas adopted a health planning program with appropriate 
laws and regulations. See Ark. Stat. Ann. $§82-2301-2316 
(Repl. 1976 and Supp. 1983) ; Arkansas State Health Plan; 
and the Policies, Procedures and Criteria for Certificate of 
Need Review, Expense Review and New Institutional 
Health Services Review of the Arkansas Health Planning 
and Development Agency’. The language of the Arkansas 
health planning law and regulations is virtually identical 


to the language of the law and regulations of the Federal 


Act. . 


Since a state is free to either enact a state health 
planning program or not, the question of a state court 
interpreting the requirements of the Federal Act cannot 
arise in a certificate of need review once the state has 


‘This Court should take note that although Humana has 
cited none of these in its Petition for Certiorari, it cited the 
Arkansas law and regulations extensively in proceedings before 
the Arkansas Supreme Court and at all other levels below. 


enacted its own health planning program. This is because 
the Federal Act merely sets out minimum standards which 
a state health planning program must meet in order to be 
eligible for federal monies.’ The State then enacts health 
planning laws and regulations; these State laws and reg- 
ulations govern Certificate of Need questions. Humana’s 
argument that the Arkansas Supreme Court’s decision vi- 
olates the Federal Act is thus unsound. The only possible 
federal question is whether the Arkansas program com- 
plies with the federal guidelines sufficiently to make Ark- 
ansas eligible for federal funds. This obviously has noth- 
ing to do with Humana’s eligibility for a Certificate of 
Need and is not an issue in this case. 


Humana’s contention that this case involves a federal 
question is an apparent attempt to take advantage of the 
virtual identity in language between the Federal Act and 
the Arkansas health planning program.® However, the 
plain fact is that Certificate of Need litigation is not un- 
usual and Certificate of Need cases routinely rely upon 
state law. See,e.g.Inre: Certificate of Need Application 


SHumana mg tence tm this in its Petition for Rehearing 
to the Arkansas Supreme Court. There Humana stated: 


By its decision the [Arkansas Supreme] Court has removed 
discretion in Ce te of Need matters from the state 
agency. . . . By doing so, the Court has endangered all 
federal funding for health planning in the state of Arkan- 
sas. (Humana Petition for Rehearing, p. 7) 


‘Humana admits that many states have health planning 
programs which make these states eligible for federal funds but 
whose lan is not identical to that of the Federal Act (Hu- 
mana Petition for Certiorari, p. 10). Would Humana seriously 
argue that a state court passing on a Certificate of Need appli- 
cation in those states interprets the Federal Act? 


A Ths 


7 


by the Bethany Medical Center, 230 Kan. 201, 630 P. 2d 
1136 (1981); Tarpon Springs General Hospital v. Office 
of Community Medical Facilities, Department of Health 
and Rehabilitative Services, 366 So. 2d 185 (Fla. App. 
1979) ; State v. Sisters of Charity of Leavenworth Health 
Services Corporation, 227 Kan. 53, 605 P. 2d 100 (1980). 
Probably the best example of the state law nature of this 
type proceeding is found in Palmetto General Hospital, 
Inc. v. State Department of Health and Rehabilitative 
Services, 333 So. 2d 531 (Fla. App. 1976). In that case, the 
principal contention was that the particular project in 
issue was exempt from certificate of need requirements. 
The Florida court stated: 


While it is true that the petitioner fits the foregoing ex- 
emptions of the Florida statute and is exempt from the 
certificate of need requirements of that law, we can- 
not say that such law in any way controls the Secre- 
tary [of Health, Education and Welfare] on the ques- 
tion of whether or not he will approve federal par- 
ticipation in capital expenditures on petitioner’s proj- 
ect.... 


Id. at 533. See also Village of Herkimer v. Axelrod, 451 


N.Y.S. 2d 303, 307 (1982) where the New York Supreme 
Court stated: 


The [federal] act itself, however, negates any Con- 

gressional intent totally to preempt the field of health 

planning from the States (see U.S. Code, tit. 42, 

§300k[b], and as te unneeded health services, §300m- 

2[a][6]). 

Federal Courts also consistently hold that health 
planning is a state law matter. In Women’s Community 
Health Center of Beaumont, Inc. v. Texas Health Facil- 
ities Commission, 685 F. 2d 974, 980 (1982), the Fifth 
Circuit Court of Appeals observed: 


8 


The Federal Act establishes the national health plan- 
ning program as a joint federal-state effort. The 
state’s interest in ensuring economical health care 
for its citizens is no less important than the federal 
government’s interest. In recognition of the state’s 
interest, the Federal Act gives the state government 
a central role in the administration of the health-care 
planning program within the state. In particular, the 
Federal Act “recognize[s] State certificate-of-need 
programs to be the basic component in an overall ef- 
fort to control the unnecessary capital expenditures 
which contribute so greatly to the total national health 
bill.” Health Planning and Resources Development 
Amendments of 1979, S.Rep.No.96, 96th Cong., 1st 
Sess.5, reprinted in [1979] U.S. Code Cong. & Ad. 
News 1306, 1310. The state alone is charged with en- 
forcement of the certificate of need program. 


See also, Wilmington United Neighborhoods v. United 
States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, 
615 F. 2d 112 (3rd Cir. 1980), cert. den. 449 U.S. 827 (1980), 
where the Third Circuit Court of Appeals, in construing 
a question under 42 U.S.C. §1122’, stated: 


. we reject the appellant’s underlying premise that 
the program is 4 “federal” one. All evaluations of 
the merits of health programs are conducted at the 
state and local level. .. . The regulations are not pat- 
terned to bring about a rigid federal uniformity. On 
the whole, it is clear that the state’s role in health 
care planning was not to be supplanted. 


The Court then examined the legislative history. of the 
Federal Health Planning Act as further evidence that 
questions of health planning are state law matters. 


742 U.S.C. §1122 is a part of the Social Security Act and is 

desi to reduce federal Medicare contributions for un- 

capital itures. Under the §1122 program (as 

with the ital 1 Act), the federal rnment offers 

federal fu to states to establish health p a eae 
within minimum bounds set out in the federal legislation. 


An understanding of the true nature of the Federal 
Act thus demonstrates that this is entirely a state law 
matter and thus certiorari should be denied. 


II. The Petition for Certiorari should be denied because 
the Arkansas Supreme Court’s decision is based upon 
adequate and independent state grounds.° 


It is basic Hornbook law that this Court will not re- 
view judgments of state courts which rest on adequate 
and independent state grounds. As this Court stated in 
Herb v. Pitcairn, 324 U.S. 117, 125 (1945): 


This court from the time of its foundation has ad- 
hered to the principle that it will not review judg- 
ments of state courts that rest on adequate and in- 
dependent state grounds. [citations omitted] The 
reason is so obvious that it has rarely been thought 
to warrant statement. 


Furthermore, this Court has repeatedly held that if there 
is any question as to whether a state court decision rests 
upon state or federal law, certiorari will not be granted. 
Lynch v. People of New York, Ex Rel. Pierson, 293 US. 
52 (1934); Buck v. People of State of California, 343 U.S. 
99 (1952), reh. denied 343 U.S. 932 (1952). In order for 
certiorari to lie, it must affirmatively appear that the 
state court rendering the decision must have decided a 
federal question and that such decision was essential to 
the disposition of the case. Herb v. Pitcairn, supra. 


Sit is important to remember that there is only one issue 
here since the Arkansas Supreme Court clearly limited its de- 
cision to the question of whether the Arkansas Health Plannin 
Development Agency could approve a Certificate of Need 
which is inconsistent with the State Health Plan, 280 Ark. at 445, 
660 S.W.2d at 908. (Humana Appendix 2a). 


10 


The plain language of the Arkansas Supreme Court’s 
decision reveals that it is based upon the Arkansas health 
planning law and regulations. In the introductory portion 
of the opinion, the Arkansas Supreme Court states: 


The protestants [respondents here] present several 
arguments for reversal, but we need consider only 
one: The State Agency was not authorized to grant 
a certificate of need that was inconsistent with the 
State Health Plan. On the record that argument 
must be sustained, which disposes of the case. (Em- 
phasis added.) 


280 Ark. at 445, 660 S.W.2d at 908. (Humana Appendix 
la, 2a). The Arkansas Supreme Court, after reviewing 
the overall regulatory scheme and the evidence before it, 
concluded : 


Thus it is established without substantial dispute that 
Humana’s application for a 150-bed hospital in an 
area already overbedded is contrary to the Central 
Arkansas Health System’s Plan and to the State 
Health Plan. On this critical point the stale agency’s 
own Rule 4(d) requires that the State Health Plan 
be adhered to: 


‘Each decision of the State Agency (or the ap- 
propriate administrative or judicial review body) 
to issue a certificate of need must be consistent 
with the State Health Plan, except in emergency 
circumstances that pose an eminent threat to 
public health.’ 


Despite this rule adopted by the agency itself, both 
that agency and the independent agency made what 
is denominated as a ‘finding of fact,’ though it contains 
only what is really a conclusion of law: 


‘The application, while inconsistent with the need 
determinations of the health systems plan, is con- 
sistent with the goals, objectives and need deter- 
minations of the state health plan.’ 


ll 


There is no substantial evidence to support that find- 
ing. ... (Emphasis added.) 
280 Ark. at 448-449, 660 S.W.2d at 909-910, (Humana Ap- 
pendix 4a, 5a). Since the clear language of the decision 
demonstrates that it is based upon Rule 4(d) of the Arkan- 
sas Health Planning Regulations, a state ground, Hu- 
mana’s Petition for Certiorari should be denied. 


Humana has admitted that there are adequate and 
independent state grounds to support the Arkansas Su- 
preme Court’s decision. In the Jurisdictional Statement 
portion of its brief before the Arkansas Supreme Court, 
Humana stated, “This Court has jurisdiction pursuant to 
Rule 29(1)(c) of the Supreme Court.” Rule 29(1)(ce), 
Ark Stat. Ann. Vol. 3A (Repl. 1979), provides that the 
Arkansas Supreme Court has jurisdiction over: 


Cases, other than appeals from the Workman’s Com- 
pensation Commission or from the Board of Review 
created by the employment Security Law, in which 
the validity, interpretation, construction or constitu- 
tionality of an act of the General Assembly, an act 
of the General Assembly, an ordinance of a municipal- 
ity or county, or a rule or regulation of any court, ad- 
ministrative agency or regulatory body is in question; 
declaratory judgment actions pertaining to the valid- 
ity or applicability of a rule of an agency subject to 
the Administrative Procedure Act under Ark. Stat. 
Ann. $55-705. 


The real issue before the Arkansas Supreme Court, 
as Humana tacitly admitted, thus involved only the “inter- 


pretation [or] construction . . . of an act of the 
[Arkansas] General Assembly .. ., or a rule or regulation 
of . . . [an] administrative agency or regulatory body.” 


Clearer adequate and independent state grounds are hard 
to imagine. 


12 


CONCLUSION 


It is clear from the foregoing that this is a State law 
matter and, thus, Humana’s Petition For Certiorari should 
be denied. Because this disposes of the case, Respondents 
have chosen not to reply to the points raised by Humana 
in its Petition. The Arkansas Statewide Health Coordi- 
nating Council, however, has responded appropriately to 
each of these points in its response brief and these Re- 
spondents adopt those responses as their own. 


Respectfully submitted, 
Harotp H. Smpson IT Cuartes R. Nestrup 
Grit, Skoxos, Smmpson, House, Wauiace & JEWELL, 
Burorp & Owen, P.A. P.A. 
300 Superior Federal 1500 Tower Building 
Building Little Rock, Arkansas 72201 


Little Rock, Arkansas 72201 (501) 375-9151 
(501) 374-1107 Attorneys for 
Attorneys for Respondents, Respondent, St. 
Baptist Medical System Vincent Infirmary 
and Arkansas Blue Cross 

and Blue Shield, Inc. 


A» 
a ome ae 


Al 


APPENDIX A 


ARKANSAS STATUTES ANNOTATED (1947) 
CHAPTER 23 
State Health Planning 


82-2307. Creation of state health planning and devel- 
opment agency. — There is hereby created and established 
the State Health Planning and Development Agency, here- 
inafter sometimes referred to as “the Agency”. Such 
Agency shall be an independent agency under the super- 
vision and control of the Governor. The State Health Plan- 
ning and Development Agency shall be the sole and official 
agency of the State of Arkansas to administer and super- 
vise the administration of the State’s responsibilities pur- 
suant to Public Law 93-641 and Public Law 96-79 of the 
United States and laws amendatory thereto, which Public 
Law is known as the “National Health Planning and Re- 
sources Development Act of 1974”. The Agency is hereby 
authorized and empowered to exercise such duties and 
powers as shall be necessary for the implementation of 
Public Law 93-641 end Public Law 96-79 and laws amenda- 
tory thereto in the State of Arkansas. The Agency is 
hereby designated as the agency of this State to accept, 
receive, retain, and administer federal funds made avail- 
able under the provisions of Public Law 93-641 and Public 
Law 96-79 and laws amendatory thereto. [Acts 1975, No. 
558, § 1, p. 1553; 1981, No. 808, § 1, p. —.] 


82-2308. Appointment of director by governor. — 
There shall be a Director of the State Health Planning and 
Development Agency who shall be the executive head of 
the Agency. The Director shall be appointed by the Gov- 
ernor subject to confirmation by the Senate, and shall serve 


A2 


at the pleasure of the Governor. [Acts 1975, No. 558, § 2, 
p. —.] 

82-2309. Establishment of statewide health coordt- 
nating council — Members — Meetings — Compensation — 
Terms.— (a) There is hereby established a Statewide 
Health Coordinating Council, hereinafter sometimes re- 
ferred to as “the Council” to advise and assist the State 
Health Planning and Development Agency in carrying out 
the provisions of this Act. The Council is hereby author- 
ized and empowered to exercise such duties and powers as 
are prescribed for Statewide Health Coordinating Councils 
in Public Law 93-641 and Public Law 96-79 and laws 
amendatory thereto. 


(b) The Council shall be composed of not more than 
thirty-six (36) members who shall be appointed by the 
Governor in accordance with the provisions of Public Law 
93-641 and Public Law 96-79 and laws amendatory thereto. 


(ec) The Council shall, in addition to the appointed 
members, include as an ex officio member an individual 
whom the Chief Medical Director of the Veterans’ Admin- 
istration shall have designated as a representative of the 
Veterans’ Administration. 


(d) The Governor may select by and with the advice 
and consent of the State Senate, the chairman of the Coun- 
cil. The Governor may select one or more vice chairmen. 
If the Governor does not choose to select officers, the 
Council shall select the chairman and one or more vice 
chairmen from among its members at the time of its an- 
nual meeting. 


(e) The Council shall conduct all of its business 
meetings in public and shall meet at least once in each cal- 
endar quarter of a year. 


A3 


(f) Members of the Council shall serve without pay, 
but shall receive actual expenses incurred for attendance 
at meetings of the Council. 


(g) The Governor shall have the power to stagger 
the terms of the members so that one-third [1/3] thereof 
may be appointed for an original term of one (1) year, 
one-third [1/3] for an original term of two (2) years, and 
one-third [1/3] for an original term of three (3) years, 
with all subsequent appointments to be for terms of three 
(3) years. [Acts 1975, No. 558, § 3, p. 1553; 1981, No. 808, 
§ 2, p. —.] 

* . . . s 

82-2310. Preparation and development of plan by 

agency. [Repealed.) 


82-2311. Certificates of need. — (a) The State Health 
Planning and Development Agency, with the advice, con- 
sent and approval of the Statewide Health Coordinating 
Council is hereby authorized and directed to implement 
the below described Certificate of Need Program in this 
State. 


(b) Prior to the construction, expansion or alteration 
of any hospital or health care facility, excluding physicians’ 
offices unless subject equipment is used for in-patient serv- 
ices, increasing bed capacity, or adding major new facil- 
ities or categories of service, or changing license classi- 
fications, a certificate-of-need shall be obtained from the 
State Health Planning and Development Agency. The 
decreasing of bed capacity or termination of a health serv- 
ice requires a certificate-of-need if associated with a cap- 
ital expenditure or if the operating budget of a service 


7 
SA oe 


A4 


being terminated exceeds seventy-five thousand dollars 
($75,000.00) annually or exceeds any future threshold es- 
tablished by HHS. The application for a certificate-of- 
need shall be submitted to the Agency on forms provided 
for this purpose. The application for a certificate-of-need 
shall include such information as necessary to determine: 


(1) Whether the proposed project is needed or pro- 
jected as necessary to meet the needs in the community 
in terms of health services required; 


(2) Whether the proposed project can be adequately 
staffed and operated when completed ; 


(3) Whether any proposed project is economically 
feasible ; 


(4) Whether the project will foster cost containment 
through improved efficiency and productivity; 


(c) The Agency with the advice of the Council may 
adopt criteria defining “major new facilities or categories 
of services” for purposes of this Section and exempting 
certain categories of medical facilities or services from the 
application of this Section in view of the specialized or 
limited nature of the services rendered, or proposed to be 
rendered, or on the basis of other criteria which it may 
adopt by rule. 


(d) The Agency shall issue a certificate-of-need as 
it finds that the proposed project requiring approval is 
reasonably necessary to provide health care to the defined 
pepulation in a manner which is economically practicable, 
which maintains high quality standards, and which is ap- 
propriate to the timely and economic development of ade- 
quate and effective health services in the area. In making 


A5 


such determination, the Agency shall take into considera- 
tion: 

(1) Recommendations of the appropriate Health 
Systems Agency(s). 


(2) The relationship of the proposal to the Health 
Systems Plans and the State Health Plan. 


(3) The need for health care services in the area or 
the requirements of the defined population. 


(4) The availability and adequacy of health care 
services in facilities which are currently serving the de- 
fined population and which conform to State standards. 


(5) The need for special equipment and services in 
the areas which are not reasonably and economically ac- 
cessible to the defined population. 


(6) The need for research and educational facilities. 


(7) The probable economics and improvement in 
service that may be derived from the operation of joint 
central services or from joint, ccoperative, or shared health 
resources which are accessible to the defined population. 


(8) The availability of sufficient manpower in the 
professional disciplines required to maintain the facility. 


(9) The plans for and development of comprehensive 
health services and facilities for the defined population 
to be served. Such services may be either direct or in- 
direct through formal affiliation with other health pro- 
grams in the area and shall include preventive, diagnostic, 
treatment, and rehabilitation services. 


(10) Whether or not the applicant has obtained all 
relevant approvals, licenses or consents required by law 
for its incorporation or establishment. 


A6 


(11) The needs of members, subscribers and en- 
rollees of institutions and health care plans which operate 
or support particular hospitals for the purpose of render- 
ing health care to such members, subscribers and enrollees. 


(12) In the case of an application by a hospital estab- 
lished or operated by a religious body or denomination, 
the needs of the members of such religious body or denom- 
ination for care and treatment in accordance with their 
religious or ethical convictions may be considered to be 
public need. 


(13) The proposed facility will be adequately funded. 


(e) Projects requiring approval shall not be insti- 
tuted or commenced after the effective date [March 25, 
1975] of this Act except upon application for and receipt 
of a certificate-of-need as provided herein: provided, that 
in any case in which prior to the effective date of this Act, 
there has been proposed the expansion of an existing fa- 
cility and preliminary plans have been submitted to the 
Agency, the Agency may waive all or any portion of the 
review process, and said facility may proceed with its 
plans in an orderly and expeditious manner. Any projects 
requiring approval which have, prior to the effective date 
of this Act, been approved by the Agency for Capital Ex- 
penditure Review purposes, are automatically approved 
for certificate-of-need. 

(f) In the administration of this Act, consideration 
shall be given to the efficiency of the utilization of an ex- 
isting health facility which is or will be serving the de- 
fined population to be served by a proposed new health 
facility or expansion of an existing health facility so as 
to avoid unnecessary duplication of facilities and to en- 
courage maximum efficiency in the use of the facilities 
which then serve or will be serving the defined population. 


Py? 


A7 


(g) “Defined population” as used in this Section 
means the population that is or may reasonably be expect- 
ed to be served by an existing or proposed facility. “De- 
fined population” shall also include persons who prefer 
to receive the services of a particular recognized school or 
theory of medical care. “Defined population” shall not 
be limited to a geographical area. 


(h) If the Designated Planning Agency finds that 
a project application complies with the requirements of 
Sections 4 and 5 of this Act and is otherwise in conformity 
with the State Plan, it shall approve such application and 
shall recommend and forward it to the appropriate State 
licensing agency. The Agency by regulation shall pro- 
vide an opportunity for fair hearing and appeal to every 
applicant or Health Systems Agency which is dissatisfied 
with any action regarding an application. 


(i) No license shall be issued or renewed for any 
hospital, or health care facility, excluding physicians’ offic- 
es unless subject equipment is used for in-patient services, 
which has been constructed, expanded, or altered in a man- 
ner subject to this Act unless a certificate-of-need has first 
been issued therefor pursuant to this section. This re- 
quirement will not be construed to prohibit the issuance 
of a license for existing facilities or services that satisfy 
existing licensing requirements and for which a license 
has been previously issued, provided that construction of 
additional patient beds te reach licensed capacity shall re- 
quire a certificate of need. The Agency is empowered to 
enjoin the construction or change in service as indicated 
in Section 4(b) of any project commenced in violation of 
this Act through an action filed in the Chancery Court of 


pe!” ie eee 


Ae Sant ov 


A8 


Pulaski County, Arkansas or the Judicial District in which 
the project is located. [Acts 1975, No. 558, § 5, p. 1553; 
1981, No. 808, § 3, p. —.] 


82-2312. Powers of agency.—In carrying out its 
duties hereunder the Agency is empowered to: 


(a) Make application for and accept funds from the 
Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Serv- 
ices for conducting its operations; 


(b) With the approval of the Governor, and the head 
of the affected department, division, or agency, delegate 
or contract out to any department, or agency of the State, 
responsibility for administering any programs or duties 
provided for in this Act. 


In this regard, unless otherwise directed by the Gov- 
ernor, the Office of Regulation and Licensure of the De- 
partment of Health and the Office of Long Term Care of 
the Department of Human Services shall administer the 
grants and loans program under Title 16 of the Public 
Health Services Act and under Public Law 93-621 and 
Public Law 96-79. 


(c) Hold hearings and to prescribe and promulgate 
such reasonable rules and regulations as may be necessary 
to implement this Act. In the promulgation, implementa- 
tion and application of rules and regulations, the State 
Health Planning and Development Agency shall comply 
with Act 434 of 1967 [4$§ 5-701-5-714], “The Arkansas Ad- 
ministrative Procedure Act”, as it is or may hereafter be 
amended. 


AQ 


(d) The State Health Planning and Development 
Agency is the designated State Agency to receive and an- 
alyze health statistics for health planning in the State of 
Arkansas. [Acts 1975, No. 558, $6, p. 1553; 1981, No. 808, 
§4, p. —.] 


82-2313. Transfer of powers. — All the powers, du- 
ties and functions of the Comprehensive State Health 
Planning Agency set forth in Act 305 of 1969 [§<§ 82-2301- 
82-2306] are hereby transferred by Type 1 transfer to the 
State Health Planning and Development Agency. The 
powers, duties and functions of the State Health Planning 
Council set forth in Act 305 of 1969 are hereby transferred 
by Type 1 transfer to the Statewide Health Coordinating 
Council, and the State Health Planning Council shall be- 
come the initial Statewide Health Coordinating Council. 
[Acts 1975, No. 558, § 7, p. 1553; 1981, No. 808, § 5, p. —.] 


82-2313.1 Expiration of act. — The provisions of Act 
558 of 1975, as amended, the same being Arkansas Statute 
82-2301 and following, shall automatically expire on the 
expiration or termination of the National Health Planning 
and Resources Development Act of 1974 [42 U.S.C. $§ 300k 
— 300s], as amended, or in the event the programs insti- 
tuted pursuant to such Act cease to function. [Acts 1981, 
No. 808, § 7, p. —.] 


Al0 


APPENDIX B 
[ARKANSAS] STATE HEALTH PLAN 
June, 1980 
pp. 184-185 


§ 121.201 - General Hospitals - Bed Supply 


(a) Standard. There should be less than four non- 
Federal, short stay hospital beds for each 1,000 per- 
sons in a health service area except under extraordi- 
nary circumstances. For purposes of this section, 
short-stay hospital beds include all non-Federal short- 
stay hospital beds (including general medical /surgical, 
children’s, obstetric, psychiatric, and other short-stay 
specialized beds). Conditions which may justify ad- 
justments to this ratio for a health service area in- 
clude: 


(1) Age: Individuals 65 years of age and older 
have a higher hospital utilization rate - up to four 
times that of the general population - than any 
other age group. Bed-population ratios for health 
service areas in which the percentage of elderly 
people is significantly higher (more than 12% of 
the population) than the national average may be 
planned at a higher ratio, based on analyses by 
the HSA. 


(2) Seasonal population fluctuations: Large 
seasonal variations in hospital utilization may 
justify higher ratios. Plans should reflect vaca- 
tion and recreation patterns as well as the needs 
of migrant workers and other factors causing 
unusual seasonal variations. 


(3) Rural areas: Hospital care should be ac- 
cessible within a reasonable period of time. For 
example, in rural areas in which a majority of 
the residents would otherwise be more than 30 


All 


minutes travel time from a hospital, the HSA 
may determine, based on analyses, that a bed- 
population ratio of greater than 4.0 per 1,000 per- 
sons maye be justified. 


(4) Urban areas: Large numbers of beds in 
one part of a Standard Metropolitan Statistical 
Area (SMSA) may be compensated for by fewer 
beds in other parts of the SMSA. Health service 
areas which include a part of an SMSA may plan 
for bed-population ratios higher than 4.0 per 1,000 
persons reflecting existing patterns if there is a 
joint plan among all HSAs serving the SMSA 
which provides for less than 4.0 beds per 1,000 
persons in the SMSA as a whole. 


(5) Areas with referral hospitals: In the case 
of referral institutions which provide a substan- 
tial portion of specialty services to individuals 
not residing in the area, the HSA may exclude 
from its computation of bed-population ratio the 
beds utilized by referred patients who reside out- 
side both the SMSA and the HSA in which the 
facility is located. 


§ 121.303 - General Hospitals - Occupancy Rate 


(a) Standard. There should be an average annual 
occupancy rate for medically necessary hospital care 
of at least 80% for all non-Federal short-stay hospital 
beds considered together in a health service area ex- 
cept under extraordinary circumstances. Conditions 
which may justify an adjustment to this standard for 
a health service area include: 


(1) Seasonal population fluctuations: In some 
areas, the influx of people for vacation or other 
purposes may require a greater supply of hospital 
beds th== would otherwise be needed. Large sea- 
sonal variations in hospital utilization which can 
be predicted through hospital and health insur- 
ance records may justify an average. annual oc- 
cupancy rate lower than 80% based on analyses 
by the HSA. 


Al2 


(2) Rural areas: Lower average annual occu- 
pancy rates are usually required by small hos- 
pitals to maintain empty beds to accommodate 
normal fluctuations of admissions. In rural areas 
with significant numbers of small (fewer than 
4,000 admissions per year) hospitals, an average 
occupancy rate of less than 80% may be justified, 
based on analyses by the HSA. 


APPENDIX C 


Health Service Area III [Central Arkansas] 
1986 [SHCC] Acute Care Bed Need Determinations 
{included by reference as a part of the 
Arkansas State Health Plan] 


The following information is based on the acute care bed 
need guidance and methodology (1981) and the 1986 popu- 
lation projections. Where a need is less than the current 
licensed and approved beds exists for a service area, a 
recommendation to delicense beds is not necessarily in- 
tended. 


1. Faulkner Service Area: 
116 licensed beds/0 approved 
1986 Bed Need is 136 


2. Monroe Service Area: 
40 licensed beds/0 approved 
1986 Bed Need is 16 


3. Rebsamen Service Area: 
75 licensed beds/38 approved 
1986 Bed Need is 106 


4. Riverview Service Area: 
125 licensed beds/0 approved 
1986 Bed Need is 57 


Al3 


. Children’s Service Area: 


117 licensed beds/43 approved 
1986 Bed Need is 160 


Note: This need is not based on the methodology. 
As a result of the special services provided to the 
State’s population and the admission restriction 
to children under 21 years of age, it is determined 
that the 1986 bed need for this facility be estab- 
lished at 160. Further analysis will be conducted 
for this service area hospital. 


. Memorial Service Area: 


260 licensed beds/0 approved 
1986 Bed Need is 214 


. Central Baptist Service Area: 


80 licensed beds/0 approved 
1986 Bed Need is 80 


Note: This need is not based on the methodology. 
As a result of the special services provided at 
this facility which requires length of stay longer 
than the average for the State as a whole, it is 
recommended that the 1986 bed need be estab- 
lished at the current acute care licensure. Fur- 
ther analysis will be conducted for this service 
area hospital. 


. Little Rock Service Area: 


1,543 licensed beds/130 approved 
1986 Bed Need is 1,818 


Note: This service area includes three hospitals 
(St. Vincent’s Infirmary, Doctor’s Hospital, and 
Baptist Medical Center). These three hospitals 
were grouped as a result of their comparative 
level of sophistication of services, their common 
statewide service area population base, and geo- 
graphic proximity. 


. University Service Area: 


400 licensed beds/0 approved 
1986 Bed Need is 400 


Al4 


Note: The need is not based on the methodology. 
University hospital was not grouped in the Little 
Rock service area because the service area is 
statewide (no more than 10% of the hospital’s 
service area population comes from any one coun- 
ty), the patients served by hospital are often un- 
able to pay for services, and it is a state-operated 
teaching facility. Based on these considerations, 
it is determined that the 1986 bed need for this 
facility be established at 400. 


10. Saline Service Area: 
147 licensed beds/0 approved 
1986 Bed Need is 123 


11. Lonoke Service Area: 
0 licensed beds/15 approved 
1986 Bed Need is 15 


Note: The need was not based on the methodol- 
ogy and patient origin data is not available to 
determine the service area population base. 


Adopted November 1981 


APPENDIX D 


POLICIES, PROCEDURES, AND CRITERIA 
FOR 
CERTIFICATE OF NEED REVIEW 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE REVIEW 
AND 
NEW INSTITUTIONAL HEALTH 
SERVICES REVIEW 


Arkansas Health Planning and Development Agency 
4815 West Markham 
Little Rock, Arkansas 
March, 1981 


Al5 


Rule 1. DESCRIPTION 


The State Health Planning and Development Agency 
(SHPDA or State Agency) is the State Agency des- 
ignated by Arkansas Act 558 of 1975 as amended by 
the Secretary of HHS to conduct the health planning 
activities of the State and implement those parts of 
the State Health Plan and the plans of the health 
systems agencies within the State which relate to the 
government of the State. The State Agency serves 
as the Designated Planning Agency of the State for 
the purposes of Section 1122 of the Social Security 
Act, and administers the State Certificate of Need 
Program mandated by P.L. 93-641 and P.L. 96-79. 


The State and Federal laws referred to above require 
the SHPDA to administer a State Certificate of Need 
Program which applies to the obligation of capital ex- 
penditures within the State, the offering within the 
State of new institutional health services, and the ac- 
quisition of major medical equipment. The SHPDA 
will review and make findings on proposed projects 
subject to Certificate of Need Review, prior to the 
time: i) capital expenditures are obligated, ii) the 
addition or deletion of institutional health services 
is offered, and iii) the acquisition of major medical 
equipment is undertaken. Only those institutional 
health services, capital expenditures, and major med- 
ical equipment found to be needed will be approved. 


The purpose of these reviews is to implement those 
health plans which prevent wasteful duplication of 
facilities and services as a means to help contain the 
cost of health care. The reviews will seek to assure 
needed services and facilities are developed where 
appropriate. The reviews will encourage develop- 
ment of alternative organizations for delivery of care. 


In the performance of its functions, the State Agency 
acts with the advice, consent, and approval of the 
Statewide Health Coordinating Council (SHCC) ap- 
pointed by the Governor. 


Rule 2. 


Al6 
DEFINITIONS 


[omitted] 


Rule 3. 
a. 


Rule 4. 


PURPOSE AND APPPLICABILITY 


The Arkansas State Health Planning and Devel- 
opment Agency (State Agency) will administer 
a State Certificate of Need Program which: (1) 
applies to the obligation of capital expenditures 
within the State, the offering within the State 
of new institutional health services, and the ac- 
quisition of major medical services, and the ac- 
quisition of major medical equipment and 2) is 
consistent with regulations of the Secretary. 


In performing its review functions, the State 
Agency shall (except to the extent approved by 
the Secretary) follow procedures and apply cri- 
teria developed and published by the State Agen- 
cy in accordance with regulations of the Secre- 
tary. 


GENERAL 


The State Agency will administer within the 
State a Certificate of Need Program. 


Only the State Agency (or the appropriate ad- 
ministrative or judicial review body) will issue, 
deny or withdraw certificates of need, grant ex- 
emptions from certificate of need reviews, or de- 
termine that certificate of need reviews are not 
required. 


In issuing or denying certificates of need or in 
withdrawing certificates of need, the State Agen- 
cy will take into account recommendations made 
by the State’s health systems agencies. 


Each decision of the State Agency (or the 
priate administrative or judicial review ) to 
issue a certificate of need must be consistent with 


Al7 


the State Health Plan, except in emergency cir- 
cumstances that pose an imminent threat to public 
health. 


e. Each decision of the State Agency to issue, deny, 
or withdraw a certificate of need must be based 
on: (1) a review by the State Agency conducted 
in accordance with its adopted procedures and 
criteria and (2) the record of the administrative 
proceedings held on the application for the certi- 
ficate or the State Agency’s proposal to withdraw 
the certificate. Each decision of the State Agency 
to grant or deny an exemption will be made in 
accordance with the State Agency’s procedures 
for reviewing applications for exemptions and 
will be based solely on the record of the admin- 
istrative proceedings held on the application. 


Rule 5- Rule 16. [omitted] 


APPENDIX E 


EXCERPT FROM HUMANA’S LATEST CON 
APPLICATION 
On August 5, 1982 the Arkansas Health Planning and De- 
velopment Agency issued a Certificate of Need (CON) to 
General Hospitals of Humana Inc. to build a 150 bed hos- 
pital in Sherwood, Arkansas for approximately $23,380,000. 
On October 24. 1983 the Arkansas Supreme Court reversed 
the decision to issue the CON. [lumana is seeking to have 
the United States Supreme Court review this decision by 
petition for writ of certiorari. Should a new Certificate 
of Need be issued before action is taken by the U.S. Su- 
preme Court Humana shall treat the new Certificate as 


A18 


superceding the old one and refrain from any further ac- 
tion to implement the August, 1982 CON. 


On October 26, 1983 Humana halted all construction on the 
Sherwood hospital because of the Arkansas Supreme 
Court Action. Humana has already paid approximately 
$8,000,000 for the site and the partially completed build- 
ing in Sherwood. The net effect is to request approval 
of approximately $16,000,000 in new costs on this CON to 
complete the facility. 


Page 1 of 40 from Humana’s January 13, 1984 application. 


APPENDIX F 
SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS 


No. 83-83 


Statewide Health Coordinating Council, et al., 
Respondents, 


vB. 
General Hospitals of Humana, Inc., et al., 
Petitioners. 


EXCERPT FROM HUMANA 
PETITION FOR REHEARING 


Al1g 


j. The Court erred 1) in divesting the State Agency 
of its decision-making role in Certificate of Need matters 
contrary to state and federal law and 2) in applying a 
national standard which was originally adopted for the 
purpose of assisting health planners in developing state 
and local health plans as an absolute mandate and certifi- 
cate of need decisions See, 42 C.F.R. §121.2. By its deci- 
sion the Court has removed discretion in Certificate of 
Need matters from the State Agency contrary to the fed- 
eral directive that the state should designate a single 
state agency to process Certificate of Need matters. See, 
42 U.S.C. §300m. By doing so, the Court has endangered 
all federal funding for health planning in the State of 
Arkansas. 


