# RETRIEVED FROM: https://archive.org/details/byte-magazine-1976-01   (OCR body: metadata -> items-server *_djvu.txt)
# ACCESS DATE: 2026-09-24  |  Level-3 chronology/feasibility probe, company_004_apple
# DOCUMENT: raw Internet Archive OCR text, uncorrected. Nothing below this header was edited.
# Issue-month corroboration: see _RETRIEVAL_LOG.md and the masthead line inside this file.
# 
JANUARY 1976 $1.50 




Build a Light Pen 

What's Inside an LSI -I I? 

Using Memory Address Space 
Golf Handicapping By Computer 




V*~- , 



■.: 11 :}j! 
':■ :'■ *•.%• 

1) ;£// 


;> :■ i 
Ij lj 


Vti-it 

r /■' 
■'•' »'A 
/-/IS 




/Ail 


//// 






i'i is /• 


'7/ * 


-a!}-/: 


; . _ - 



"■'^'fc'Si>;-' ; :»".-■". 






L:ftt 






:SVi».»..T-, S :. r .' ;■■ : ■:!/ :'.' ■ ' ■ ■ 

3&#&£;^ffiU;:;#? .-*o:V-:-'-v--5: ;lP.^' : -'V' : ;---' ■'-*,,., 

-'■v^t-^v^^--'Pi:'-t; : '■::•.-■■>■:;■■'■■.■■■ :'; :>■■■: -■' /T: <afc*S 

•■■:; *.;^r^««^*' ; :«>"•"-■,■.•.•■■■ '/.';.'----v% .ysgg 

iiM^iMiiTr'"-' i " • -■ ^#«K& 

BS&HSgB ;.■:'•.'-:• -■;& ft ■>{■:"■■■■:■ 



•■:;;v^;^ 



■ r."*riaS*i!-"i 







Introducing 

. . .the world's 
lowest cost 
computer system 





All kits are delivered with a complete instruction manual and packaged tor easy visual identifica- 
tion of parts to aid you in assembly. 



JOLT® is the new, fully-tested microcomputer with the exclusive on-board DEMON® debug 
monitor. You can build it, plug it in and talk to it in three hours or less ... for a price of just $249! 

The basic JOLT® card includes an 8-bit 
MOS Technology Model 6502 CPU, which 
requires no clock, can directly address 
65k of memory, has two index registers, 
58 instructions with 11 addressing 
modes, two interrupts and includes both 
single step and address halt capability. 
And that's only a part of it. 
JOLT's 1 - CPU card is available 
IMMEDIATELY* in either kit form or as- 
sembled ($249 for the kit in single quantity 
and $348 assembled). Either way, the 
JOLT® CPU is completely tested prior to 
delivery. It comes complete with a termi- 
nal interface (TTY or EIA) and a unique 
software DEbugger/MONitor called 
DEMON®, for which full documentation is 
provided. It is very easy to program, and 
any JOLT- delivery includes an easy-to- 
follow assembly instruction manual, show- 
ing you exactly how to put everything 
together . . . correctly. Complete assem- 
bly should take you no more than three 
hours if you choose the CPU in kit form. 
Besides the JOLT® CPU — the 6502 from 
MOS Technology —the basic JOLT™ 
card has a fully static memory accom- 
modating 512 bytes of the user RAM. The 
JOLT® CPU memory also has 64 bytes of 
interrupt vector RAM. ROM Program 
memory on the basic card consists of 1k 
bytes of monitor/debugger with an au- 
tomatic Power-On bootstrap program 
— so you can start talking to JOLT® and it 
to you as soon as you plug it in to your 
terminal. On-board Input/Output devices 
on the JOLT® CPU card include TTY 20 
milliamp current loop and an EIA inter- 
face, both full duplex. The card has high 
speed reader interface lines and 16 fully 
programmable user I/O lines with full TTL 
drive. 

Nobody, but nobody, except MAI can 
offer you an on-board debugger/monitor 
like DEMON®. It's fully documented, 
too. 

The exclusive DEMON® Debug Monitor 
really makes JOLT® one of the most out- 
standing computer systems offered at any 
time, at any price. Even without DEMON'® 
and its superior software features, JOLT® 
is the lowest cost computer system in exis- 
tence. And DEMON® is a bonus you'll 
have to use to believe. First, it self-adapts 



to any terminal speed from 10-30 CPS. 
With it. you can display and alter your CPU 
register and memory locations, plus you 
can read, write and punch Hex formatted 
data . . . with Write/Punch BNPF format 
data for PROM programmers. It has unli- 
mited breakpoint capability along with 
separate non-maskable interrupt entry 
and identification. External device inter- 
rupts can be directed lo any location you 
choose, or they can be defaulted to 
DEMON® recognition. DEMON® also 
gives you (1) a completely protected ROM 
resident debug/monitor; (2) the capability 
to begin execution at any location in mem- 
ory; (3) the capability to bypass DEMON- 
entirely to permit full control by you over 
your system; (4) a high-speed 8-bit parallel 
input option; and (5) it includes user calla- 
ble DEMON™' I/O subroutines. MOST IM- 
PORTANT, DEMON™ IS INCLUDED AS 
STANDARD WITH ANY JOLT®' CPU KIT 
OR ASSEMBLED BOARD! 

Obviously, the JOLT® basic card is a 
computer in and of itself. But you can add 
significantly to its capacity and versatil- 
ity by adding 4k RAM JOLT® memories 
— in one card or a whole bunch. A RAM 
card kit is only $265 ($320 assembled). 

NOW. 4096 Bit RAM 4K BYTE 

The JOLT® memory card is a fully static 
4,096-bit Random Access Memory (RAM) 
with 1 microsecond access time and on- 
board decoding. It is also available now.* 



And the quantity of one price is what you 
might expect to pay in quantities of 
100 .. . very inexpensive! 

There's also a JOLT® I/O card for you, 
our Peripheral Interface Adapter. You 
can't beat the price — single kit 96 
bucks — or the function. 




Pictured above is the assembled JOLT"" CPU 
card with DEMON'", just plug it in and you're 
ready to go. 

The JOLT® PIA (Peripheral Interface 
Adapter) I/O card includes two PIA LS 
chips, 32 input/output lines, two interrupt 
lines, on-board decoding and standard 
TTL drive. It is also fully programmable 
and available IMMEDIATELY* in either kit 
or assembled form ... at a very attractive 
single unit price ($140 assembled). 

Considering the function and capacity of 
the JOLT® Power Supply Card, you 
probably think the quantity of one price 
— $145 — is a misprint. It isn't. 

The JOLT® family also includes a power 
supply card, which operates at any of 



three voltages — +5, +12 and -10. The 
power supply supports the basic JOLT® 
CPU card, plus 4,096 bytes of RAM and 
I/O. The only two words for the price are 
"dirt cheap." It is available for delivery 
immediately with a single unit kit price of 
$145 ($190 assembled). 




The assembled power supply card shown 
above powers the JOLT® CPU, I/O, and RAM 
Memory cards. 

You can also choose a blank JOLT® uni- 
versal card. Or several. 



The JOLT® Universal card is completely 
nude. It's a blank you can use any way 
you wish, for control panels, T.V. inter- 
faces, keyboards, LED's, or any other in- 
terface logic, because the card's holes 
are drilled to accept 14, 16, 24, or 40 pin 
sockets and has the same form factor as 
the other JOLT® cards. The single unit 
price is just $25. 

If you think you need extra cables, wires 
and the like, choose a Super Value 
JOLT® Accessory Bag. A $55 Value for 
just $40. 

The JOLT® Accessory Bag includes 25 
separate parts, enough hardware to con- 
nect one JOLT® card to another. Order an 
Accessory Bag for each additional JOLT® 
card. The Bag contains such necessary 
items as flat cable, connectors, cord 
spacers, hardware, wire, etc. 



THE JOLT PLAIN ENGLISH WARRANTY 

All components in the JOLT® family are 
new and fully tested prior to shipment, kit 
components are fully warranted during the 
first 60 days of ownership. Assembled 
parts are fully warranted during the first 6 
months of ownership. If your properly as- 
sembled kit does not work, just ship your 
order back to Microcomputer Associates 
Inc. and we'll repair, replace, or refund 
your money. 



20% BONUS 

NOW! Special ONE TIME BONUS DISCOUNT. 
Order one CPU before November 10, 1975 and 

deduct 20% off of all additional cards and ac- 
cessories. (Note: Discount does not apply to 
CPU cards, assembled or unassembled.) 



We told you JOLT® was the world's lowest priced computer system. These prices prove it. 



JOLT KITS 

(ALL PAYMENTS MUST BE IN U.S. DOLLARS) 

QUANTITY PRICING 

1-4 5-19 20-49 50-99 100 up 



JOLT® CPU 



$249 



$235 $230 $225 $215 



JOLT® RAM 265 

JOLT® I/O 96 

JOLT® POWER 

SUPPLY 145 

JOLT® UNIVERSAL 

CARD 25 

JOLT® ACCESSORY 

BAG 40 



ALL JOLT® KITS ARE DELIVERED COMPLETE WITH A DETAILED 
AND ILLUSTRATED ASSEMBLY MANUAL 

* Order will be shipped within 75 days. 



255 


250 


245 


235 


90 


88 


82 


75 


135 


130 


128 


115 


20 


18 


16 


14 


36 


34 


32 


30 



JOLT® CPU 
JOLT® RAM 
JOLT® I/O 
JOLT® POWER 
SUPPLY 



JOLT® ASSEMBLED PRICES 

(ALL PAYMENTS MUST BE IN U.S. DOLLARS) 

QUANTITY PRICING 

1-4 5-19 20-49 50-99 100 up 



$348 $325 $320 $315 $305 

320 305 300 295 280 

140 125 120 115 105 



190 



175 



170 



165 



150 



THE NEW JOLT® FROM MAI IS AVAILABLE ONLY ON A DIRECT BASIS. 
USE THIS COUPON TODAY TO ORDER FROM 



Microcomputer Associates Inc. 

111 Main St., Department G 
Los Altos, Calif. 94022 
Phone (415) 941-1977 




M975 Pehaco Corporation 



I 




This coupon will bring you a JOLT®! Complete 



and return it. 



Here is my check, money order or credit card payment for the 
following JOLT® products. If a U.S. or Canadian order, please add 
$4.86 for shipping, handling and insurance. (Orders to all other 
countries are priced F.O.B. Los Altos and will be shipped FREIGHT 
COLLECT.) 



Send me immediately: 

QUANTITY 



PRODUCT 



PRICE 



. JOLT® CPU KIT 

.JOLT®RAM MEMORY KIT 

. JOLT® I/O KIT 

.JOLT® POWER SUPPLY KIT 

.JOLT® UNIVERSAL CARD 

. JOLT® ACCESSORY BAG 

.JOLT® CPU ASSEMBLED 

.JOLT® RAM MEMORY ASSEMBLED 

.JOLT® I/O ASSEMBLED 

.JOLT® POWER SUPPLY ASSEMBLED 

TOTAL 



+ U.S./CANADA SHIPPING/HANDLING/INSURANCE 
NOTE: CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS, +6% SALES TAX 
TOTAL REMITTANCE (U.S. DOLLARS ONLY) 



20% 



NOW! Special ONE TIME BONUS DISCOUNT. 
Order one CPU before November 10, 1975 and 20% 
j deduct 20% off of all additional cards and ac- DfiMIIQ 
DUIMUO C essories. (Note: Discount does not apply to OUNUo 
CPU cards, assembled or unassembled.) 

PLEASE CHARGE THE TOTAL TO MY CREDIT CARD: 
BANKAMERICARD # 

MASTER CHARGE # 

My credit card expires on 
SIGNATURE 



(include 4-digit #) 



All credit card orders must be signed!) 

I UNDERSTAND THAT ALL U.S. ORDERS WILL BE SHIPPED VIA U.P.S. AND ALL 
INTERNATIONAL ORDERS WILL BE SHIPPED BY AIR. SEND MY ORDER TO: 

NAME 



ORGANIZATION 
CITY 



STATE _ 
PHONE 



I 



MAIL 
YOUR 
ORDER 
TO: 



(Include Area Code) 

'Make your check payable to: Microcomputer Associates Inc. 

International Orders: Payment should be cabled to Account 
\li #00417-06355 Bank of America, 215So. Murphy 

All orders subject to the prior approval of the manufacturer. Avenue, Sunnyvale, California, USA, 94086 



Pehaco Corporation, JOLT® Sales Agents 
Microcomputer Associates Inc. Dept. G 

111 Main St., Los Altos, Ca 94022 




J 



SOFTWARE - 

■ ■■■■■■ is the best thing to feed your computer! Makes it healthy! Gets rid of that dull, aimless, blinking 
lights expression so many small systems exhibit these days. Feed your machine SOFTWARE! Make it feel good. 
Machine will then perform services. That will make YOU feel good. Put your machine on a good SOFTWARE diet 
like some of the following CHOW! 

ASSEMBLER PROGRAMS FOR THE '8 8' 
Discusses a "minimum length" Assembler program that can reside in 2K of memory, plus a more sophisticated 
version for those who have additional memory and desire a more powerful version. Included in this manual is a 
thorough explanation of the fundamental concepts of an assembler's operation, details on how to format the 
"source listing," step-by-step analysis and presentation of subroutines, program flow charts, and assembled listings of 
the programs! Price? Avery reasonable $17.95. 

AN '8 8' EDITOR PROGRAM 
Describes variations of an "Editor" program that can reside in 2I< of memory. Additional memory may be used to 
increase the size of the text buffer. The program enables one to manipulate "text" in order to create "source 
listings" or perform other kinds of text preparation. Includes discussion of routines, flow charts, and assembled 
listing. Priced at just $14.95. 

'8 8' MONITOR ROUTINES 
Describes a "Monitor Control" package that allows you to control the operation of your computer from an external 
"keyboard" device. Various routines enable you to examine and modify memory locations and CPU registers, set 
"breakpoints" and execute programs for "debugging" purposes, control bulk storage I/O devices, and perform other 
useful functions. This manual comes complete with subroutine explanations, flow charts, and an assembled, highly 
commented program listing. Low priced at just $1 1 .95. 

NEW! - FOR HUNGRY 8080 MACHINES! 
AN '8 8 0' ASSEMBLER PROGRAM 

This assembler program utilizes some of the unique routines we utilized in our popular '8008' assembler which 
enables us to provide an '8080' assembler that operates comfortably in 4K bytes of RAM (including the symbol 
table). An unusual feature of this assembler program is that it has been designed to accept mnemonics closely related 
to those used by SCELBI for our '8008' based machines. What this means is that programs originally written for an 
'8008' unit can be directly processed by this assembler to produce object code for an '8080' machine! NEAT! Of 
course, it also handles the extended instruction set of the '8080' as well. This program is provided in our popular 
style of a manual that discusses the major routines, presents pertinent flow charts, and includes a highly commented 
assembled listing. $17.95. 

AN '8 8 0' EDITOR PROGRAM 
This is essentially a "carbon copy" of the material in our earlier manual describing a '8008' Editor, except the 
assembled listing is provided with the machine code for an '8080.' It is a good deal at $14.95. 

'8 8 0' MONITOR ROUTINES 
These routines perform the same types of functions as described above for the '8008' version except routines were 
specifically developed to utilize the extended capabilities of the '8080' instruction set. Great price at just $1 1.95. 

WANT TO "SPOON FEED" YOUR MACHINE? 

You CAN learn how to develop your own machine language programs. And, if you are really serious about utilizing a 
small system effectively, you had better plan on learning something about it sooner or later! Here is a good way to 
get started. 

MACHINE LANGUAGE PROGRAMMING FOR THE 
'8 8' (AND SIMILAR MICROCOMPUTERS) 
THIS manual was written to provide the reader with the detailed knowledge one needs to know in order to 
successfully develop machine language programs. This information packed publication discusses and provides 
numerous examples of algorithms and routines that can be immediately applied to practical problems. Virtually all 
the techniques and routines illustrated in the manual can also be applied to other similar microcomputers such as 
"8080" systems (by applicable machine code conversion). The price of this exciting new manual is a low $19.95. 
(The floating-point arithmetic package presented in the publication is worth that price alone!) 

Prices given are for domestic delivery at book mailing rate. Add $2.50 for each 
publication if PRIORITY air service desired (U.S.) Overseas - include $6.00 for each 
publication for airmail service. 

(Pricing, specifications, availability subject to change without notice.) 

Order direct from: 1322 REAR BOSTON POST ROAD 

ICEIll COIHPUIER DEPTDJ 

Z^HmmL-mm^ ZLTT" MILFORD CONNECTICUT 06460 

CONIUI.I IIMj INC. _^^_^_____ 



In the Queue 



Foreground 

LET THERE BE LIGHT PENS 26 

Hardware — Loom is 
LI FE Line 4 32 

Applications — Helmers 
GOLF HANDICAPPING 46 

Applications — Haller 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NOTES ON WIRE WRAPPING 56 

Techniques — Helmers 

Background 

NEW MINI-MICROCOMPUTER SYSTEM 12 

Processors — Baker 
HORROR STORY 31 

Problems — Warren 
TOTAL KITCHEN INFORMATION SYSTEM 42 

Systems — Lau 
INTEL 8080 OP CODE TABLE 50 

Reference — Dittrich 
MORETO BLINKING LIGHTS THAN MEETSTHE EYE . .52 

Applications — Helmers 
TAKING ADVANTAGE OF MEMORY ADDRESS SPACE . .60 

System Design — Luscher 
KOR k? 64 

Style - Peshka 
THE CT-1024 KIT 92 

Review — Hogenson 

Nucleus 



In This BYTE 4 

Beach Ball Software 9 

BOMB 10 

For the Joules, It's a Steal 67 

Clubs, Newsletters 68 

MITS Computer Caravan 73 

That Didn't Take Long at All 74 

Classified Ads 74 

BYTE's Bugs 77 

Answers to December Word Hunt 77 

Sphere Rolls Into Town 80 

Letters 82 

Book Reviews 88 

The BYTE Questionnaire 96 

Reader's Service 96 



BYTE magazine is published 
monthly by Green Publishing, 
Inc., 70 Main St, Peter- 
borough, New Hampshire 
03458. Subscription rates are 
$12 for one year worldwide. 
Two years, $22. Three years, 
$30. Second class postage 
application pending at Peter- 
borough, New Hampshire 
03458 and at additional mail- 
i n g offices. Phone 
603-92-1-7217. Entire contents 
copyright 1975 by Green Pub- 
lishing, Inc, Peterborough NH 
03458. Address editorial 
correspondence to Editor, 
BYTE, 70 Main St, Peter- 
borough NH 03458. 



New BYTE phone: 603-924-7217 



biti #5 



JANUARY 1976 




p. 12 



■Ml • '' ■ .1 I* 

■ S ',i f 'ii:.„. 

imm I 

FREE-HAW WRITING 




p. 32 




In This KITE 



On the cover, artist Robert Tinney has provided a scene 
depicting the combination of computers and golf handicapping 
described by Dr. George Haller in his article. 

How would you like a PDP-11 /40 in your basement 
computer room? The price would probably be too high for the 
typical amateur. But Digital Equipment Corporation also 
makes the LSI-11, a microcomputer which implements the 
PDP-11/40 instruction set and inherits a wealth of existing 
PDP-11 software. Turn to Bob Baker's article on the LSI-11 
for a summary. 

How do you draw a picture on an oscilloscope display? Add 
a Light Pen as described by Sumner Loomis, and you will be 
able to add and delete points of light. 

When the LIFE program can't figure out a key code, it calls 
DEFAULT, as described in LIFE Line 3. This issue's LIFE 
Line 4 specifies the DEFAULT routine used to enter cursor 
motion control data and numeric data for the KEY- 
BOARD_INTERPRETER. As a combined hardware and 
software system, the LIFE application enters the realm of 
hardware for the first time with a simple circuit to interface 
the cursor motion control keyboard and an ASCII keyboard 
via the same input port. 

Wire wrapping is a technique often used to assemble 
circuits. Turn to Photographic Notes on Wire Wrapping for 
some pointers for your own custom computer interfaces. 

According to tradition, no computer is ever complete 
without blinking lights. But There's More to Blinking Lights 
Than Meets the Eye, or the control panel designer's utilitarian 
motives. This issue provides a few ideas for using simple and 
inexpensive LED indicators in ways far removed from the 
traditional control panel application. 



In the October BYTE, Richard Gardner commented on the 
application of personal computers in household situations. In 
this issue, Ted Lau continues on that theme with an article of 
"structured speculation" on the Total Kitchen Information 
System (TKIS). 

Computers solve problems, right? One problem which 
golfers have is calculating handicaps so that duffers can play 
against pros in the same tournament. In Golf Handicapping 
(or: Buy a New Peripheral with Money Earned from Your 
Local Duffers), Dr. George Haller describes a program he 
concocted to serve as the basis for a part time business 
calculating golf handicaps at his country club. For readers with 
teenage children, this might make a great opportunity for the 
kids to make some money to help pay for college expenses 
while learning how to run a business. 

Computer systems have many resources which can be used 
by the person who assembles or modifies the design. One 
resource which is very important is the memory address space 
inherent in the design of the computer. Taking Advantage of 
Memory Address Spaces by James Luscher can provide 
important improvements in speed and function of your 
system. 

What is style? In his article K or k?, Manfred Peshka 
describes some notational conventions which apply to BYTE's 
unique combination of hardware and software information. 
While the change of these standards is incomplete in this issue, 
future BYTEs will employ the standard abbreviations and 
units throughout. 

What is one of the most useful peripherals? Why, the 
television set of course. To use the TV you need an interface. 
One such interface is the CT-1024 product by SWTPC 
reviewed by Jim Hogenson. 



Lowest Price in the World! 




In January of 1975, MITS stunned the computer world with 
the announcement of the Altair 8800 Computer that sells for 
$439 in kit form. 

Today MITS is announcing the Altair 680. 

The Altair 680, built around the revolutionary new 6800 
microprocessor chip, is the lowest priced complete computer on 

the market. It is now being offered at the special, 
low price of $345! 

The Altair 680 comes with power 
supply, front panel control board, 
and CPU board inclosed in an 
1 1" wide x 1 1" deep x 4 1 1/16" case. 
In addition to the 6800 processor, 
the CPU board contains the following: 

1. 1024 words of memory (RAM 
2102 type 1024 x 1-bit chips). 

2. Built-in Interface that can 
be configured for 
RS232 or 20 mA 
Teletype loop 
or 60 mA 
Teletype. 

3. Provisions for 
1024 words of 
ROM or PROM. 

The Altair 680 can be 
programmed from the front 
panel switches or it can be 

connected to a computer terminal (RS232) or a Teletype such as 
an ASR-33 or surplus five-level Baudott Teletype (under $100). 

The Altair 680 can be utilized for many home, commercial or 
industrial applications or it can be used as a development system 
for Altair 680 CPU boards. With a cycle time of 4 microseconds, 
16-bit addressing, and the capability of directly addressing 
65,000 words of memory and a virtually unlimited number of 
I/O devices, the Altair 680 is a very versatile computer! 

Altair 680 Software 

Software for the Altair 680 includes a monitor on PROM, 
assembler, debug, and editor. This software will be 
available to Altair 680 owners at a nominal cost. 

Future software development will be influenced by 
customer demand. MITS will sponsor lucrative software 
contests to encourage the rapid growth of the Altair 680 
software library. Programs in this library will be made 
available to all Altair 680 owners at the cost of 
printing and mailing. 

Altair Users Group 

All Altair 680 purchasers will receive a free one year 
membership to the Altair Users Group. This group is the largest 
of its kind in the world and includes thousands of Altair 8800 and 
680 users. 

Members of the Altair Users Group are kept abreast of Altair 
developments through the monthly publication, Computer 
Notes. 



Altair 680 Documentation 

The Altair 680 kit comes with complete documentation 
including assembly manual, assembly hints manual, operation 
manual, and theory manual. Assembled units come with 
operation and theory manuals. Turnkey model and CPU boards 
also include documentation. 

NOTE: A complete set of Altair 680 manuals in 
a 3-ring Altair binder is now available for $14.50 
(regularly $25). Offer expires January 30, 1976. 

Delivery 

Personal checks take 2-3 weeks to 
process while money 
orders and credit card 
purchases can be 
processed in 1-3 days. 
Delivery should be 
30-60 days but this 
can vary according to 
order backlog. All 
orders are handled 
on a first come, first 
served basis. 



Altair 680 Prices 

Altair 680 complete computer kit $345 

Altair 680 assembled and tested $420 

Altair 680T turnkey model (complete Altair 680 except 

front panel control board) Kit Only $280 

Altair 680 CPU board (including pc board, 6800 micro- 
processor chip, 1024 word memory, 3 way interface 
and all remaining components except power supply) . .$195 

Altair 680 CPU board assembled and tested $275 

Option IC socket kit (contains 40 IC sockets. CPU, 

memory and PROM sockets come with 680 kit) $ 29 

Option cooling fan (required when expanding 680 

internally) $ 22 

Option cooling fan installed $ 26 

PROM kit (256 x 8-bit ultraviolet, erasable 1702 devices) $ 25 
Connectors (Two sets of 25-pin connectors. Required 
when interfacing 680 to external devices) $ 22 

Prices, delivery and specifications subject to change. 




___ 




"Creative Electronics" 

M1TS/6328 Linn N.E., Albuquerque, NM 87108 505/262-1951 

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY! 

D Enclosed is check for $ , , , ____. 

□ BankAmericard # □ or Master Charge # 



□ Altair 680 D Kit D Assembled D Altair 680T _ Altair 680CPU 

□ Socket Kit □ Fan D PROM kit □ Documentation Special 

□ Please send literature 

NAMF. , , 

ADDRESS 

CITY 



. STATE & ZIP_ 



1ITS/6328 Linn N.E., Albuquerque, NM 87108 505/262-1951 



CALL FOR PAPERSACM '76 
OCTOBER 20-22,1976... 

HOUSTON 



Our 1976 Annual Conference will be held October 
20 - 22 in Houston. We feel that it will be one of 
the most relevant ACM conferences ever held, both 
for the practicing professional and the researcher. The 
conference facilities in downtown Houston's Regency 
Hyatt House will be outstanding. You will find that 
ACM '76 will be a place where you can enjoy your- 
self, renew old acquaintances, make some new ones, 
and participate in a serious technical discussion of the 
problems and potential of our industry. Plan to attend. 

Olin Johnson 

General Chairman, ACM '76 



about the conference 



You are invited to submit a paper on any aspect of 
computer research, development, or implementation. 
High quality papers of a theoretical, state-of-the-art or 
tutorial nature are welcome. The technical program for 
ACM '76 will again be organized around the ACM 
Special Interest Groups, although additional sessions 
will be provided for papers of general interest or those 
not related to any SIG. 

Papers must not have been previously presented or 
published; they should not exceed 10 published pages, 
including a 100-word abstract, bibliography, and illus- 
trations; and they must be received in four copies by 
March 1, 1976. All papers will be refereed either by the 
SIG's or by reviewers selected by the Technical Pro- 
gram Committee. Notification of acceptance will be 
made by May 1. If you intend to submit a paper, and 
we sincerely hope that you do, please send in the 
coupon below. If you have an idea for a good session 
or some other technical program idea, please do the 

same or start promoting your idea in your SIG 

but do it now! Be a part of the spirit of ACM '76! 



about the technical program 



ACM 



Be a part of the "Spirit of ACM '76" 



ASSOCIATION for COMPUTING MACHINERY 
1976 ANNUAL CONFERENCE 

Roger W. Elliott 

Technical Program Chairman, ACM '76 

Department of Industrial Engineering 

Texas A & M University 

College Station, Texas 77843 (713) 845-5531 



Name 



Address. 
City 



, State. 



I I I intend to submit a technical paper. 

Tentative title . 



. SIG (optional) 



I I I am enclosing a technical program suggestion. 

I I Please call me. I would like to discuss an idea for the technical program 




. Phone 



8Kby8 BOARD., 
4Kby8 BOARD,, 
2Kby8 BOARD., 




Ill 



E 
E 



ERON BOARD 
kill 



,$352 (add $48&we program) 
.$200 (add $25&we program) 
,$125 (add $15&we program) 



Now you can stuff up to 8K of your favorite soft- 
ware editor/assembler or what have you on a 

board. Program it yourself or have us do the pro- 
gramming. Just 1 ike the RAH kit, DIRECT ALTAIR 
PLUG-IN COMPATIBLE. Includes sockets, bypas- 
sing, industrial - qual ity plated - through board , 
buffered addresses and outputs, on board regula- 
tion. LOW POWER: Full 8K requires *A @ 5V, 150 
ma @ -12V. File protect feature includes line re- 
ceiver with real hysteresis to prevent false trig- 
gering on noise. EXPANDABLE: If you buy our 2K 
board and want to move on to bigger and better 
things (like 8K) , all you add is more sockets and 
EROMS. Your board doesn't become obsolete. 






4i< BY 8 RAM 
BOARD $109.22 

ONE-THIRD OF A CENT PER BIT--- Our most popu- 
lar memorv kit. You get sockets for all ICs, 
industrial-quality plated-through board, lots 
of bypassing, 5 voltage regulators to share 
the power load (less thermal problems, more 
reliability), typical 500 ns access time at 
25°C, and buffered addresses and outputs (no 
input presents more than 1 LPTTL load; out- 
puts can drive 20 standard TTL loads). May 
be powered with 8 volts unregulated; or by_ 
bypassing the on board regulators, with 
+5V. Complete with assembly instructions 
and logic print of the RAM board. 

altair 8800 owners, please note i 
This memory board kit, like our 
other memory kits, is directly 
PLUG-IN COMPATIBLE WITH THE 8800. 



SPECIAL Cf f Ifi 



We've got 4K by 8 boards pre-programmed with 8080 assembler, editor, and monitor rou- 
tines. $200 buys you the same quality and ALTAIR PLUG-IN COMPATIBILITY as our other 
memory kits. Another advantage: because this is EROM rather than mask programming, 
you can make changes if desired. Speaking of changes, although these routines work 
our really well, we are including 2 free updates to purchasers should bugs or modifi- 
cations develop. Any additional changes are available for a very nominal charge. 
SEND $2.95 CPPD) FOR OUR SOFTWARE INFO PACKET IF YOU WANT MORE INFO OR WANT TO LOAD 
YOUR OWN ROM BOARD. INCLUDES INSTRUCTION LISTING, SCHEMATIC, ASSEMBLY DATA, ETC. 



CAVI 

gragx 



LOW 
POWER 

ScHOHKY 



COMPARED TO STANDARD TTL, LOW 
POWER SCHOTTKY OFFERS 1/5 THE 
POWER CONSUMPTION-BUT WITH NO 
SPEED PENALTY. CONSIDERED BY 
MANY AS THE LOGICAL SUCCESSOR 
TO STANDARD TTL. 



74LSOO 
74LS04 
7^LS08 
74LS10 

74LS20 
74LS42 



Quad 2 input NAND gate 
Hex inverter 
Quad 2 input AND gate 
Triple 3 in NAND gate 
Dual 4 input NAND gate 
BCD to decimal decode 
7'iLS I 38 1 of 8 decoder 
74LSI68 Dec Syn Up/Down cntr 
74LS169 Bin Syn Up/Down cntr 
74LS175 Quad latch 



Hard to 
find TIL 



74273 8 bit latch (20 pin) 1.89 

7^365 Noninv 3 St buf NOR en .63 

7^366 Inv 3 state buf NOR en .63 

7^367 Noninv 4-2 buf w/ sep en .63 

74368 Inv 4-2 buf w/ sep en .63 

74390 16 pin dual decade cnt 1.50 

743S3 14 pin dual binary cntr 1.50 







^TATiMAVAV. VA%M.TiTi V 



CHIP SET $195 

1« PACE CPU 

4*DS3608 

1 • DS0026 

1» DM8837 
32 • 2102 (4k bytes RAM) 
2 • MM5204 (1k byte ROM) 
AND OUR PACE 

DATA PACKET! 



A POWERFUL 16 BIT PROCESSOR. 4 PIN DIP; CAPABILITY FOR 45 
CLASSES OF INSTRUCTIONS AND UP TO 337 INSTRUCTIONS. INTERFACE 
CHIPS PROVIDE TTL COMPAT I B I L I TY--RAMS AND ROMS PROVIDE MEMORY, 
AND THE PACE DATA PACKET TELLS YOU HOW TO APPLY EVERYTHING. 

PACE DATA PACKET AVAILABLE SEPARATELY FOR $2.50 (COVERS PRINT- 
ING AND POSTAGE). 80 PAGES OF INFORMATION ON THE CHIP ITSELF, 
SOFTWARE, SYSTEM ORGANIZATION, AND MORE. ALSO INCLUDES AN 11" 
BY 17" INCH FOLD0UT LOGIC PRINT OF PACE IMPLEMENTATION. 

IF YOUR INTEREST IS MICROCOMPUTERS, AND PARTICULARLY PACE, YOU 
WILL WELCOME THIS DATA PACKET. PURCHASE PRICE REFUNDABLE WITH 




PACE ORDER. 

I. 




BILL GODBOUT ELECTRONICS 
BOX 2355, OAKLAND AIRPORT, CA 94614 



TERMS: Add poitage. whete indicated; add 50$ to ondeJU undeA $10. No C0V 
ondvu>; iVi a lot o& papeAWotik ^cl ua. Calico tiniani add tax. To place. 
RankameAicaAd® on McwieAcdaAge® oideAi, colt (4/5) 357-7007 , U houAi a 
day. VIzoac .tcmcmbe*. thlt> i& an an6wzju.no 4eAu.cce, and i& not &zt up to 
handle. to.ahntc.al queAtionA . 
Want to know about all the. otheA itu&& we ieJUl Send (,01 ouA FREE FL/ER.' 



TINY 

Rotary 

Switch 



Single pole, seven position + 
off. in td-5 can; tiny for 
circuit board mounting. good 
for programming £ much more. 

$1.25 EA OR 3/$2 . 95 

@®M ®LF /h 
©ILJSXgK 

This is the successor to our 
'cheap clock' kit. it is an 
easy to assemble kit that in- 
cludes everything you need to 
make a working clock, except 
case and hardware, 
it features 3/10 in. readouts 
for hours, minutes, and sec- 
onds. 50/60 hz operation, 12 
or 2* hour display format. 
Sockets for IC and readouts 

PROVIDED. 



THE READOUTS 
REMOTEDi THE 



CAN BE EASILY 
CLOCK, IN CON- 
JUNCTION WITH OUR 60 HZ TIME 
BASE ($10.95) IS AN EXCELLENT 

AUTOMOBILE CLOCK. 

ADD SHIPPING FOR 1 POUND. 

BOTTOM-OF-THE-PAGE- ITEMS: 
LM340T: 1A regulator, TO-220 plas- 
tic package. 6 or 8 volts: 95<: ea . 











TITLE: Microcomputer Dictionary & Guide 
AUTHOR: Char/es J. Sippi 

This new microcomputer dictionary fills the urgent need for all computer people, 
engineers, scientists, industrialists, communications people — as professionals, 
amateurs, teachers, or students — to become quickly acquainted with the 
terminology and nomenclature of a new revolution in computer control capa- 
bilities in areas that pervade most of man's daily activities. 

Over 3500 definitions and explanations of terms and concepts (approx. 350 
pages) relating to microprocessors, microcomputers and microcontrollers. 
There are also separate appendices on: programmable calculators; math and 
statistics definitions; flowchart symbols and techniques; binary number systems 
and switching theory; symbol charts and tables; summaries of BASIC FORTRAN 
and APL. In addition there is a comprehensive electronics/computer abbrevia- 
tions and acronyms section. Price: $14.95 




MATRIX PUBLISHERS, INC. 

Dept. BM, 207 Kenyon Road, Champaign, IL 61820 

Please send me the new MICROCOMPUTER DICTIONARY under your 
15 day no risk trial guarantee. If payment accompanies order we pay 
all shipping and handling charges. (III. customers add 5% sales tax) 

Name. 



Address- 
City 



. State . 



Zip 



Beach Ball 
Software 



Editorial 

by 

Carl Helmers 



What a predicament. You've bought this 
box full of printed circuit boards, trans- 
former iron and integrated circuit silicon. 
After long hours paying attention to the 
details of an intricate assembly process it is 
"done." To the best of your abilities you've 
verified that the box does what it is 
supposed to do. Now it's sitting over there 
on the bench (or living room table (or office 
desk)) plugged into the AC wall outlet and 
grinning like a Cheshire cat with a mouth 
full of LED or TVT teeth. So, now what do 
you do with it? Like many objects of some 
bulk and substance, it seems so useless — but 
is it? There are lots of human designed 
objects which at first sight appear to be 
useless. But most turn out to have great 
potential value which can be released by the 
active and creative human mind. The secret 
of use and enjoyment is the application of 
that most characteristically human capacity 
to think. The hobby created about these 
artificial "brains" is an excellent training 
ground for the human brain — one of the 
secrets of its appeal. 

But Then, What Good is a Beach Ball Either? 

As an example of a simple object which 
requires creativity to realize its potential, 
consider a child's beach ball. Imagine for a 
moment that your newly constructed com- 
puter kit is sitting on its pedestal and begins 
slowly to change into a beach ball through 
some advanced technological "magic." Its 
corners begin to round, the edges smooth 
out, and after some moments of transforma- 
tion it is a jolly round beach ball having the 
same general properties the computer had: it 
sits there looking useless to the skeptic. 

As an intelligent and active being, 
curiosity is one of your most admirable 
traits. So you walk over to the pedestal, pick 
up that beach ball and begin a thorough 
examination of its characteristics. What do 
you find? As you pick it up you verify that 
it is a solid object which has the expected 
weight of a beach ball. You rotate it about 
several axes and verify that it is indeed a 



sphere within the limits of your perception. 
Using an appropriate measuring tool you 
find that its diameter is 30 cm. The surface 
is resilient but hard. The ball slips out of 
your hands and drops to the floor where its 
resilience is confirmed by a healthy rebound. 
After the examination, you put it back on 
the pedestal. Again, the thought: what good 
is a beach ball? It sits there with no life of its 
own, not even condescending to wink an 
LED at you. How could anyone possibly 
shell out hard earned cash for such an 
object? 

Beach Ball Software 

But people do shell out lots of hard 
earned money for beach balls. And people 
such as you and I are not fools when we buy 
a quality beach ball. We know beach balls 
are useful through our appreciation of fun 
and advertising of the products. The beach 
ball is the basic "hardware" required to play 
numerous games; beach balls are even used 
on occasion for more practical tasks. The 
beach ball is a widely distributed standard 
product with a simple design. Very little user 
documentation is supplied by the manufac- 
turers and distributors of beach balls. The 
wide acceptance of the beach ball is due to 
the numerous applications inherent in its 
design. These applications await the creative 
minds of human beings who decide what to 
do with the ball and how to do it. Any game 
or recreation which uses the beach ball as a 
prop is an example of the "beach ball 
software." Such games may have been made 
up generations ago and stored in the form of 
word of mouth learning, printed books or 
magazines on the subject. Or, they may be 
made up or reinvented spontaneously and 
never recorded at all. Whatever the source, 
the game and its rules form a method of 
using the beach ball which takes advantage 
of its properties, but is not in any way built 
into the device. 

So having temporarily approached the 
problem from the point of view of a beach 
ball, let's invert the transformation and turn 
the object back into a computer. We still 



EITI 

staff 



PUBLISHERS 

Virginia Green, President 

Manfred Peshka, General Manager 

EDITOR 

Carl T. Helmers, Jr. 

PRODUCTION EDITORS 

Beth Alpaugh 

Judith Havey 

ASSOCIATES 

Hal Chamberlin 

Dan Fylstra 

Don Lancaster 

Chris Ryland 

PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT 

Lynn Panciera-Fraser, Manager 

Nancy Estle 

Neal Kandel 

Peri Mahoney 

Bob Sawyer 

PHOTOGRAPHY 

Ed Crabtree 

Bill Heydolph 

DRAFTING 

Bill Morello 

TYPESETTING 

Barbara Latti, Manager 

Marge McCarthy 

PRINTING 

Biff Mahoney 

INVENTORY CONTROL 

Marshall Raymond, Manager 

Kim Johansson 

CIRCULATION 

Judy Waterman, Manager 

Pat Geilenberg 

Dorothy Gibson 

Pearl Lahey 

Deborah Luhrs 

COMPTROLLER 

Knud E. M. Keller 



A manufacturer who 
supplies a series of 
interesting sample pro- 
grams to illustrate the use 
of his processor and 
system is providing you 
with a valuable service . . . 



have not solved the problem of where to get 
the specific creativity required for the com- 
puter software, but the beach ball analogy 
provides a useful model. 

A computer system, like a beach ball, is 
an incomplete system no matter how fully 
supported by manufacturers' software. No 
manufacturer can tell you what you want to 
do with the machine in complete detail. The 
manufacturer can supply suggested uses and 
build in features which make certain uses 
inherently easy to program, but ultimately 
the user of the computer must decide what 
to program or when to use the programs 
available. The beach ball system is com- 
pleted when the beach ball user decides 
upon a particular game or practical applica- 
tion in which the beach ball is a key 
element. It might be that the beach ball 
simply makes the application easier to per- 
form, or it might be that the beach ball is so 
crucial that the application would not even 
have been possible without that ball. The 
computer system is also completed when 
you — the user — decide how you want to 



BOIN/1B; BYTE's Ongoing Monitor Box 

BYTE would like to know how readers evaluate the efforts of 
the authors whose blood, sweat, twisted typewriter keys, smoking 
ICs and esoteric software abstractions are reflected in these pages. 
BYTE will pay a $50 bonus to the author who receives the most 
points in this survey each month. (Editor Helmers is not eligible for 
the bonus.) The following rules apply: 

1. Articles you like most get JO points, articles you like Jeast get 
(or negative) points — with intermediate values according to 
your personal scale of preferences. 

2. Use the numbers to 10 for your ratings, integers only. 

3. Be honest. Can all the articles really be or 10? Try to give a 
preference scale with different values for each author. 

4. No ballot box stuffing: Only one entry per reader! 

Fill out your ratings, and return it as promptly as possible along 
with your reader service requests and survey answers. Do you like an 
author's approach to writing in BYTE? Let him know by giving him 
a crack at the bonus through your vote. 



Page 

No. Article 

12 Baker: Mini-Microcomputer 

26 Loomis: Light Pens 

31 Warren: Horror Story 

32 Helmers: LIFE Line 4 

42 Lau: Kitchen Information System 

46 Haller: Golf Handicapping 

50 Dittrich: Op Code Table 

52 Helmers: Blinking Lights 

56 Helmers: Wire Wrapping 

60 Luscher: Memory Address Space 

64 Peshka: K or k? 

92 Hogenson: CT-1 024 Kit Review 



LIKED 



LEAST 














BEST 


1 2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


1 2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


1 2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


1 2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


1 2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


1 2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


1 2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


1 2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


1 2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


1 2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


1 2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


1 2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 



employ the computer. It might be that you 
use the computer simply to improve the 
efficiency of some menial task, or you might 
use the computer in an application — such as 
complex interactive games — which would 
have been impossible to perform minus the 
computer's intelligence. Like any activity, 
you get out of a computer rewards which arc 
in proportion to the effort applied to under- 
stand and "get into" the activity. 

With computers — as with beach balls — it 
is often possible to find a starting point in 
this area of applications and software. 
Creativity of the individuals who have pre- 
viously thought about the subjects involved 
can often be useful as a starting point. By 
seeing concrete examples of the uses of the 
computer systems, you can acquire a 
valuable basic understanding of what can be 
done. One obvious source of such informa- 
tion is in the form of BYTE articles. 

Another form is in the user support 
packages provided by manufacturers. A man- 
ufacturer who supplies a series of interesting 
sample programs to illustrate use of his 
processor and system is providing you with a 
valuable service — you find out how things 
arc done with his computer in specific and 
detailed examples. One excellent example of 
such a service is the documentation which 
can be purchased for the assembler and text 
editor programs of the SCELBl computers - 
complete listings of the programs with 
detailed explanations and design information 
are provided in the manuals for these 
SCELBl program products. When evaluating 
a computer system, look for such examples 
in the documentation and compare the 
offerings on this point. There are other 
sources of information about the creative 
uses of the computers of the world. Direct 
information can often be acquired in the 
context of the computer club, an association 
of users for the purpose of solving problems, 
exchanging ideas, filling in gaps in 
knowledge, etc. When you talk to your 
technological neighbor about what he or she 
is doing, you can get valuable information 
on the possible applications of your 
machine; and of course your neighbor 
receives similar benefits in return. 

It is this kind of exchange of creativity 
and ideas among interested individuals which 
will make the personal computing field into 
a well developed facet of our civilization, 
growing out of the scattered and isolated 
efforts of individuals who pioneered the 
activity. One of the main reasons for BYTE 
magazine's very existence is to help foster 
this transfer of information, to give our 
readers the knowledge and ideas useful as 
creative starting points for personal applica- 
tions of computers. ■ 



10 



JSolder less. 
Design more. 




The soldering iron 
As a design tool, 
it s obsolete. 



Whether you're 

a full-time engineer 
or spare-time 
hobbyist, there are 
only so many hours 
a day you can 
spend designing 
and building 
circuits. So why 
not make the most 
of your time 9 
Design circuits literally as 
fast as you can think. I nstead of 
starting your next project with a 
soldering iron, save time by 
starting with our Design Mate' M 1. 
lnacompact(7' ? "Wx6 3 /4"Dx 
3X"H) case with a convenient 
sloping top. it offers solderless 
breadboard i ng at its best: 790 
terminals: a continuously-adjust- 
able regulated 5-15 VDC 600 mA 
supply: and a DC voltmeter to 
monitor the internal supply or 





we can fill them. For 
larger capacity, save time with 
our Proto-Board" series— 660 to 
3060 terminal points, with or 
without built-in regulated power 
supplies. For smaller applica- 
tions, use 1 or more 
of our handy QT 
Sockets and Bus 
Strips, locking 
them together for 
infinite expand- 
ability, as you need 
it. Starting at $2.00. 

Other ways to 
save time and 
money. Proto- 
Boards. QT Sockets and Bus 
Strips are just the beginning of 
the many ways we can help make 
your life more enjoyable: how 
about a foolproof, shortproof 
way to test Dl P IC's— even in 
operating circuits— for just 
$4.50*? A full-featured, preci- 
sion function generator for 
$64.95*? A professional R/C 
bridge for $49.95*? A way to 
instantly see and monitor logic levels in an 
operating IC, without expensive scopes or j&jtev-. 



test your operating circuit. 

With Design Mate 1, hooking 
up (or changing) a circuit is as 
simple as pushing leads into 
holes on the breadboard. Rugged 
5-pomt contacts insure reliable. 
low-resistance connections 
between resistors, capacitors, 
transistors . . . even IC's in TO-5 
or DIP packages. And short 
lengths of solid *22 AWG wire 
make interconnections easy 
wherever you need them. 

At $49.95* complete, it's not 
only a time-saver, it's a money- 
saver too. 

Larger capacity? Smaller 
capacity? Have it your way. 
Whatever your 
breadboarding 
needs, 

Proto-Board 103. 
2250 solderless 
terminals save 
you time on every 
circuit you design. 



Test DIP s with 
power on and 
hands off — even 
on the most 
crowded circuit 
board with our 
Proto-Clip ' series 





9*A 



Design Mate 2 
versatile function 
generator, only S64.95 



elaborate procedures. And more, to save you 
time, money and 
aggravation. 
Time is money: 
Start saving it. Ask 
your CSC dealer 
to show you how to solder 
ess. design more and take the 
drudgery out of your electronic life. 
Or send for our free catalog and dealer list 

"Manufacturers recommended retail. 

CONTINENTAL SPECIALTIES CORPORATION 



■•: 




Design Mate 3 
Precision R/C 
bridge.justS49.95- 






44 Kendall Street. Box 1942 

New Haven. CT 06509 • 203-624-3103 TWX: 710-465-1227 

West Coast office: Box 7809. San Francisco. CA 

94119 •415-421-8872TWX: 910-372-7992 

Canada: Len Finkler Ltd., Ontario 



c 1975 Continental Specialties Corp. 



11 



A New 

Mini - Microcomputer 

System 

The Digital Equipment 
Corporation LSI- 1 1 



Robert W, Baker 
34 White Pine Dr. 
Littleton MA 01460 



Digital Equipment Corporation has a new 
addition to the microcomputer market. 
Designated the LSI-11, it is a complete 16 
bit microcomputer system on a single 8.5 
inch by 10 inch (21.6 cm by 25.4 cm) 
printed circuit board, combining the instruc- 
tion set of a PDP-11/40 with an under 
$1000 price. 

A 3.5 inch H by 19 inch W by 13.5 inch 
D (8.9 cm by 48.3 cm by 34.3 cm) boxed 
version of the LSI-11 is designed as an 
off-the-shelf microcomputer system. Desig- 
nated the PDP-11/03, it consists of an 
LSI-11 microcomputer, serial line interface, 
power supply, and a mounting box designed 
to mount in a standard 19 inch cabinet. 
Removing the front panel exposes the LSI 
modules and cables allowing replacement or 
installation of a module from the front of 
the PDP-11/03. The power supply has three 
front panel switches and indicators 
accessible through a cutout in the front 
panel. The lights and switches are still 
attached to the power supply and functional 
when the front panel is removed. Input 
power of the PDP-11/03 is typically 190 
Watts at full load. 

LSI-11 Evolution 

The processor, memory, device interfaces, 
backplane and interconnecting hardware of 
the LSI-1 1 are all modular in design to allow 
custom tailoring necessary for specific appli- 
cation requirements. It was not intended to 
be a low end minicomputer, but to provide 
minicomputer capability to the new micro- 
computer applications. 




12 



To accomplish this goal, the LSI-11 was 
designed to optimize system costs rather 
than component costs. A four-chip micro- 
programmed central processor was selected 
to emulate the PDP-11 instruction set, 
allowing the inclusion of automatic dynamic 
memory refresh without additional cost. The 
microprogrammed processor also makes 
feasible user microcode and an ASCII con- 
sole which will be discussed later. 

Central Processor 

The central processor module consists of 
the microprogrammed processor and 4096 
words of memory, together with the bus 
transceivers and control logic. The four chip 
microcomputer controls the time allocation 
of the LSI-11 bus for peripherals and per- 
forms all arithmetic and logic operations as 
well as instruction decoding. Eight 16 bit, 
general-pupose registers can be used as 
accumulators, address pointers, index 
registers, stack pointers, or other desired 
functions. Arithmetic operations can be 
from one register to another, from one 
memory location or device register to 
another, or between a memory location or a 
device register and a general register. Data 
transfers between IO devices and memory on 
the bus occur without disturbing the 
processor registers. 

Bus 

The bus, which is implemented on the 
H9270 card guide backplane assembly, is the 
data path which enables a complete system 
to be configured. This bus was designed to 
allow low cost peripheral interfaces for 
microcomputer applications, rather than to 
support the wide range of peripheral config- 
urations common to large minicomputer 
systems. The processor module is capable of 
driving six device slots along the bus without 
additional termination, as provided with the 
H9720 backplane. Devices or memory can 
be installed in any location along the bus, as 
most bus control and data signals are bidirec- 
tional, open-collector lines that are asserted 
when low. The bus signals include 16 multi- 
plexed data/address lines, 6 data transfer 
control lines, 6 system control lines, and 5 
interrupt and direct memory access (DMA) 
control lines. 

Any communication between two devices 
on the bus is in the form of a master-slave 
relationship. Only one device, the bus 
master, can have control of the bus at any 
point in time. The master device controls the 
bus while communicating with another 
device on the bus, the slave. Since the 
LSI-11 bus is used by the processor and all 
10 devices, there is a priority structure to 
determine which device gets control of the 



bus. Every device on the bus capable of 
becoming bus master has a specific priority 
associated with its position along the bus. 
When two devices request use of the bus 
simultaneously, the higher priority device 
will receive control. All data transfers on the 
bus are interlocked so that communication is 
independent of the physical length of the 
bus and the response time of the slave so 
long as a bus timeout does not occur. 
Asynchronous operation allows each device 
to operate at the maximum possible speed. 

Interrupt System 

Interrupt and DMA handling incorporates 
two daisy-chained grant signals. This method 
eliminates device polling to service interrupt 
requests and establishes an interrupt 
priority. The highest priority device is the 
module located electrically closest to the 
microcomputer module. Only when a device 
is not asserting a request does it pass grant 
signals to lower priority devices. When an 
interrupting device receives a grant, the 
device passes to the processor an interrupt 
vector which points to a new processor 
status word (PSW) and the starting address 
of an interrupt service routine for the device. 
The current value of the PSW and program 
counter (PC) are stored on the stack. 

The processor operates with the interrupt 
mask (PSW bit 7) set (1) or cleared (0). 
When PSW bit 7 is equal to 1, no external 
device can interrupt the processor with a 
request for service. The processor must be 
operating at PSW bit 7 equal to for the 
device's request to be effective. Interrupts 
can occur only between processor instruc- 
tions since they change the state of the 
processor. DMA operations, on the other 
hand, may occur between individual bus 
cycles since these operations do not change 
the processor state. 

One signal line on the bus functions as an 
external event interrupt line to the 
processor module. When connected to a 60 
Hertz line frequency source, this signal line 
can be used as a real-time clock interrupt. 
When automatic interrupt dispatch (vec- 
toring) is not needed, this line may be used 
as a common interrupt signal. Although this 
necessitates device polling (as in earlier 
computers, such as the PDP-8), device inter- 
faces may now be slightly less complicated. 
A single connection on the processor module 
enables or inhibits the external event 
interrupt. When enabled, the device con- 
nected to this line has a higher interrupt 
priority than any device connected to the 
daisy-chained grant signals. 

Power Fail/Restart 

To further increase the system flexibility, 
several power fail/restart options are avail- 



13 




able. The power fail sequence is initiated 
upon sensing a warning signal from the 
power supply signaling an impending AC 
power loss. The current PSW and PC are 
pushed on the processor stack and a new PC 
and PSW are taken from a vector at location 
24. Normally, with non-volatile memory, 
this routine would save processor registers, 
set up a restart routine, and halt. When only 
volatile memory is used, the registers cannot 
be saved but the power fail trap does allow 
an orderly system shutdown to occur. 

When AC power is restored, one of the 
four jumper selectable power-up options is 
initiated. The first option is loading a pro- 
grammed PSW and PC from the vector at 
location 24. This would be used with non- 
volatile memory to continue execution of 
the program at the point where the power 
fail occurred or to restart the program at an 
arbitrary address with ROM program 
storage. If the BHALT line on the bus (the 
halt switch) is asserted during this power-up 
sequence, the ASCII console microcode will 
be entered immediately after loading the 
PSW and PC. The second power-up option 
causes an unconditional entry to the ASCII 
console routines. The processor can then be 
started by an ASCII console command 
allowing remote system starting without 
controlling the bus halt line. (More on the 
ASCII console later.) Alternately, the last 
two options allow program execution to 
begin at a specified address in either macro- 
code or microcode. 

Memory 

The 4096 word memory on the basic 
CPU module consists of sixteen 4096 bit 
dynamic RAMs. This memory logically 
appears on the external bus while being 
physically on the CPU module. Being 
accessible to the bus allows external DMA 
transfers to take place to and from the basic 
4096 word memory. Also, an optional 
jumper allows the CPU module memory to 
occupy either the first or second 4096 word 
block of the bus address space. 

Various memory modules are available 
for applications requiring more storage than 
the standard 4096 word MOS memory on 
the processor board. Those offered include a 
non-volatile 4096 word core memory, a 
1024 word static RAM, read-only memory 
(PROM/ROM) with a maximum capacity of 
4096 words per board in 512 word incre- 
ments or 2048 words in 256 word incre- 
ments, and a 4096 word dynamic MOS 
RAM. 

A common disadvantage of using 
dynamic MOS memory is the necessity of 
refreshing the contents of memory at 
specific intervals. The refresh operation is 
required to replace the stored charge in each 



14 



The MODULAR MICROS 
from MARTIN RESEARCH 

Here's why the new MIKE 2 and MIKE 3 
are the best values in microcomputers to- 
day! 

8008 OR 8080 

Martin Research has solved the problem 
bothering many potential micro users 
.... whether to go with the economical 
8008 microprocessor, or step up to the 
powerful 8080. Our carefully designed 
bus structure allows either processor to 
be used in the same system! 

The MIKE 3 comes with an 8080 CPU 
board, complete with crystal-controlled 
system timing. The MIKE 2 is based on 
the 8008. To upgrade from an 8008 to 
an 8080, the user unplugs the 8008 CPU 
board and plugs in the 8080 CPU. Then 
he unplugs the 8008 MONITOR PROM, 
and plugs in the 8080 MONITOR 
PROM, so that the system recognizes the 
8080 instruction set. That's about it! 

If the user has invested in slow memory 
chips, compatible with the 8008 but too 
slow for the 8080 running at full speed, 
he will have to make the 8080 wait for 
memory access— an optional feature on 
our boards. Better still, a 4K RAM board 
can be purchased from Martin Research 
with fast RAM chips, capable of 8080 
speeds, at a cost no more that you might 
expect to pay for much slower devices. 

In short, the MIKE 2 user can feel confi- 
dent in developing his 8008 system with 
expanded memory and other features, 
knowing that his MIKE 2 can be up- 
graded to a MIKE 3— an 8080 system— in 
the future. 

EASE OF PROGRAMMING 

Instructions and data are entered simply 
by punching the 20-pad keyboard. Infor- 
mation, in convenient octal format, ap- 
pears automatically on the seven- 
segment display. This is a pleasant con- 
trast to the cumbersome microcom- 
puters which require the user to handle 
all information bit-by-bit, with a confus- 
ing array of twenty-odd toggle switches 
and over thirty red lights! 

A powerful MONITOR program is in- 
cluded with each microcomputer, stored 
permanently in PROM memory. The 
MONITOR continuously scans the key- 
board, programming the computer as 
keys are depressed. 

Say the user wishes to enter the number 
135 (octal for an 8008 OUTPUT 16 in- 
struction). He types I, and the right- 
hand three digits read 007. Then he 
presses 3, and the digits say 013. Finally 
he punches the 5, and the display reads 
735. Notice how the MONITOR program 
(Continued in column 3.) 



QUICK.... 

what number is this? 



o o# o 



o 



If you have to read your microcomputer 
like this— bit by bit, from rows of lights— the 
computer's making you do its work. And if 
you have to use rows of toggle switches to 
program it. you might wonder why they 
call the computer a labor-saving device! 

Contrast the layout of a typical pocket 
calculator. A key for each number and 
function; six easy-to-read digits. Why not 
design microcomputers like that? 




Here they are! The modular micros from 
Martin Research. The keyboard programs 
the computer, and the bright, fully- 
decoded digits display data and memory 
addresses. A Monitor program in a PROM 
makes program entry easy. And, even the 
smallest system comes with enough RAM 
memory to get started! 

Both the MIKE 2 system, with the popular 
8008 processor, and the 8080-based MIKE 
3 rely on the same universal bus structure. 
This means that accessories— like our 450 
ns 4K RAM— are compatible with these 
and other 8-bit CPUs. And, systems start 
at under $300! For details, write for your... 

FREE CATALOG! 



MIKE 2 

MANUAL... 

This looseleaf 

book includes 

full information 

on the MIKE 2 

system, with 

schematics. 




Price for orders received 

by November 15, 1975... 

Includes a certificate worth 

a modular micro system, good 90 days. 

(Offer valid, USA only.) After 11/15: $25. 



$19 

>10 towards 



^ modular micros ^ martin research ;T 



Martin Research / 3336 Commercial Ave. 
Northbrook, IL 60062 / (312) 498-5060 



shifts each digit left automatically as a 
new digit is entered! The value on the 
display is also entered into an internal 
CPU register, ready for the next opera- 
tion. Simply by pressing the write key, 
for example, the user loads 135 into 
memory. 

The MONITOR program also allows the 
user to step through memory, one loca- 
tion at a time (starting anywhere), to 
check his programming. Plus, the Swap 
Register Option allows use of the inter- 
rupt capabilities of the microprocessor: 
the MONITOR saves internal register 
status upon receipt of an interrupt re- 
quest; when the interrupt routine ends, 
the main program continues right where 
it left off. 

We invite the reader to compare the pro- 
grammability of the MIKE family of 
microcomputers to others on the mar- 
ket. Notice that some are sold, as basic 
units, without any memory capacity at 
all. This means they simply cannot be 
programmed, until you purchase a mem- 
ory board as an "accessory." Even then, 
adding RAM falls far short of a conve- 
nient, permanent MONITOR program 
stored in PROM. Instead, you have to 
enter your frequently-used subroutines 
by hand, each and every time you turn 
the power on. 

EASY I/O INTERFACE 

The MIKE family bus structure has been 
designed to permit easy addition of in- 
put and output ports. A hardware inter- 
face to the system generally needs only 
two chips— one strobe decoder, and one 
latching device (for output ports) or 
three-state driving device (for inputs). A 
new I/O board can be plugged in any- 
where on the bus; in fact, all the boards 
in the micro could be swapped around in 
any position, without affecting opera- 
tion. I/O addresses are easy to modify by 
reconnecting the leads to the strobe de- 
coder (full instructions are provided); 
this is in marked contrast to the clumsy 
input multiplexer approach sometimes 
used. 

POWER & HOUSING 

The micros described to the left are com- 
plete except for a cabinet of your own 
design, and a power supply. The basic 
micros require +5 V, 1 .4 A, and — 9 V, 
100 MA. The 4K RAM board requires 
5 V, 1 A. A supply providing these volt- 
ages, and ±12 V also, will be ready soon. 

OPTIONS 

A number of useful micro accessories are 
scheduled for announcement. In addi- 
tion, the MIKE 3 and MIKE 2 may be 
purchased in configurations ranging from 
unpopulated cards to complete systems. 
For details, phone, write, or check the 
reader service card. 



15 



memory cell which has been lost through 
leakage currents. To eliminate most of the 
control circuitry normally necessary to per- 
form this memory refresh, the LSI-11 CPU 
microcode features automatic refresh con- 
trol. 

When enabled by an optional jumper, the 
CPU refresh control causes execution of a 
microcode subroutine approximately every 
1.6 milliseconds; this operation refreshes all 
dynamic MOS memory in the system, not 
just the memory contained on the CPU 
module. While asserting a bus signal causing 
all dynamic memories to cycle at the same 
time, the CPU performs 64 memory 
references to refresh their contents. During 
the burst refresh time, external interrupts 
are locked out while DMA requests are still 
possible. 

Maximum memory size of the 16 bit 
LSI-11 is 65,536 bytes or 32,768 words. 
Usually the top 4096 words of memory on 
members of the PDP-11 family are reserved 
for peripheral device control and data 
buffers, so the nominal maximum main 
memory size is 28,672 sixteen bit words. 
However, the user is not required to dedicate 
the entire upper 4096 word space to IO, but 
may implement only what is needed. Octal 



addresses 000 to 376 are usually reserved for 
trap and device interrupt vector locations. 
Several of these are reserved in particular for 
software generated interrupts (TRAPS) as 
shown in Appendix A. 

Instruction Set 

All operations are accomplished with one 
set of instructions rather than the conven- 
tional collection of memory reference in- 
structions, operate/accumulator control 
instructions, and IO instructions. Single and 
double operand address instructions for 
words or bytes are used with a wide range of 
addressing modes, providing efficiency and 
flexibility in programming. The various 
addressing modes include sequential forward 
or reverse addressing, 8-bit byte addressing, 
1 6-bit word addressing, and stack addressing. 
Using variable-length instruction formatting 
allows a minimum number of words to be 
used for each addressing mode. 

Each processor instruction requires one 
or more bus cycles. The first operation 
fetches an instruction from the location 
specified by the program counter (PC). If no 
further operands are required for executing 
the instruction, no further bus cycles are 
used. If memory or an IO device is 




16 



R lGS ELECTRQIMf lCS 

DISCOUNTS: 10% OFF ORDERS OVER $25.00; 20% OFF ORDERS OVER $250.00. 



SPECIAL 

1-8008 $50 

8-2102 



ANOTHER POWER SUPPLY . . . 

PS 25—1 to 25v 1a lab type power supply with adjustable current 
limiting; remote sensing & remote programming for voltage & current. 
Insturctions included. All parts except chassis, meter(s), p.c. board. 
Kit of parts with schematics. S14.95 

P.C. boards available, No. 007 $3.00 ea. 



2K RAM BOARD KIT. ALL 
PARTSINCL. SOCKETS 

$84. 50 



ICs 

8008 MICROCOMP. CHIP$30.95 
2102 1 K STATIC RAM 3.00 

5203 256x8 PROM 15.00 

5204 512x8 PROM 25.00 

INFO ON ABOVE CHIPS IF 
ASKED FOR. 




ORDERS OF $50 OR 
MORE GET FREE BYTE 
SUBSCRIPTION IF ASKED 
FOR (CONTINENTAL U.S. 
ONL Y). 



008A MICROCOMPUTER KIT 

8008 CPU, 1024 x 8 memory; memory is expand- 
able. Kit includes manual with schematic, program- 
ming instructions and suggestions; all ICs and parts 
supplied except cabinet, fuses & hardware. Includes 
p. c. boards. $375.00 

MANUAL ONLY, $25.00 
(no discount on manual) 



008A-K ASCII keyboard input kit. $135.00 

008A-C Audio cassette adapter kit. $100.00 

Details on computer, peripheral kits in our flyer. 



RGS ELECTRONICS 
3650 Charles St., Suite K ■ Santa Clara, CA 95050 ■ (408) 247-0158 



We sell many ICs and components not listed in this ad. Send a stamp for our free flyer. TERMS OF SALE: 
All orders prepaid; we pay postage. $1 .00 handling charge on orders under $70.00. California residents please 
include sales tax. Please include name, address and zip code on all orders and flyer requests. Prices subject to 
change without notice. 



17 



referenced, however, one or more additional 
bus cycles are required. 

A special maintenance instruction is 
included in the LSI-11 instruction set to aid 
in hardware checkout. This instruction 
stores the contents of five internal registers 
in a specified block in main memory. A 
diagnostic program may then be used to 
examine the information and determine the 
internal operation of the micro-level 
processor. 

The basic instruction set is that of the 
familiar DEC PDP-11 /40 without memory 
mapping. Included are several operations 
normally not found even in other small 
PDP-11 processors, such as exclusive-or 
(XOR), sign extend (SXT), or subtract one 
and branch (SOB). There are also two new 
instructions used to explicitly access the 
processor status word (PSW). With the 
optional extended arithmetic chip, full 
integer multiply/divide and floating point 
arithmetic are also available. The instruction 
set is more comprehensive than that of the 
PDP-11/05 while the execution times are a 
little slower. Refer to Appendix B for a 
complete list of the LSI-11 instruction set 
and Appendix C for typical timings. 

The branch instructions make use of the 
condition codes (PSW bits to 3) which are 
set after execution of every arithmetic or 
logical instruction. This allows more 
efficient use of memory by eliminating extra 
instructions and temporary storage locations 
typically used to check results of various 
operations. The result of every operation is 
directly accessible and can be modified 
under software control by using any of the 
Condition Code Operator instructions. A list 
of the four condition codes along with a 
brief definition of each is listed in Appendix 
D. 

Software 

Since the LSI-11 uses standard PDP-11 
software, there is an extensive library of 
programs available from DEC including 
diagnostic programs to check out your 
system after it is built. There is also a DEC 
Users Society (DECUS) which makes avail- 
able a complete library of various PDP-11 
programs at reasonable prices. Every LSI-11 
owner automatically becomes a member of 
this organization. 

ASCII Console 

The conventional front panel lights and 
switches are replaced by an ASCII console/ 
ODT package that operates with any stan- 
dard terminal device communicating through 
a serial interface at a specific device address 
at any available baud rate. The functions 
available are very similar to those used by 
the familiar PDP-11 Octal Debugging Tech- 



nique and are shown in detail in Appendix 
E. These include examining and changing the 
contents of memory and registers, calcula- 
tion of effective addresses for relative and 
indirect addressing, and the functions of 
halt, single-step, continue and restart. By 
examining the contents of an internal CPU 
register, it is possible to determine which of 
the five methods of entering the console 
routines was used. 

Upon entering the console routine, the 
location of the next instruction to be exe- 
cuted will be printed followed by @. The 
console routine will then wait for one of the 
14 legal command characters. Thus, the user 
retains all the direct hardware control of a 
conventional lights and switches front panel 
and gains the ability to boot load from a 
specified device in byte transfer mode. 

Interfaces 

The LSI-11 system includes several 
standard interface modules to handle a 
variety of applications. Currently both a 
serial and a parallel IO interface is available, 
each as a single 8.5 inch by 5 inch (21.6 cm 
by 12.7 cm) PC board. The DLV-11 handles 
a single asynchronous serial line between 50 
and 9600 baud, while the DRV-11 provides 
a full 16-bit parallel interface complete with 
two interrupt control units. The use of the 
two standard interface modules makes it 
very simple to connect any desired device to 
the LSI-11 bus. Standard devices such as 
teletypes, line printers, analog to digital 
converters, etc., can be connected directly to 
the interface modules with no additional 
circuitry. A simple cassette recorder inter- 
face can be made using the DRV-11 parallel 
interface, a UART chip, and a simple speed 
independent recorder interface circuit such 
as that shown in Don Lancaster's article 
Serial Interface, page 30, in the September 
issue of BYTE. ■ 



Are you interested in buying one? 

This article has described the details of 
the LSI-11 computer by Digital Equipment 
Corporation. For those interested in pur- 
chasing the board version of this computer, 
the Southern California Computer Society is 
organizing a group purchase for amateurs. 
This purchase will involve an original equip- 
ment manufacturer (OEM) quantity of 50 or 
more machines, on a basis of cost plus 2% 
minimum contribution to SCCS. For further 
information contact Hal Lashlee of The 
Southern California Computer Society, at 
213-682-3108. SCCS is organizing Quantity 
purchases of other computer equipment, and 
is interested in making such offerings avail- 
able through other computer clubs. 



18 



Branches: 



APPENDIX A: TRAP VECTORS 



BR 

BNE 

BEQ 

BPL 

BMI 

BVC 

BVS 

BCC 

BCS 



Unconditional branch 
Branch if not equal to 
Branch if equal to 
Branch if plus 
Branch if minus 
Branch if overflow is clear 
Branch if overflow is set 
Branch if carry is clear 
Branch if carry is set 



Signed Conditional Branches: 



004 
010 
014 
020 
024 
030 
034 
060 
064 
100 
244 



Vector 

(Reserved) 

Time out S other errors 

Illegal & reserved instructions 

BPT instructions 

IOT instructions 

Power Fail 

EMT instructions 

TRAP instructions 

Console Input Device 

Console Output Device 

External event line interrupt 

FIS option 



BGE 
BLT 
BGT 

BLE 



Branch if greater or equal to 
Branch if less than 
Branch if greater than 
Branch if less or equal to 



Unsigned Conditional Branches: 



BHI 
BLOS 
BHIS 
BLO 



Branch if higher 
Branch if lower or same 
Branch if higher or same 
Branch if lower 



Condition Code Operators : 



APPENDIX B: 

LSI- 11 INSTRUCTION SET 





MNEMONIC 


INSTRUCTION 


ingle 


Operand - 


General : 




CLR 


Clear word 




CLRB 


Clear byte 




COM(B) 


Complement (l's) 




INC(B) 


Increment 




DEC(B) 


Decrement 




NEG(B) 


Negate (2 ' s complement 




TST(B) 


Test 


lotate 


& Shift: 






ROR(B) 


Rotate right 




ROL(B) 


Rotate left 




ASR(B) 


Arithmetic shift right 




ASL(B) 


Arithmetic shift left 




SWAB 


Swap bytes 



Multiple Precision: 

ADC(B) 
SBC(B) 
SXT 



Add carry 
Subtract carry 
Sign extend 



CLC 

CLV 
CLZ 
CLN 

ccc 

SEC 

SEV 
SEZ 
SEN 

sec 
Jump s Subroutines: 

JMP 

JSR 
RTS 
MARK 
SOB 

Trap s Interrupts : 



EMT Emulator trap 

TRAP Trap 

BPT Breakpoint trap 

IOT Input/Output trap 

RTI Return from interrupt 

RTT Return from interrupt 

Miscellaneous Instructions: 



Clear C Condition Code Bit 

Clear V 

Clear Z 

Clear N 

Clear all condition code bits 

Set C Condition Code Bit 

Set V 

Set Z 

Set N 

Set all condition code bits 



Jump 

Jump to subroutine 

Return from subroutine 

Mark (aid in subroutine return) 

Subtract 1 & branch if not 



Processor Status (PSW) Operators: 



MFPS 
MTPS 



Move byte from PSW 
Move byte to PSW 



Double Operand - General: 



MOV(B) 
CMP(B) 
ADD 
SUB 



Logical: 



BIT(B) 
BIC(B) 
BIS(B) 
XOR 



Move 
Compare 
Add 
Subtract 



Bit test (logical AND) 
Bit clear 

Bit set (logical OR) 
Exclusive OR 



HALT 
WAIT 
RESET 
NOP 

Optional EIS : 

MUL 
DIV 
ASH 
ASHC 

Optional FIS: 

FADD 
FSUB 
FMUL 
FDIV 



Halt 

Wait for interrupt 
Reset external bus 
(no operation) 



Multiply 

Divide 

Shift arithmetically 

Arithmetic shift combined 



Floating add 
Floating subtract 
Floating multiply 
Floating divide 

Continued on page 22 



19 




:\Y! ...YIIAVI 



features ~ 

mm ultra high speed intelligent display 

— generates 16, 64 character lines 
of alpha-numeric data 

mm displays upper and lower case 
characters 

mm full 128 ascii characters 

mm single printed circuit card 

mm standard video output 

SPECIAL FREE OFFER! 

Scientific Notation Software Package with Formatted Output 

The floating point math package features 12 decimal digits with exponents from +127 to —127; 
handles assigned and unassigned humbers. With it is a 5 function calculator package: + — X "^ & 
sq. root. It includes 3 storage and 3 operating memories and will handle chain and column 
calculations. 



With the purchase of (1 ) VDM-1 and (1 ) 4KRA-4 Memory: 

Just $299.00 (Offer expires 2-1 -76) 



from- 

Processor Technology 



vim:o 



DISPLAY 
AMHHIM 



I 




' ..: '^M 



Corporation 



2465 Fourth Street 
Berkeley, Ca. 94 710 



Continued from page 19 

APPENDIX C: 

TYPICAL INSTRUCTION TIMING 



INSTRUCTION 




TIME (usee) 


ADD R1,R2 




3.5 


MOV R3,R0 




3.5 


MOV TAG 1,10 


(R2) 


11.55 


TSTB (R3)+ 




5.25 


BMI TAG 2 




3.5 


JSR PC, 2 (R2) 




8.05 


JMP (R4) 




4.2 


RTI 




10.5 



Optional EIS S FIS Instructions: 
MUL 24 - 64 

FADD 42.1 

FMUL 52.2 - 93.7 

FDIV 151 - 232 



APPENDIX E: 

ASCII CONSOLE/ODT COMMANDS 



COMMENTS 

Register addressing 

Relative & index addressing 

Auto-indexed 

Conditional branch 

Subroutine call 

Jump indirect 

Return from interrupt 



APPENDIX D: 

PSW CONDITION CODES 



Multiply 






Floating add 






Floating mult 


CODE 


PSW BIT 


Floating divide 


N 


3 




Z 


2 




V 


1 



Command 



Function 



CONDITION WHEN SET = 1 

If result were negative 

If result were zero 

If operation resulted in 
an arithmetic overflow 

If operation resulted in 
a carry from the msb (most 
significant bit) or a 1 
was shifted from the lsb 
(least significant bit) 



<CR > 

< LF> 

Up-arrow 
Back-arrow 



r/ 






/ 






?n/ 


or 


Rn/ 


r;G 


or 


rG 


nL 






;P or 


P 


RUBOUT <DEL> 



Close opened location and accept next command. 

Close current location; open next sequential 
location. 

Open previous location . 

Take contents of opened location as a 
relative address, and open that location. 

Take contents of opened location as 
absolute address and open that location. 

Open word at location r. 

Reopen the last location. 

Open general register n(0-7) or S (PSW). 

Go to location r and start program 

Execute bootstrap loader using n as device 
CSR. Console device is 177560. 

Proceed with program execution. 

Erases previous numeric character. Response 
is a backslash (N) . 



Continued on page 24 



22 



Go Computer Now! 



Why not ? 



FROM $860 TO $11,300 SPHERE CAN'T BE BEAT! 

SPHERE starts with a CPU using a Motorola 6800 microprocessor, a Real-Time Clock, 4K of dynamic memory, IK of 
PROM software. The CRT Board generates 16 lines by 32 characters of ASCII on a television or video monitor. Keyboard is 
complete with numeric and cursor editing keypads. From here, hardware can be expanded to your hearts desire with extra 
memory boards (up to 64K), serial communications interface, cassette interface, Modem, digital I/O (as many as you need). 
Floppy Disk memory (up to 4 disks), 8 computer terminals, line printer etc. ..all from one M6800 chip. 

With a SPHERE Computer, stand-alone development is just the beginning, you can configure your system to handle 
your problem solving/record keeping needs. All SPHERE Computer Systems come complete with useable software languages. 
Available are "PDS" IK Basic, or extended Basic Compiler. When computer is turned on, it immediately goes into a comm- 
and mode, so that you can instantly start programming. "PDS" contains a mini-assembler, editor, debugger, and utility comm- 
and set in IK of PROM. Also available is a IK subset of Basic. Our extended Basic compiler is complete with string, matrix, 
and file functions, and requires 12K of memory. With this software you can perform your applications whether it be account- 
ing, home management, education, security monitoring, research, business, etc. Why not invent your own application? For 
play or for work your biggest problem is no problem at all. S860 is the start for an operating Computer System Kit. Your 
computer is ready and comes complete with operator manuals sufficient for first-time computer users. Contact us today for 
more information. 



KIT 

Si50 



ASM 

$520 



ONE-CARD COMPUTER: Motorola bHOO microprocessor, 4K RAM, 
512 bytes EPROM (containing a Program Development System!, a 
REAL-TIME CLOCK. 16 LINES OF DIGITAL I/O. hard wired ROM 
Monitor, and a serial type interface. This is the 100-quantity price, 
extended to the hobby user for a limited time on a single unit. 



62 , CPU BOARD: Motorola MOO microprocessor, 4K RAM, IK EPROM 
(containing an EDITOR, ASSEMBLER, DEBUGGER. COMMAND 
LANGUAGE, CASSETTE LOADER, DUMPER, UTILITIES!, and a REAL- 
TIME CLOCK. 

1400 . SPHERE 1: Includes the CPU BOARD described above, plus 512 
character video with full ASCII keyboard and numeric'cursor 
keypad, power supplv, chassis, manuals and associated parts. 



KIT 

S999 



ASM 

$1499' 



fa 100 7995' 



SPHERE 2: Includes all features of SPHERE 1 , plus serial communica- 
tions and audio cassette or MODEM interface. 



'250" sp HERE 3: Includes all the features of SPHERE 2, plus memory 
totaling 20K which is sufficient to run full extended BASIC Language. 



SPHERE 4: Includes all of the features of SPHERE 3, except the 
cassette has been replaced by an IBM-compatable Dual Floppy Disk 
System. This system includes a Disk-operating System and BASIC 
Language and a fa5 LPM line printer. 

OTHER SPHERE PRODUCTS: Light pen option; full color and B/W 
video graphics system: low cost Dual Floppy Disk System; and full 
line of low cost peripherals. 



'This ASSEMBLED SPHERE System includes the complete chassis, and video monitor as pictured below. 





SPHEFE 

CORPORATION 

791 South 500 West Dept. 129 (801) 292-8466 

Bountiful, Utah 84010 



23 



Continued from page 22 



BUS 



BUS 
TIMEOUT 



DMA 



JUMPER 

SELECTABLE 

OPTIONS 



A collection of parallel data paths 
and power lines used to 
interconnect the various elements 
of the system, including the 
central processor, memory, and 
all peripherals. 

Bus timeouts or bus errors occur 
whenever the controlling device 
on the bus (the bus Master) does 
not receive a response from the 
addressed device (the Slave) 
within a certain length of time. In 
general, these are caused by 
attempts to reference 
non-existent memory or 
peripheral devices. Bus error traps 
cause processor traps through the 
trap vector address 4. 

Direct Memory Access. For high 
speed devices, memory may be 
accessed directly through the bus 
without the use of program 
controlled data transfers. 

The CPU module contains 
locations for six wire jumpers to 
control the various operating 
options as follows: 

1. Two wires select which of the 
four possible power-up options is 
desired. These are normally set to 
restart through vector location 24 
(so the LS 1-1 1 acts as a standard 
PDP-11). 

2. One wire jumper enables the 
external event (or real-time clock) 
interrupt feature when inserted. 

3. One wire jumper enables the 
automatic dynamic memory 
refresh feature when inserted. 

4. Two wire jumpers determine 
the addressing of the 4K RAM 
memory located physically on the 
CPU module. 



PC 



POWER-UP 
SEQUENCE 

OPTION 

1 
2 
3 



PSW 



STACK 



TRAP 



Program Counter. A register 
which contains the address of the 
next instruction to be executed. 



Two wire jumpers on the CPU 
module select one of the four 
possible power-up modes: 

POWER-UP 
PC at 24, PSW at 26, or HALT 
ODT- ASCII Console 
PC= 173000, or HALT 
Special processor microcode 

The power-up sequence is 
initiated upon supplying power to 
the processor module or on 
restoration of power after a 
temporary power fail has 
occurred. 



Processor Status Word. Contains 
information on the current status 
of the processor including the 
priority mask (bit 7) and the 
condition codes (bits to 3). 



An area of memory set aside by 
the programmer for temporary 
storage or subroutine/interrupt 
sevice linkage. The stack uses the 
"Last In — First Out" concept; 
thus various items may be added 
to a stack in sequential order and 
retrieved or deleted from the 
stack in reverse order. Stack starts 
at the highest location reserved 
for it and expands linearly 
downward. In the LSI-11, register 
6 is reserved as the hardware stack 
pointer and must be initialized by 
the software. However, registers 
to 5 may be used for various 
program defined stacks as needed. 



Software generated interrupt. 



MACROCODE 



Each wire jumper consists of a 
short length of bare copper wire 
soldered between two designated 
holes in the PC board. 

The instruction set which the 
programmer sees and actually uses 
to implement his program, such as 
the PDP-11 instruction set in this 
case. 



VECTOR A unique address which points to 

a reserved set of locations (2 
words) for interrupt or error 
handling. The first word contains 
the starting address of a service 
routine (a new PC) while the 
second holds the new PSW to be 
used by the service routine. 



MICROCODE The low level instruction set used 
in a microprogrammed processor 
to "emulate," or execute, the 
macrocode. Microcode is more 
primitive in function, but 
executes at a higher speed than 
the macrocode. 



VOLATILE Volatile memory, such as RAM, 

MEMORY will not retain useful information 

without power applied 
continuously. Non-volatile 
memory, such as core or ROM, 
will always retain its information 
with or without power applied. 



24 



Memory Hania! 



4K - 



II K 
16 K 



$115! 
$401! 
$561! 
$696! 



THE MORE THE MEMORY THE MERRIER! 

The SPHERE Memory board. Is designed to hold 16K of memory on one board. 
2107A-8 memory chips are used on this board and are designed in 4K increments to 
allow choice of 4, 8, 12, or 16K. Each memory chip is socketed and is delivered to you 
completely assembled and tested. The PC memory board connects to the CPU board 
tri-state buffered bus cables. The memory locations are strap selectable as to order of 
addressing. Those memory mania purchasers of 12 or 16K who have, or who buy, any 
SPHERE Computer System will get absolutely free the SPHERE extended BASIC com- 
piler. All documentations will be included. 

ITS ALL DYNAMIC MEMORY! 



SPHERE CORPORATION 
Dept. 130 

791 South 500 West 
Bountiful, Utah 84010 

Dear SPHERE: 

Yes! The facts I've read have convinced me! 

□ Please rush me more details on your memory board. 

□ Please rush me more details on your low-cost computer 
system and peripherals. (Specific questions, if any, are 
attached.) 

Print Name: . 

Address: 



City and State: 
Zip Code: 




SPHERE 

CORPORATION 

791 South 500 West Dept. 130 (801) 292-8466 

Bountiful, Utah 84010 



25 



KITTEN ON 8" VSMt 



KITTEN ON 4' WSfW 



Photo I: The ease of removing just one dot from a 
fuii field display depends upon the display size. 
The author's X-Y display has an adjustable size 
control which was used in preparing this picture. 



Let There Be 



Light Pens 



Sumner S. Loomis 
Loomis Laboratories 
Route 1 Box 131A 
Prairie Point MS 39353 



: : : : 1 1 


t • 

t a 

• • 
» ■ « 

• * • 

• • • » 

• • • • 

• • • • 
t • * • 
» • • • 

• • • • 

• • * • • 

• « • • • 

• • • • a 

• • ■ • • 

• • • • a 

• ■ • • • 

• ■ • • a 

■•■••• 

•••••• 

■ • • • • f 


• •••••**» Si! lit! S»il !• 

• ••■•* • ' i a a a i i m Mi! M 

•••''" , *•*«*(•**•*•*** 

•••'••• #l**fil»*#***t*i 

::::::' ::: :::• ••:::•:: :: 

•!••■ .1::: :i:iii: ill !< 
"" 1 :::::::: i •: : t s • 
is: : ::: ::::!i::i:i: 
: : i : s s 1 i J •• : i s t : t t J i 
:::::::::::::: 

«i* I'SIIIIIIIaa ••*»»• 

s s s ! : i : : : ! * . i • • SI • • • • • s s ; 
i 5 1 s ! » ! : i : I : i 
i : S s t ! . . i » * 1 1 • » • • * : i • • : 1 1 


• ! ; • 

::::ii : 
:::::: ; 

• ■ • • • * * 

t • • • • J ■ 
it*! ! ! 
■ • • • . S i 

s : : • • • • 
: : : . • 
i tiii 

I 1 • • • • • 
, 

• • • » i • 


• • • • • 

• • • • i 
■ ■it* 
ill** 

§ i 1 i i 

• •til 

4 • ■ • • 

list'* 

• • • • • 

iiit i 

• • • • • 

• • • • • 
i f |1 • 

• * * ! 

i • • • • 

*t • • • 

■ • * • 

• • i 

1 1 i i 

• • • ' 
I t fe < 

: it 
:: H 

• \\\ 

: : 

1 ! : ! 1 

• • • i 
t •• • 

• • • ; 


a * a a a • • i 
tfflff'* 

ilillfli 

•••••aaa 

• •••*** 

• • a a I a • 

:; iijij 
■ ■ « t • • # 

: ::::: 

SI • i • • a 
I • • • • • • 

I • a • ♦ • • 
X • a • a • ; 

• • a a • a • 
I • I • • • • 

w 


i I 

t f: 

5 


■••••••••••• 


IStfi«***lS!!!SSa 

• ••a* ISSSSIS 

• •*•••*•• •♦;•♦;!; 

••••••••■••itssitl 

!•• ••(•*»«•*'* •I:; 

••••••••••••••••if 


Hill 1 

: : ': : i : : : 

11 * 1 I a S 1 

• ••••••• 

• :i • i : i i 


illiilill 

i 
iiliiiiii 

if) FPti 


i if i 

•tit: .:: ::: 
ill ! ill 

•'ill i 

• ••if I I a a ♦ • 1 

iiiil ill 1 " 


■ Mt'iiliStiSiltiliiHiiiiitiii 

H ~ UPITTEN 


iiiiiiit 


UlSirat-J^B 


L "= URITTEN AT 10 FRAMES/SEC. 



Photo 2: The light pen can be used in an "erase" mode by filling the screen with "on" 
dots then selectively removing dots with the light pen. The titles added to this picture 
(and all the pictures in this article) were created with a separate character generator 
which is not described. 

26 



With only a few components and a few 
hours of construction you can add a versatile 
light pen to the oscilloscope graphics inter- 
face which has been described in the 
October 1975 issue of BYTE, page 70 ff. 

By holding the light pen to the face of 
the cathode ray tube (CRT), a point may be 
added or removed. This eliminates the 
awkward and time consuming effort 
required when using a program or manual 
switches to change the dots on the screen. 

The resolution and capability of the light 
pen are dependent on two characteristics of 
the CRT. The brightness and the size of the 
display tube will determine how easily you 
may add or remove one dot. An idea of the 
effect of display size may be had from photo 
1 . The word Test was written twice on a 1 2 
inch (30.5 cm) black and white TV picture 
tube configured as an XY display like an 
oscilloscope. The top word was written with 
the display adjusted to an 8 inch (20.3 cm) 
size, and the lower word was written with a 
4 inch (10.2 cm) display. Each letter was 
written with only one stroke of the light pen 
without touch up or corrections. With some 
practice, and possibly several passes, one dot 
may be added or removed if the display 
measures 8 inches (20.3 cm) or more. 
Further improvements to the pen are 
required with smaller display tubes. An 
advanced circuit that greatly improves the 
capability of the pen with small displays is 
also described in this article. 



The light pen can erase or draw 
depending on the setting of a switch. 
Examples of the two actions may be seen in 
photos 2 and 3. If the oscilloscope interface 
is adjusted for a high repetition rate, some 
smearing or carry over into the neighboring 
dot positions occurs. The author's system 
has a front panel control permitting ten 
repetition rates. A small improvement in 
resolution can be noted at the lower writing 
rates, as shown in photo 2. A frame consists 
of 64 by 64 dots. 

Theory of Operation 

The light pen operates on the principle 
that brightness is quite intense during the 
actual interval that a particular dot is being 
written by the CRT's electron beam. 
Although phosphor will continue to emit 
light for some time, the brightness decays in 
an exponential manner after the writing 
beam has moved on to the next dot. 

Figure 1 illustrates the simple light pen 
circuit. With proper adjustment of the sensi- 
tivity control (and possibly the brightness 
control), the photocell in the tip of the light 
pen will sense the moment in time when a 
dot is written at the particular location of 
the light pen. At this instant, the photocell 
will conduct, biasing the PNP transistor 
which causes a short pulse to be conducted 
through capacitor C1 to the base of the NPN 
transistor Q2. If the pulse is greater than .6 
V, this transistor will be driven into satura- 
tion, and the light pen output will fall to .3 
V. This output line is the connected to pin 5 
of the oscilloscope graphics unit which 
writes a 1 or a bit (dot or no dot) at 
precisely the instant that the dot position 
touched by the pen was addressed. 

The above procedure works quite well if 
the dot to be changed is illuminated at the 
time. With proper adjustment of the sensi- 
tivity control, we can usually use an illum- 
inated dot just above the point of action (it 
must precede the dot in scan sequence) to 
create a new dot in the next space. This 
action of extending a line can be quite useful 
for drawing bar graphs on the CRT. This 
mode of entry is possible because screen 
persistence allows the light pulse to be 
carried over into two or three subsequent 
dot positions depending on the frame speed. 

How can the photocell sense the dot's 
position if there is not any illumination to 
trigger it? This is accomplished by the flood 
circuit which is shown in figure 2. This 
circuit overrides the normal Z-axis control 
and floods the screen with light by feeding a 
logical one signal to the Z axis of the display 
uvvrt.. With this arrangement the pen is placed 
at the required dot position, the footswitch 
is actuated to flood the screen with light, 
and the photocell is energized when the 



.It .jl- j!i| it'., '.! •.!'"',. ,. 

. , in III i**Sii 

> »,! «H '• ,iil v .1*, 

t i,; A \ <ii *ii »• * "■ 

FREE-HAND WRITING 



Photo 3: The light pen can be used in an "enhance" mode by using a footswitch control 
to flood the screen momentarily when the light pen is in position. 






PC-I 


R-l 


MFG 


PHOTOCELL 


CONTROL 


Tl 


H-35 


IM 


Tl 


H-38 


2M 


Tl 


L-63 


5K 


CLAIRE 


903 


20K 



LIGHT-PEN 
OUTPUT |0 

?""*■ PIN 5 



h 



LIGHT PEN PC-I 



SI 

DDU 

DEPOSIT 
SPST 



Figure J: The simple version of the light pen can be constructed according to this 
schematic. All resistors 'A W. 



FROM DDU CARD 
Z OUTPUT 




_ TO OSCILLOSCOPE 
Z INPUT 



FOOT SWITCH S 



Figure 2: The foot switch control used to flood the screen for "enhance" mode 
operation is given in this circuit which modifies the Z-axis signal to the oscilloscope 
driver. 



27 



CHAR GEN 
10 PIN 5 WRITE S3 




DDU 



Figure 3.- By adding a pair of oneshots to the circuit, the ability to draw pictures is improved through a short 
data lockout period which avoids smearing. 



writing beam reaches that particular dot 
position. Releasing the footswitch removes 
the flood and allows the data to be 
examined. 

The circuits just described will probably 
suffice if you wish to use the light pen only 
for occasional correction of data. If you plan 
extensive and detailed work, such as 
cartooning or statistical data entry, a modifi- 
cation of the circuit will allow you to tailor 
the light pen's response to your own particu- 
lar needs and system speed. The circuit 
shown in figure 3 is similar to the one shown 
in figure 1 . However, it includes two oneshot 
multivibrators (contained in one CMOS 
DIP). The first one produces a constant 
amplitude pulse of approximately 200 nsec 
duration which is sufficient to bring about 
the storage of a 1 or bit in most versions of 
the 2102 memory (ICs 11 to 14 in the 
oscilloscope graphics interface). The second 
one delays the generation of another write 
command for .25 sec, giving the operator 
sufficient time to withdraw the pen from the 
screen or move to a new location, before a 
double or multiple dot can be drawn. Once 
the two pulses have been timed in accor- 
dance with a given system speed and the 
operator's writing speed, it becomes very 
easy to draw detailed images with the light 
pen. 



In figure 3 resistor R4 and capacitor C1 
control the length of the write pulse, and 
resistor R5 and capacitor C2 control the 
wait time. For the 4528 CMOS oneshot, the 
time of the pulse (T) measured in micro- 
seconds is a function of resistance (R) and 
capacitance (C) measured in ohms and 
microfarads, respectively, as follows: 

T = 2.5 * R*C** .85; 



where a single asterisk denotes multiplica- 
tion, and a double asterisk exponentiation. 
The circuit shown in figure 3 also 
includes a switch and connections for using 
the light pen with the author's text display 
and editing system. Exact details for this 
connection are not given here, as they will 
differ with the type and construction of the 
text display system. I found, however, that 
the shift register type memories commonly 
used in these systems require a much longer 
write pulse than is necessary for the 2102 
memories. It was also desired to eliminate 
the holdoff circuit (second oneshot) for tW\s 
application. These changes are accomplished 
with switch S1 and resistors R9 and R5. If 
these features are not desired, it is recom- 
mended that R9 be replaced by a wire, R4 
changed to 4.7 kfi and CI to 20 pF. 



28 



Construction 

As is shown in the table accompanying 
figure 1, several different types of photocells 
are suitable for use in the light pen. The 
Texas Instrument (Tl) type H-35 or H-38 is 
a very small device with a built in lens. These 
were originally designed for use in punched 
tape and card readers, thus the small size. 
Their size, sensitivity, and restricted field of 
view make them ideal for this application. 
The high impedance of these devices, how- 
ever, makes them somewhat slow for this 
application, particularly at low brightness 
levels. The slow response time limits their 
use at the faster scan rates, and complicates 
the smearing mentioned earlier. Another 
device, the L-63 type which is available from 
Radio Shack (276-140 infared detector), was 
found to be considerably faster. Being a 
much larger device, however, it has a larger 
field of view, and much of its speed advan- 
tage is lost to optical smearing. Models of 
both photocell types were built and tested 
by me, with only slight preference for the 
H-35. With some careful masking, and 
possibly the addition of a small, short focal 
length lens (e.g., Edmund Scientific number 
12050 cylinder lens, or a small drop of clear 
epoxy), this photocell will probably perform 
better than the H-35 for this application. 
The Claire types 903 and 903-L were tried 
with only fair results. 

Any ball-point pen or felt-tipped marker 
can be reworked to make a housing for your 
light pen. Take a tour of the local stationery 
store to find likely candidates. The L-63 
photocell was found to fit nicely into the 
end of a Graphi-100 marker pen which can 
easily be disassembled with diagonal cutters. 
An example of the construction with the 
L-63 is shown in photo 4, and the H-35 
assembly is shown in photo 5. 

Secure the photocell in place with epoxy 
adhesive after attaching the shielded cable. 
The cable can also be secured against damage 
from pulling by filling the entire pen with 
silicone rubber adhesive or ordinary house- 
hold bathtub caulk. It is wise to keep the 
cable short, especially with the H-35 or H-38 
photocells, to obtain maximum possible 
response speed. I used an 18 inch (45.7 cm) 
long miniature coaxial cable leading to a 
miniature phone plug. 

If you are using the simple circuit of 
figure 1, the parts can be assembled on a 
small turret terminal board available at most 
electronic supply houses. This assembly is 
shown in photo 6. The circuit of figure 3 can 
be assembled in the same manner with the 
addition of a 1 6 pin DIP socket. R4, R5, CI 
and C2 should be mounted in such a manner 
that they can be changed easily (Cambion 
601-1512 component clips are useful here). 










Photo 4: This shows a pen based on the 11 type L-63 photocell, built using a marking 
pen case. 








"mm w«*2 




Photo 5: This picture shows an assembled light pen using a Tl type H-35 (or H-38) 
photocell with a standard ballpoint pen housing. 





■ ' 



Photo 6: This photo illustrates how the circuit of figure 1 can be assembled using a small 
turret terminal board. The transistors and R5 are mounted out of sight on the rear side 
of the board. 



29 



. .1 . 



IMPROVED FREE-HAND WRITING 



The sensitivity control may be conveniently 
mounted on the front panel. 

The operation of the light pen requires 
control of the inputs to the oscilloscope 
graphics unit. I have found that one of the 
most convenient ways in my system is 
through a set of manual data switches. This 
type of input was illustrated as a test fixture 
for the oscilloscope graphics interface in 
figure 5 on page 75 of the October 1975 
issue of BYTE. In my system, these data 
input switches are shared with a Mark-8 
minicomputer front panel by means of an 8 
pole double throw toggle switch. It is also 
possible to set up input codes to the 
oscilloscope graphics unit using software in 
the microcomputer system which drives it. 

In order to enter data with the light pen, 
a deposit switch is pressed whenever the pen 
is in the proper position for data entry. The 
deposit switch should be mounted in a 
convenient location near the display tube 
and light pen. In my system the light pen 
deposit switch was mounted next to the 
original deposit switch of the Mark-8 com- 
puter. 



Photo 7: Using the improved circuit of figure 3 reduces much of the over-writing of 
multiple dots which occurred using the original circuit of figure 1. This is an enhance 
mode picture. 




Photo 8: This illustrates a cartoon drawn using the erase mode of operation with the 
improved circuit of figure 3. 



Using The Light Pen 

To illustrate the use of the light pen, we 
will cover the procedure necessary to draw a 
simple figure on the screen in the erase mode 
using manual controls. Set the switch 
register to 1000 0110 binary (turn scan on) 
and depress the deposit switch. This should 
produce random dots on the screen. Set the 
switch register for 1000 0010 binary (set Z 
on) and depress the deposit switch again. 
The screen will show a full field of dots. (If 
the Z axis polarity of your display tube is 
reversed, you will have to use the "set Z off" 
command (1000 0011 binary) to illuminate 
the screen.) Set the switch register for 1000 
0010 (set Z on), but do not activate the 
deposit switch. Now bring the light pen in 
contact with the display CRT, and note that 
the dot or dots within its field of view are 
erased. To erase the entire screen and start 
over, simply press the deposit switch and 
repeat the above procedure. 

To write in the enhance mode (screen 
dark, writing illuminated dots), reverse the 
above procedure by wiping the screen clean 
with the "set Z off" command (while the 
scan is on), and after setting the switch 
register to "set Z on" without the deposit 
switch, proceed to write dots with the light 
pen. In this mode, the flood foot switch 
must be periodically activated to provide the 
required illumination. Examples of the light 
pen's drawing capability can be seen in 
photos 7 and 8. ■ 



30 



Horror Story 



Not too long ago, researchers at Stanford 
Medical Center in California were horrified 
to discover that several years of data that 
were stored on magnetic tape had 
disappeared. The tapes hadn't disappeared, 
just the data. The discovery was made when 
they attempted to retrieve some of the data 
for analysis, but found only "garbage" 
recorded on the tapes. Even more disturbing 
was the fact that these tapes were supposed 
to be ultra reliable. They had been especially 
developed for storage of important research 
data and used a fully redundant recording 
technique for improved reliability. 

Fully redundant recording is a storage 
technique in which each data bit is recorded 
in two different locations. In this case, 
DECtapeTM W as being used. This is tape 
that is 3/4ths of an inch wide and has six 
parallel data recording channels or paths. 
The data recorded in the three channels on 
one side of the tape is duplicated in the 
three channels on the other side. Thus, the 
tapes have half the data capacity that they 
could have, but their reliability is signifi- 
cantly improved. 

It should be noted that there are a 
number of other possible redundant storage 
techniques in use for improving reliability. 
For instance, "triply redundant recording" 
replicates each bit three times in three 
separate locations. Alternatively, depending 
on the allowable bit-patterns that may be 
used to store data, "partial redundancy" 
may be used. In this technique, a 
computation is performed on the explicit 
bit-pattern of each datum. The computation 
result requires fewer bits than the original 
datum, but may be used to either replicate 
the original datum (thereby recovering it, if 
necessary) or to at least verify the 
authenticity of the original datum. These are 
referred to as "error-correcting codes" and 



"error-checking codes," and form an 
on-going area of applied-mathematics 
research. In either case, partial redundancy is 
important in that it improves reliability, but 
requires less additional storage than 
full- or triple-redundancy. 

First, the researchers thought (prayed) 
that their tape decks were malfunctioning. 
Not so. Diagnostic checks were made and the 
tape equipment was working properly. Next, 
the tapes were examined. Nothing was 
wrong with them, physically, and in fact, 
new data could be recorded on them and 
retrieved without difficulty. They asked 
others around the Medical Center if they had 
encountered similar problems (there are 
about 50 computers at the Stanford Medical 
Center). None had. Then they looked for 
environmental causes, but there appeared to 
be none. The temperature and humidity 
recorders, common to biomedical research 
facilities, indicated no significant 
fluctuations. There had been no fires, no 
chemical accidents, and there was no x-ray 
or high power electronics gear in use nearby. 
The tapes had been in their individual boxes, 
just like the tapes for all of the other 
computer facilities in the Medical Center, 
and these boxes had been neatly stored on 
the bottom shelves of a cabinet, well out of 
the way of possible harm. It was a most 
frustrating puzzle. 

Finally, however, the mystery was solved. 
It seems that the janitor had made his 
biannual floor polishing rounds, using a 
heavy duty rotary floor polisher. The 
magnetic radiation from its massive motor, 
in proximity to the low shelved tapes, had 
raised havoc with the bit patterns that had 
been recorded on the tapes. 

The researchers now store their tapes on 
the top shelves. ■ 



Jim C. Warren Jr. 
Star Route Box 111 
Redwood City CA 94062 



31 



LIFE Line 




Integrating graphics control commands 



Carl Helmers 



In LIFE Line 3, the design of the 
DECODE routine of the LIFE program was 
presented. DECODE is designed as a table 
driven mechanism for selecting one of 
several subroutines which carry out the 
functions of the LIFE program's KEY- 
BOARD_JNTERPRETER. However if you 
examine table 1 of LIFE Line 3 (see p. 51 of 
BYTE #4), you will note one conspicuous 
and intentional lack: There are no routines 
which process the interactive graphics com- 
mands required to set up LIFE patterns on 
the scope display. Yet in LIFE Line 1, 
several special purpose keys were introduced 
as manual inputs for cursor motion control 
and data definition purposes. Where is the 
missing part of the program which interfaces 
these keys? What are the hardware implica- 
tions of requiring a special keyboard? 
Answers to these questions are the major 
concern of LIFE Line 4. Integrating the 
graphics control commands is a combined 
hardware and software topic. The software is 
that of the DEFAULT routine that inter- 
prets several keyboard inputs not handled by 
DECODE; the hardware consists of the 
design of a special keyboard interface to 
automatically switch between an ASCII key- 
board's 7-bit parallel output code and the 
LIFE graphics control keypad. 

The main requirement for LIFE cursor 
motion and data control is that one, two or 
three of the input keys can be depressed at 
the same time. This capability is needed in 
order to specify all the possible combina- 
tions of motion control and optional cell 
birth or death data inputs. The individual 
motion control possibilities (one key at a 
time) are the movements in four principal 
directions: up, down, left or right. When two 
motion control keys for perpendicular direc- 
tions are selected at the same time, diagonal 
motion is the desired result. With either 
form of motion control, entry of data can 



optionally be performed by depressing either 
the birth key or the death key at the same 
time. Thus as many as three keys may be 
sensibly pressed simultaneously when 
entering data. 

The large number of combinations 
possible for the six bits which will be needed 
for six switches strongly argues against 
making the software use a table driven 
algorithm such as DECODE. This is the 
reason why no cursor motion and data entry 
commands are found in table 1 of LIFE 
Line 3. Since each bit of the parallel 
information from the motion control 
switches can have an independent meaning, a 
specially programmed determination of 
motion control actions uses less memory 
than the huge table which would be required 
for all the combinations. Thus handling of 
motion control is left to the DEFAULT 
routine which is called by DECODE when it 
fails to decode one of the commands in table 
1 of LIFE Line 3. (DEFAULT also handles 
ASCII numeric inputs, as you'll see a bit 
later in LIFE Line 4.) 

Graphics Control Hardware Considerations 
For the hardware of LIFE, how can the 
need of this special set of input codes be 
reconciled with the need to input ASCII via 
the same eight-bit input port? One answer 
lies in the choice of an eight-bit format in 
which the most significant bit determines 
what lies in the low order seven bits. With 
this format, one state of the most significant 
bit indicates when an ASCII code is present 
in the low order; the other state of the most 
significant bit indicates when graphic control 
keyboard information is in the low order. 
This choice of format is supported in hard- 
ware by the addition of a simple interface 
module which uses seven integrated circuits 
to switch between data sources and 
debounce the motion control keyboard. 



32 



Graphics Control Commands 



Format: 7 

1 

I 



♦ t 



ASCII Keyboard Input 

Format: 7 





right movement if one 

left movement if one 

down movement if one 

up movement if one 

birth/death (one/zero) 

change enable, if one, 
move only if zero 

unused 

one to indicate a graphics 
command 



ASCII character (7 bit) 
zero to indicate ASCII 



Figure 1 : Data formats for graphic control commands and ASCII keyboard input. 



The combined ASCII and control data 
format is illustrated in figure 1. When the 
value of bit seven of the interface is read as 
one, the programming of the DEFAULT 
routine will always be entered and the low 
order bits will be analyzed as graphic control 
information as shown by the upper diagram 
in figure 1. The low order bits zero through 
three represent the individual key states of 
the motion control switches and the next 
two bits, four and five, are encoded with 
information on data entry from the birth 
and death switches. If the value of bit seven 
is read as a logical zero, the program will 
interpret the ASCII value of the low order 
bits through the DECODE routine of LIFE 
Line 3, or through the DEFAULT routine if 
the command is not in the table which drives 
DECODE. 

The hardware needed to implement this 
special interface is shown in figure 2. The 
interface consists of a two way data selector 
(IC6 and IC7) which determines whether the 
eight bit pattern presented to the system bus 
interface comes from the cursor motion 
control keyboard or from the ASCII key- 
board. The ASCII data is routed straight to 
the data selectors from a jack (J1) which 
receives a cable which connects to the 
keyboard unit. (The LIFE Line system 



prototype is currently using one of the 
surplus Sanders 720 keyboards described in 
BYTE #1.) The graphic control information 
is derived through jack J 2 from the special 
keyboard via the 7474 flip flops IC1, IC2 
and IC3. These D flip flops are being used as 
set reset flip flops by grounding the clock 
line and employing the preset (PRES) and 
clear (CLR) inputs for data and keyboard 
acknowledge functions respectively. The flip 
flop outputs for bits zero to three go 
directly to the data selector to define cursor 
motion inputs. The flip flop output for bit 
four (birth switch) also is directly connected 
to the selector. However, bit five of the 
selector's cursor motion inputs is taken from 
NAND gate IC4D which encodes a CHANGE 
ENABLE signal when either birth or death 
data input is indicated. (Note that the user 
of the LIFE cursor motion control keyboard 
is on his honor not to push both birth and 
death keys simultaneously — with this 
encoding logic, birth always locks out 
death.) One item derived from the cursor 
control keyboard is a key pressed signal 
produced by 7430 NAND gate IC5. This 
signal is inverted by IC4C and used to 
control the data selector: If any key on the 
cursor motion control keyboard is pressed, 
the ASCII keyboard will be locked out; 



A flip flop with preset and 
clear inputs can be used in 
place of a hand-wired set 
reset flip flop. 



33 



LIFE INPUT KEYBOARD 
JACK J2 




PULSE TO 2 
KEYBOARD 
DEVICE FOR 
SYSTEM INTERFACE 



__A__A__(j_.(j A__A__A__Ij__ 

DO Dl D2 03 D4 D5 D6 D7 

TO SYSTEM BUS INTERFACE 

I 2 3 4 3 6 7 

(IDLE STATE: 00) 



Figure 2: The logic diagram of a keyboard interface which implements the formats of figure J . Resistors Rl to R7 are TTL pull up resistors. The 
value are not critical, and may range from 1 KO to 10 KO, '4 W. 



otherwise the ASCII keyboard is connected 
and the cursor motion control keyboard is 
ignored. Note that the cursor motion input 
has priority over the ASCII keyboard since it 
controls the data selector. 

Finally, to complete the interface logic 
sections A and B of IC4 are used to buffer 
the computer-generated keyboard WRITE- 
signal which occurs when the computer 
writes data into the keyboard location. This 
signal is used to reset the graphics control 
flip flops. The buffered version of the signal 
(pin 6 of IC4) is used to drive the acknow- 
ledge line of the ASCII keyboard unit. A 
separate buffer is recommended due to the 
unknown loading of the ASCII keyboard 
device. In LIFE Line's design of a program, 
the logic of the KEYBOARD_INTER- 
PRETER procedure is used to manipulate 
the interface. 

What is not shown in figure 2 is the actual 
system bus interface. The design of such an 
interface must be done consistent with a 
given computer's data bus. In the prototype 
system for LIFE Line, a Motorola 6800 



computer's data bus, buffered by National 
DM8833 Tri State bus transceivers is used. 
The interface thus consists of two DM8833's 
used to drive the bus, plus the address 
selection logic needed to detect the address 
of the keyboard and produce the bus enable 
signal as well as the WRITE- signal. For a 
computer based upon a kit, the input port 
logic will be in a standard form designed by 
the kit manufacturer. What is needed is a 
parallel input port, which might already 
exist if your computer kit comes with a 
keyboard and parallel interface. 

Notes on Assembly 

The prototype version of the graphic 
control keyboard is illustrated in photo 1. 
The keys were made from conventional 
magnetic reed switches obtained from key- 
board units found at a computer auction. 
Any single pole single throw keyswitch can 
be used; options on mounting are left to the 
ingenuity of the builder. The arrangement of 
keys shown in photo 1 is designed so that 
the cursor motion controls are at the top in 



34 



'■i>ao<>o-os>9o6oo0o-...' 

. ■ .. 

-.:<; "■ l: . ., ■ i . 
: 0-J00000060O00O00C 
.^CiOQOOap'OO-OQOOOOC 

.•*'/ oo-oo* 
*O0o5& 

/ocioooooo<}oaoouvv> 



GOOSO 
'COpOOOOtJO 
■..•'.MOCMOOO: 

■..,.r:- ; .K oOO 
oocov, - :■,■;: 
OOOOpOoOO 

ottacooooo 
600000000 

QOOOOOOOO 

S^OOCOOOO 
OOOOOOOO 

oaowgocoo 







::, ■ -..■■:..:. ■ {1 !'■ 

:0ooogoo*><>oooooooo 

DOOOGOOGOCQOOOOvCO 

-"vOOO&opoi 




Photo 2: The graphics control keyboard of 
the LIFE Line prototype system. The group 
of four switches with arrows are cursor 
motion control keys. The two switches with 
captions "B" and "D" are the birth and 
death data keys, respectively. 



a group of four. The arrows were applied 
using small pieces of self-sticking address 
labels of the type often used by computer 
centers. The two isolated switches at the 
bottom of this arrangement are the birth (B) 
and death (D) keys. The wiring of the 
keyswitches to the computer is accom- 
plished through a multi-conductor bundle of 
wires trailing away at the bottom. This cable 
terminates in a dual-inline header plug which 
fits into a socket on the wire wrap board 
containing the computer and interface. 
Photo 2 illustrates the wire wrap wiring of 
the interface logic in the LIFE Line proto- 
type system. 

Using The Control Information 

The purpose of the interface hardware is 
to combine two keyboards into a single 
input port with software distinguishing 
"who called" on the basis of the format 
shown in figure 1. How does the LIFE 
software handle this data format? Recalling 
the presentation in LIFE Line 3, the 
DEFAULT routine is called by the DECODE 




8 1 
1 

tinW mil T 1111 r '■ 

Photo 2: Detail illustrating wire wrapped assembly of figure 2 using a general 
purpose prototyping board. 



routine whenever DECODE cannot match an 
input from this port to an entry in the 
COMMAND table. Decoding of the graphics 
control format and ASCII numeric 
characters is left to the DEFAULT routine 
because of the systematic nature of these 
inputs. 

How is this decoding done? One answer 
of course lies in the design of the DEFAULT 
routine. DEFAULT is specified in a pro- 
cedure-oriented language in figure 3. 
Basically the DEFAULT processing follows 
one of two paths of execution according to 
the high order format identifier bit, bit seven 
of the formats illustrated in figure 1. The 
input data from the interface is passed to 
DEFAULT in the variable KEY which is set 
at line 11 of KEYBOARD^INTERPRETER 
(see LIFE Line 3, figure 3). The high order 
bit of KEY is tested by the AND operation 
of line 3. The masking bit string 10000000B 



35 



1 DEFAULT: 

2 PROCEDURE; 

3 IF (KEY AND 10000000B) NOT = THEN 

4 DO; /* GRAPHICS CONTROL INPUT CASE */ 

5 CALLMOVECURS; /* MOVE CURSOR PER INPUT */ 

6 IF (KEY AND00100000B) NOT = THEN 

7 DO; /* CHANGE IS INDICATED */ 

8 IF (KEY AND00010000B) =0THEN 

9 CALL LPUTIXCOL, YROW,0);/* TURN OFF POINT */ 

10 ELSE 

11 CALL LPUT(XCOL,YROW,1);/* TURN ON POINT */ 

12 CALL DISPLAY;/* SEND UPDATED LIFEBITS OUT »/ 

13 END; 

14 END; 

15 ELSE 

16 DO; /* ASCII NUMERIC DEFAULT CASE */ 

17 NUM = KEY-30H; 

18 IF NUM>9THENNUM = 9; 

19 ZUM = 0; 

20 DO FOR I = 1 TO 10; I* MULTIPLY = REPEATED ADD */ 

21 ZUM = ZUM+ ENTRY; 

22 END; 

23 ENTRY = ZUM + NUM; 

24 /• ENTRY NOW HAS NEXT DECIMAL DIGIT ADDED IN WITH */ 

25 /* A BCDSHIFT BY ONE PLACE 

26 END; 

27 CLOSE DEFAULT; 



selects only the high order bit of KEY so 
that the result of the masked test will be 
zero if bit seven is zero, non zero if bit seven 
is one. If the result of the AND is not equal 
to zero, the graphics control case will be 
executed: the DO . . . END group extending 
from line 4 to line 14. If the result of the 
AND is zero, ASCII input is present so the 
character is forced into a numeric entry 
interpretation. The ELSE DO . . . END 
clause of lines 15 to 26 handles this alterna- 
tive. 

Graphics Control Processing 

The processing of the graphics control 
format is not at all complicated. A pro- 
cedure, called MOVECURS is executed first 
to decode the four low order bits of the 
graphics control format and adjust the 
cursor position. 

MOVECURS is specified in a procedure- 
oriented language in figure 4. This routine 
contains four IF statements which test the 
four motion control bits. Motion is achieved 
for each logical one bit by simply adding or 
subtracting one from the corresponding 
cursor position variable XCOL or YROW. 
Note that this software takes care of an 
invalid combination of up and down (or left 
and right) in a unique way; nothing happens. 
If contradictory commands are input, the 



Data (8-bit bytes) used by DEFA UL T at this level: 

NUM = temporary data byte used to hold a BCD digit for conversion to 
binary. 

ZUM = temporary data byte used to form the product when ENTRY is 
shifted left 1 BCD digit by multiplication with 10, lines 20 to 22. 

Data (8-bit bytes) used by DEFAULT but shared with the 
whole program. 

KEY, XCOL, YROW, ENTRY 
Subroutines Referenced by DEFAULT: 

LPUT . . . Routine (used also by FACTS _OF_ LIFE) which places the 
bit value of the third argument at a location specified by the first two 
arguments. Thus lines 9 and 1 1 define a new value for the bit at XCOL 
and YROW in the LIFEBITS matrix. 

MOVECURS . . . The routine (see Fig. 1 1) which moves the cursor up, 
down, left or right depending upon the motion control switches which 
are read into the low order bits of KEY. 

DISPLAY . . . The routine which copies LIFEBITS to the graphics 
output device for viewing. 



Figure 3: The DEFAULT routine specified in a procedure-oriented 
language. 



ALTAIR 4K's 




$195! 



The price of the ALTAIR 4K memory boards from WITS was 
incorrectly listed at $264 in the "MITS-MAS" Christmas Catalog 
printed in December's Popular Electronics. Unfortunately, the 
price change came after the catalog was printed. 

The ALTAIR 4K board provides 4,09b words (bytes) of dynamic 
RAM (Random Access Memory) for the ALTAIR 8800. Each 
individual board contains memory protect circuitry and address 
selection circuitry tor any one of 16 starting address locations in 
increments of 4K. The maximum access time of the ALTAIR 4K 
board was recently reduced from 300 nanoseconds to 
200 nanoseconds. 

Dynamic memory was chosen for the ALTAIR 4K board because 
it is generally faster and requires less current than static memory 
(a 4K static card that meets ALTAIR bus drive specifications 
requires close to three times the 5 volt current of dynamic 
memory). 

Other ALTAIK B800memory options include a 1K (1.024 words) 
and a 2K (2,048 words) static memory card. These low power 
static memory cards contain memory protect features and have 
a maximum access time of 850 nanoseconds. 

ALTAIR 8800 Memory Prices: 

4K Dynamic $195 kit and $275 assembled 

2K Static $145 kit and $195 assembled 

1K Static $ 97 kit and $139 assembled 



Prices, deliwrv and specifications subject to change. 




M 




NEW ALTAIR 
I/O CARDS 




Creative Electronics 

MITS/6328 Linn N.E., Albuquerque, NM 87108 505/262-1951 



Two new ALTAIR 8800 I/O boards are now in production. 
These include a serial interface (88-2SIO) that can be ordered 
with one or two ports, and a parallel interface (88-PIO) that can 
be ordered with Lip to four ports. 

Each port of the new Serial interface hoard is user-selectable 
for RS232, TTL, or 20 milliamp current loop (Teletype). The 
88-2SIO with two ports can interface two serial I/O devices, each 
running at a different baud rate and each using a different elec- 
trical interconnect. For example, the 88-2SIO could be interfaced 
to an RS232 CRT terminal running at 9600 baud and a Teletype 
running at 110 baud. 

An on-board, crystal-controlled clock allows each port to be 
set for one of 12 baud rates: 37.5, 75, 110, 150, 300, 450, 600, 
1200, 1800, 2400. 4800, or 9600. Baud rates are the speed at which 
data is transfered between the computer and the I/O device. 

Each porl oi the new Parallel interlace provides 16 data lines 
and lour controllable interrupt lines. Each of the data lines can 
be used as an input or output so that a single port can interface 
a terminal requiring 8 lines in and 8 lines out — or it can interface 
two input devices such as a paper tape reader and a keyboard — 
or two output devices such as a paper tape punch and printer — 
or any combination for custom applications. All data lines are 
fully TTL compatible. 

ALTAIR 8800 Interface Prices: 

88-2SIO Serial Interface $115 kit and $144 assembled 

88-SP additional 88-2SIO port $ 24 kit and $ 35 assembled 

88-4PIO Parallel Interface with one 

port $ 86 kit and $112 assembled 

88-PP additional 88-4PIO port $ 30 kit and $ 39 assembled 



1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 



MOVECURS: 
PROCEDURE; 
/* MOVE THE CURSOR BASED UPON THE FOUR LOW ORDER BITS */ 



I* OF THE GRAPHICS CONTROL CHARACTER INPUT 
IF (KEY AND 1000B) NOT = THEN 

YROW = YROW+ 1; 
IF (KEY AND0100B) NOT = 0THEN 

YROW = YROW- 1; 
IF (KEY AND 0010B) NOT = THEN 

XCOL= XCOL- 1; 
IF (KEY AND 0001 B) NOT = THEN 

XCOL = XCOL+ 1; 
/* NOW, IF THE SELECTED KEY WAS ON, THE APPROPRIATE */ 
I* CURSOR POSITION REGISTER HAS BEEN CHANGED */ 
CLOSE MOVECURS; 



*/ 



Data (8-bit bytes) used by DEFAULT but shared with the 
whole program. See Table 2 of LIFE Line 3, BYTE #4, pg. 
55, for details. 



KEY, XCOL, YROW 



Figure 4: The MOVECURS routine specified in a procedure-oriented 
language. 



Decoding "who called" is 
done in software by the 
DEFAULT routine. 



cursor position variable in question is both 
incremented and decremented with a net 
result of no change. Remember also that 
time delays are built into KEYBOARD_ 
INTERPRETER to govern the speed of 
changes when keys are held down contin- 
uously. 

Upon return from MOVECURS with the 
newly updated position, the remaining 
portion of the graphics control processing 
consists of program logic to test for data 
entry. If the change enable bit (bit five) has 
a value of one, a change is indicated. Then if 
the data bit (bit four) is zero, the current 
position in LIFEBITS is turned off, indi- 
cating a death; if the data bit is one, the 
current position in LIFEBITS is turned on, 
indicating a birth. Graphics control change 
processing is completed at line 12 when 
DISPLAY is called to put the new data out 
on the display screen. 

Numeric Default Processing 

In the alternative DEFAULT processing 
case of an ASCII character which is not 
recognized by the DECODE routine, the 
program will assume numeric entry. In effect 
what this means is that any unrecognized 
non-numeric ASCII character will cause 
invalid data to be placed in the ENTRY 
register of the software since this little 
routine uses brute force to extract a numeric 



meaning. At line 17, a value of hexadecimal 
30, denoted 30H, is subtracted from the key 
code. Since valid numeric ASCII characters 
run from hexadecimal 30 to 39, this will 
result in data running from to 9 for valid 
numeric codes. The test of line 1 8 excludes 
invalid codes by forcing a 9 value. (Unsigned 
arithmetic is assumed here so that all 8-bit 
integer values not in the range to 9 will be 
larger than 9.) Then the previous ENTRY 
value is multiplied by 10 using a repeated 
addition loop at lines 20 to 22. The new 
entry digit value is then added in to the low 
order at line 23. Note that ENTRY is a 
binary number, but that the digit being 
defaulted is entered with a decimal 
weighting. (For multiplication. an alternative 
to repeated addition in this case would be to 
observe that 10 x = 8 x + 2 x. Thus using 
three arithmetic left shifts both twice and 
eight times the original ENTRY could be 
obtained and summed producing the 10 x 
product.) 

After execution of one or the other of 
the two paths determined by the format bit 
of the data in KEY, DEFAULT reaches its 
CLOSE statement and returns to DECODE. 

Where Does LIFE Stand? 

In the course of LIFE Line through this 
installment, the structure of the LIFE pro- 
gram has been the major topic. LIFE Line 4 



38 



COMPUTER EXPERIMENTER SUPPLIES 

FACTORY FRESH— PRIME QUALITY 
PERFORMANCE GUARANTEED 



MICROPROCESSORS AND MEMORY 

Commercial Grade — up to 35°C. 



8008 $ 35.00 

8080 135.00 

2102 3.50 

2102-2 4.50 



These units are factory 
fresh, full spec devices. 



COMPUTER GRADE REGULATED POWER SUPPLIES 

All units are short-circuit proof, fold back current limited and with 
over-voltage crowbar protection. 




MD-15 

+ 15 Volt at 200MA 
Dual Tracking 
$30.00 




MD-5-1 

+5 Volt at 1 Amp 
$24.50 




MD-5-3 

+5 Volt at 3 Amp 
$34.50 




MD-5-6 

+5 Volt at 6 Amp 
$44.50 



MICRO COMPUTER SUPPLY 
COMBINATIONS 

For the 8008 

MD-08— +5 volt at 6 amp, -12, -9 at 200 

ma $75.00 

Forthe8080 

MD-80— +5voltat6amp,±12vat200ma . . .$75.00 

FortheFairchild F-8 

MD-8— +5voltat6amp,+12vat200ma . . .$65.00 

For the M6800 

MD-5— +5 volt at 6 amp $44.50 

All units are short circuit proof, fold-back current 
limited and with over voltage crowbar protection. 



All Prices Subject to Change Without Notice 

Minimum Order $10.00 

Add $1.00 to Cover Postage and Handling 

Send Check or Money Order (No C.O.D.) To: 

N. J. Residents Add 5% Sales Tax 



TTL INTEGRATED CIRCUITS 

All devices are factory fresh, full spec units. 

7400 23 

7404 25 

7442 60 

7447 95 

7448 95 

7475 60 

7490 60 

7493 60 

74125 55 

74126 55 

74192 1.10 

74193 1.10 



MICRO DIGITAL CORP. 

BOX 413, EDISON, NJ 08817 • (201) 549-2699 






: ■ ■ ■ : 



A POWERFUL COMMERCIAL GRADE 8080 BASED MICROCOMPUTER SYSTEM REASONABLY PRICED 

STANDARD FEATURES INCLUDE: 

o A commercial grade cabinet, made of heavy gauge aluminum, custom designed for this specific product. Rack mounting is available as a 
special option. 

o Lucite display panel with a photographically reproduced legend and LED display mask. In addition to standard lights and switches, the 
heavy duty front panel has an extra 8 program controlled LED's. 

o Rugged commercial grade paddle switches backed up by reliable debouncing circuits. 

o Gold plated contacts on board edge connectors to assure corrosion free contact at all locations. 

o A heavy duty power supply to handle lots of extra cards, the power supply delivers up to 24 amperes at 8 volts, and 3 amps each at +1 6 
and -16 volts. 

A sturdy card cage to properly support up to 22 printed circuit boards. 

Plug removable front panel board that eliminates the normal wiring harness between front panel and back plane. For special dedicated 
uses, the front panel board may be removed from the unit altogether and used only when program changes are desired. 

A full line of peripheral devices to build truly powerful and complete systems. 

An exclusive shared memory facility from the company that pioneered shared memory microprocessing. Shared memory facilities allow 
multiple microprocessors in the same cabinet to share the same memory, yet run different programs in parallel with each other. 

o A full compliment of board options. 

BASIC COMPUTER INCLUDES: 8080A Processor Board. Front Panel Control Board, lights and switches, power supply, Expander 
Board, Cabinet, ... and ... 256 BYTES OF RAM (on a 4K Board). 



PRICES: KIT... $439 



ASSEMBLED. 



$621 



OPTIONS: Rack mount, RAM & PROM Boards, Parallel & Serial I/O Boards, an 8 level Priority Interrupt/Clock Board, Shared Memory 
Boards, Interface Boards. 

PERIPHERALS: Floppy Disk Drives, 32 Column/125 LPM Printer, 80 Column/300 LPM Printer, 50 Megabyte Disk Drive, 30 character 
per second Printer with Plotting Mode. 

I t, IS. I V I 3 . . . ' Ml VJ WIULI, IJUII I -.11 I I lis J I l.ll I U. IT I i.l. .1 L< 

California residents add 6% tax. 
SEND FOR FREE CATALOG OF IMSAI PRODUCTS 



Check or Money Order, Bankamericard, Master Charge, 25% deposit on COD orders. On all orders under $1000, add 5% postage 
and handling. CaT* 



Contact: 



IMS ASSOCIATES, INC. 
1922 REPUBLIC AVENUE 
SAN LEANDRO, CA 94577 
(415)483-2093 



SPECIAL NOTICE TO ALTAIR 8800 OWNERS: 

If you would like to step-up to the commercial quality of an IMSAI 8080, you will be pleased to know that your ALTAI R 8800 boards are 
"plug-in" usable— without modification— in the IMSAI 8080 cabinet. Furthermore, by acquiring IMSAI's unique Memory Sharing Facility, 
your ALTAIR MPU board and IMSAI MPU board can co-exist in the same cabinet, operate in parallel with each other, and share all me 
in common. This is the technology that laid the foundation for I MSAl's powerful HYPERCUBE Computer and Intelligent Disk system 



(recently featured in Computerworld, Datamation and Electronics magazines). 
40 



mory 
s 



has introduced the first hardware considera- 
tions — the special keyboard — as a 
requirement in the specification of graphics 
control processing. LIFE Line 5 will con- 
tinue the software theme by completing the 
initial specification of the LIFE program 
design exclusive of the RESTORELIFE, 
SAVELIFE and INITIALIZATION pro- 
cedures which together form a major soft- 
ware subject in their own right. LIFE Line 5 
will cover the DISPLAY, RUN, SETXLOC, 
SETYLOC, LIFEDONE, and SETNGEN 
procedures as its main theme. Then the 
scries will turn to the hardware of the LIFE 
system prototype in more detail, to provide 
a basis for the generation of actual 
executable programs which will run on the 
prototype system. The first major phase of 
the LIFE Line project will be completed 
when it is possible to draw a LIFE pattern 
on an oscilloscope output device using the 
cursor motion control keyboard, then 
initiate the pattern evolution according to 
the facts of LIFE as presented in LIFE Line 
1. 

The second major phase of the project 
will be the addition of the data management 
hardware and softwave facilities of the 
SAVELIFE, RESTORELIFE and 
INITIALIZE procedures. These facilities will 
enable the construction of initial patterns 
from "standard parts" saved on a mass 
storage device. As always, the aim of the 
entire series of LIFE Line articles is to show 
how the bits and pieces of hardware and 
software design fit together to produce a 
working application system. ■ 



A bibliography of Scientific American infor- 
mation on LIFE (all references are to Martin 
Gardner's "Mathematical Games" column). 



October 1970: page 120. This is the 
original LIFE article, including the 
definition of the Facts of LIFE, and 
illustration of numerous fundamental 
patterns. 

November 1970: page 118. Answers to 
several questions posed in the first 
article on the subject, including 
definition of the several varieties of 
"spaceships." 

January 1971: pages 105, 106 and 108. 
Continued progress on the LIFE 
front including answers to several 
unsolved questions and results of a 
Hurry of computer LIFE activity. 

February 1 97 1 : Special "Mathematical 
Games" article on "cellular automata 
theory." 

March 1971: pages 108 and 109. Short 
note about progress made by John 
Conway and R. William Gospers, plus 
illustration of a large scale flip flop 
pattern which is delicately balanced 
and easily destroyed by minor distur- 
bances such as impact of a glider. 

April 1971: pages 116 and 117. 
Examples of fuses, the five cell cross 
series, and announcement of Robert 
T. Wainright's LIFELINE newsletter. 

November 1971: page 120. Short note 
on continued progress at the MIT AI 
Laboratory. 

January 1972: page 107. The discovery 
of the "eater" by Bill Gospers at 
MIT. 

This is an essential list of readily available 
information on the LIFE game which interested 
readers can research in any complete public or 
university library. 



An Aside Regarding the Ultimate LIFE 

LIFE on a 64 x 64 grid is an achievable 
project for the home brew computer 
enthusiast. But it is far from the ultimate. 
My thanks to Bob Clements of Lexington, 
Massachusetts for arranging a demonstration 
by R. William Gospers, Jr., at the MIT 
Artificial Intelligence Laboratory one recent 
Saturday evening. When LIFE was first 
widely publicized by Martin Gardner in his 
October 1970 Mathematical Games column 
in Scientific American, it helped set up a 
flurry of research work on the subject. 

Bill Gospers and his associates at the MIT 
AI Lab took the definition of John 
Conway's game and began constructing a 
highly efficient LIFE system running on a 
Digital Equipment Corporation PDP-6 com- 
puter with a high resolution 1024 x 1024 
position oscilloscope display. This research 
tool was used by the MIT people to generate 
numerous mathematically interesting LIFE 
patterns. These include such fundamental 
discoveries as glider guns, space ship 
factories, a binary transcendental number 



calculator, and a Turing machine pattern. 
The ultimate climax of the evening's demon- 
stration was Bill's demonstration of a 
disproof — by example — of John Conway's 
conjecture that no LIFE pattern could grow 
without limit. The particular example he 
used is a colossal moving glider gun factory 

— a pattern which leaves a trail of active 
glider guns behind it as it travels slowly to 
the right on the display screen. This pattern 
fills the plane of the LIFE matrix with cells, 
and the number of active cells increases in 
proportion to the square of the number of 
generations the pattern has lived. After an 
arbitrary length of time, an arbitrary region 
of the plane will be filled with glider 
patterns emanating from the residue of 
glider guns produced by this LIFE machine. 

The programs which form the MIT LIFE 
system arc run on equipment far beyond the 
range of price a home brewer could consider 

— but with the advances in technology it is 
now possible to make a LIFE system which 
demonstrates many principles without 
breaking budgets. 



41 



Total Kitchen 
Information System 



Ted M Lau 

7740 P Chalmette Dr 

Hazelwood MO 63042 



I have become a hateful 
person just because my 
grocery list is unsorted. 



I want to outline a plan for a total 
kitchen information system (TKIS) suitable 
for implementing on a home computer. This 
outline is the first step in the development 
of TKISs of arbitrary complexity from the 
simplest inventory modules to artificial 
intelligence modules (such as those suggested 
by Richard Gardner in the October 1975 
issue of BYTE). The functional approach 
used here should allow the reader to plan a 
complex system using small and manageable, 
"byte-sized" pieces, or to interface indepen- 
dently developed modules. 

This project began as a gripe list my wife 
and I compiled after many frustrating 
experiences in the kitchen; throwing out 
spoiled food we'd forgotten in the refriger- 
ator, abandoning a recipe for lack of a key 
ingredient, reeling with confusion after read- 
ing pages of grocery specials, neither being 
able to remember an appealing recipe nor to 
find it among all our cookbooks, and so on. 

Hierarchy Chart 

Figure I shows the functions to be 
performed by a TKIS, structured in 
hierarchic fashion — meaning that every 
function is made up of several sublunctions, 
each function box performs one general task 
which can be divided into several specific 
tasks, and so on. This chart differs from a 
flowchart in that the function boxes are not 
necessarily performed in left to right order, 
nor are the conditions for execution given. 
The hierarchy (H) chart attempts to outline 
what a system must do, but not how, when, 
or if. 

Each rectangle in the chart represents a 
transformation of some inputs into some 



outputs. For example, box 1.0 takes grocery 
prices from several markets and spits out a 
list of bargains to be scheduled into meals. 
Box 2.0 accepts a list of on-hand perishables, 
in addition to the output from 1.0, and 
yields a schedule of meals. Box 3.0 trans- 
forms the meal schedule into the food 
needed. Box 4.0 transforms raw, separate 
foodstuffs into cooked fare. Box 5.0 turns a 
meal into leftovers and garbage, and 6.0 
turns garbage into cleanliness. 

Notice that I've ignored inputs that 
appear unchanged as outputs, such as the 
recipes consulted to plan the meal (2.0): 
They are brought in at the beginning and 
returned unchanged at the end of the task. 
These unchanged or rarely changed inputs 
are the tables and files referenced by the 
function boxes. These tables and files appear 
to be internal to the boxes, and therefore 
can be ignored for the time being, thus 
allowing me to concentrate on TKIS func- 
tions. Though file design itself can be put 
off, provision must be made for the creation 
and maintenance of this data (7.0). 
Examples are the writing of recipes onto 
blank recipe cards, or the (presumed) struc- 
turing of a previously unstructured human 
brain nerve net to respond to a low price in 
hamburger. 

Notice that action boxes (3.5, 4.5, 5.0) 
are mixed in with thought boxes. The H 
chart attempts to completely describe all the 
functions involved in operating a kitchen, 
whether primarily physical or primavWy 
informational. While no one can seriously 
attempt to computerize these physical tasks 
at the present time, we must remember that 
all physical processes have informational 



42 



SEARCH 
ON HAND 
PERISHABLES 



HEVIEW 
GROCER 
PHICES 



[3ECIDE 

TO 

PURCHASE 



PLAN 
MEAL 
SCHEDULE 



GENERATE 

TEMP 

PURCHASE 

LIST 



7.0 | 




' 


MAINTAIN 




FILES 




. 





6.2 j 6.3 



DISPOSE 

OF 

GARBAGE 



4_3 i 4.4 [ 



Id 



DECIDE 
MARKETS 
TO VISIT 



GENERATE 
GROCERY 
LISTS 



COMPARE 

TO 

INVENTORIES 



t 






\ 




ESTI 


'A IE 






STOL 


■; ITEMS 






NEEL 


:D 




\ 






i 



2.4 



SEARCH TO 
BE PURCHASED 
PERISHABLES 



CHOOSE 
AODED ITEMS 
TO PLAN 



CHOOSE 
A 

RECIPE 



PLAN MENU 



SCHEDULE 





DISPOSE OF 
JWSCHEUULED 
ERISHAIJLES 




I 


, 





Figure 1 : Functions of Total Kitchen Information System. 



components (and arc thus fair game for 
computer enhancement), and that any 
distinction between physical and informa- 
tional is strictly provisional (and is subject to 
erosion as computers expand their capa- 
bilities to manipulate objects, as in robotics 
and automation). So the H chart incor- 
porates into its comprehensive structure 
both modules that are subject to present 
data processing solutions and modules that 
must wait for future technology. (Readers 
will identify box 4.0 as the voice responsive 
vending machine in the rec room of the Star 
Ship Enterprise.) 

Notice that the H chart says nothing 
about computers. It describes my concep- 
tion of a very rigorous manual system that 
could be performed with paper and pencil. It 
purposely steers clear of computer concepts 
to allow you to be flexible in making 
software and hardware design decisions. To 
paraphrase: "Hardware and software may 
pass away, but functions endure." The tasks 
to be performed by the TKIS remain 
unchanged from one system configuration to 
another. 

The H chart functionally describes my 
view of what must be done to get meals on 
the table. It is triggered by specials and 
pev.shables in that it tries to cut costs by 
planning meals using bargains, and to reduce 
wastage by scheduling perishables in timely 



fashion. Specifically, TKIS plans to review a 
large number of grocery item prices and to 
call attention to those that meet a specials 
criterion specified by the developer (1.1). It 
plans to call attention to items in inventory 
whose perishable date falls within the next 
meal scheduling period (2.1). It plans to 
retrieve recipes based on key ingredients and 
other characteristics such as casserole, quick- 
meal, Chinese, price-per-serving, nutritional 
values, etc., (2.4), and to reveal the recipe 
ingredients not on hand, or to reveal only 
those recipes whose ingredients are all on 
hand. It plans to help the kitchen operator 
decide which markets to visit by simulating 
the expenses of buying at various markets, 
including labor time and gasoline costs (3.2). 
It plans to calculate the quantities of ingre- 
dients needed for recipes with adjusted 
servings (3.1.1,4.1). It plans to collect menu 
and recipe evaluations (yum, good orechch) 
(6.4), along with keeping past meal 
schedules and market receipts, for future 
analysis in planning menus, purchasing 
foods, budgeting, and dietetics. It even plans 
to sort the items on each grocery list into 
store location order, so that by walking 
through the store in a prescribed way the 
items will be encountered in order (3.3.3). 
This is big on my gripe list: I hate carrying a 
pencil to mark the groceries I buy, and I also 
hate chasing all over the store to find the last 



43 














SEARCH 
















FOR 








RECIPES 










J 






















2.4.1 






2.4.2 




















' 
















DISPLAY 












INITIATE 






SEARCH 












FUNCTION 






ARGUMENT 
LIST 


























2.4.3 




2.4.4 






2.4.5 












*> 


GET VALID 
SEARCH 

AlltJUM! Nl 




SEARCH 
RECIPES 




DISPLAY 
RESULTS 




SELECTIONS 




FILE 








j 






^ J 




^ 





Figure 2: Recipe Subsystem. 




4.2 



GET ITEM 

SEARCH 

REQUEST 



DISPLAV 

LOCATIONS! 
AND ID NUMBER 



GET 

ITEM USE 
REPORT 



ADD LEFT- 
OVER RECORD 
TO INVENTORY 



Figure 3: Inventory Subsystem. 



few unmarked items. I have become a 
hateful person just because my grocery list is 
unsorted. 

Beyond The Hierarchy Chart 

The H chart tells us what to do but not 
how, so where do we go from here? I would 
hope that some of the readers will come 
forward with data base and file designs, 
hardware specifications, and program 
descriptions. This is a massive project and 
certainly in need of special talents and 
diverse opinions. There are many well 
known techniques for designing computer 
systems, and I think it is sufficient for me to 
mention some of the potential problems that 
may be encountered. 

1. Is the proposed TKIS technically and 
economically feasible in a home? If not now, 
will it become so in a time frame approxi- 



mately equal to the development time? To 
answer these questions, someone must 
expand the effort to prepare detailed hard- 
ware, software, and manpower estimates. 

For example, a recipe retrieval subsystem 
might use a CRT with keyboard to initiate a 
search of the recipe file, and to display the 
results on the cathode ray tube (CRT) (see 
figure 2 for a schematic of the hardware and 
an H chart of the software functions). 
Assuming a file contains 2000 recipes aver- 
aging 500 B each, what are the cost and 
performance tradeoffs between a tape 
system versus disk system? In order to make 
this estimate we must know, first, what 
response time is acceptable to the kitchen 
operator. If the program reads records 
sequentially, what tape speed is required? 
What bandwidth is needed for data path A in 
figure 2 and how fast must programs exe- 
cute? And so on . . . 

2. How can the human labor required for 
data entry be kept below that required for 
the manual system? Data entry is the process 
by which humans, through the sweat of their 
brows, convert data into machine readable 
form so that the computer can do marvelous 
things with it and look like a genius. Data 
entry is probably one of the most costly 
items in the operating budget of the TKIS, 
and certainly one of the most boring. 

Table 1 lists the tables and files needed to 
implement a basic version of the TKIS. Of 
the tables, recipes and prices represent large 
data entry tasks at initial system startup and 
at periodic intervals. It would be very nice if 
the kitchen operator could acquire data in 
machine readable form (on cassettes or via 
the phone line). The book and magazine 
publishers could supply a periodic update of 
recipes and the markets an update of prices. 
Standard formats would have to be 
developed for these interfaces, and a 
customer base must be developed to provide 
an economic incentive. 

The files, on the other hand, originate 
within TKIS and change continually with 
use, making it difficult to solve the data 
entry problem in the same way. For 
example, figure 3 describes a test design for 
an inventory module. The functions of this 
subsystem are to add a record (or a count) 
of each purchased item to the inventory file 
corresponding to the storage location, to 
allow retrievals by item, and to decrement 
the inventories as items are used. The major 
data entry requirements are to tell the 
computer what was used and what was 
bought. 

An efficient way to do the former is to 
signify what was used, instead of specifying 
in detail what was used. By entering the 
recipe name (say, recipe B), the operator 



44 



Table I: Functional Storage Requirements. 
File Name Contents 



A. Tables 

1 . Prices 

2. Recipes 



3. Menus 



4. Calendar 



5. Markets 

B. Files 

1 . Inventories 



grocery item prices by brand for each market 

ingredients, instructions, recipe characteristics, 
nutritional data, number of servings 

groups of recipes, menu characteristics 



dates, meal times, number of guests, other 
requirements 

market name, address, distance 



number and quantity of ingredients by location 
freezer j_ g|sQ per j snab | e items by | D No 

refngerator -I 
shelf 
stock items - number and quantity of items, rate of use (salt, soy 

2. Meal Schedule menu or recipes for each meal 



past schedules and evaluations, market receipts, 
etc. 



3. History 

4. Working Storage purchase list, grocery lists, etc 



Possible Source 



Grocers 

Book and Magazine 
Publishers 

Book and Magazine 
Publishers 

TKIS User 



TKISUser 
TKIS User 

sauce) 

TKIS User 
TKISUser 

TKIS User 



says in effect that "the ingredients for recipe 
B were used." This requires that the com- 
puter have a recipe file for translating 
"recipe B = ingredients D, E, F." If the 
computer lacks this file, the operator must 
enter the specific ingredients used. Thus a 
stand alone inventory subsystem is less data 
entry efficient than one integrated into a full 
TKIS (a truism about systems in general). 

On the other hand, telling the computer 
what was bought can be handled rather 
neatly, by adhering to the rule that once the 
data is in machine readable form it should 
not be degraded out of same. Instead of a 
paper receipt, the bag person at the market 
will plop a cassette in your bag containing all 
the items you purchased and their prices. 
This cassette will have been produced by the 
market's point-of-sale terminal which so 
graciously performed the data entry chore 
for you by optically scanning your groceries. 
(In fact — or rather in fantasy — the market 
won't even have to provide the cassette: you 
will bring the purchase list created by TKIS 
on cassette to the store, insert it into the 
computer at the front door which sorts and 
prints your grocery list in location order 
(3.3.3 and 3.3.4), and carry the cassette to the 
checkout counter for recording of your 
receipt.) 

3. What does the kitchen operator do 
when the system goes down because a disk 
crashes, or the bus turns flaky, or a program 
blows up! (This picturesque lingo seems to 



less accurately describe the condition of the 
computer than it does our emotional state 
after the unthinkable has happened.) Backup 
manual procedures or alternate computer 
services must be provided to allow the 
kitchen operator who has become dependent 
on the TKIS to function while the system is 
down. Adequate system recovery and restart 
procedures must be designed, and a tech- 
nique developed for catching the computer 
up on what transpired while it was uncon- 
scious. The importance of these considera- 
tions will depend upon the complexity and 
reliability of the hardware and software, but 
must be conceived and designed as an 
integral part of the total system. 

4. Finally, assuming a TKIS was 
developed, would a kitchen operator use it? 
Besides being more efficient, less costly, and 
all the other good reasons for which we 
developed it, the TKIS must be flexible 
enough to allow for human inefficiency and 
taste preferences. What if the TKIS user 
doesn't want to prepare the scheduled meal 
for the evening? TKIS must be able to take 
account of human inconsistency. 

Summary 

I have briefly outlined the functions I 
think a kitchen information system should 
perform, and mentioned some considera- 
tions affecting its design. I hope this article 
will help catalyze development efforts in 
what appears to be a fruitful home computer 
applications area. ■ 



45 



Golf 



DUFFER Program Symbol 
Table: In order of appearance, 



Handicapping 



DUFFER 


002/000 


ONCHO 


002/217 


NEXTIN 


002/005 


SUBRATE 


002/221 


INTEN 


002/036 


NOBRRW 


002/230 


INUNIT 


002/056 


INCRD 


002/327 


GOAHEAD 


002/071 


ADD200 


002/331 


DROUTN 


002/114 


GODIVI 


002/334 


RSTRT 


002/126 


DIV1 


002/341 


CALCULA 


002/134 


ENDIVI 


002/363 


BUBBLE1 


002/141 


SCORE 


003/000 


BUBBLE2 


002/146 


INCRC 


003/040 


SWITCH 


002/164 


RNDLOOP 


003/042 


ADDSCOR 


002/175 


FRSTRND 


003/050 


ADDLOOP 


002/203 


ENDRNDT 


003/062 



Dr. George Haller 
1 500 GaJJeon Dr. 
Naples FL 33940 

Almost every golf club keeps a roster of 
its members with up-to-date golf handi- 
caps. By using these handicaps, the members 
with varying degrees of skill in the game can 
play competitively against each other. Many 
large clubs have gone to semiautomatic 
computer services with terminals in the 
clubhouse but most clubs still appoint a 
handicap committee of members which 
meets periodically, usually monthly, to 
calculate each member's handicap. 

Basically, a golf handicap is calculated by 
taking the average of the best ten of the 
twenty most recent scores for a regulation 
18 hole game, subtracting the course rating 
from this average, and multiplying this 
difference by a factor of 0.85. This result is 
rounded off to the nearest whole number to 
become the handicap. As an example, if the 
average of the player's best ten of his most 
recent scores is 95.2 and the course rating is 
68.6, then the difference of 26.6 is multi- 
plied by 0.85 giving 22.6. Rounding gives 
this player a handicap of 23. 

The calculating of these handicaps offers 
a small business opportunity to the owner of 
a small computer. Sheets can be made up 
with spaces for the members' names and 
columns for the most recent twenty scores, 
the old and new handicaps. The handicap 



OUTPUT 
LATCH 



AN 4 OR 
DATAUT 704 




STROBE CODE I33 1st DIGIT 
CODE 135 2nd DIGIT 
CODE 137 3rd DIGIT 



Figure 7 : Each one of the three digits of the 
special display for this program is wired 
according to this schematic. One output port 
is required for each digit. 

46 



Table I: The absolute and symbolic assembly listing of the 
DUFFER program written for an 8008 computer. 



address 


oct 


al c 


ode 


label 


op. 


operand 


commentary 


002/000 


056 


003 




DUFFER 


LHI 


H (SCORE) 


set up address of the 


002/002 


066 


000 






LLI 


L (SCORE) 


score data; 


002/004 


125 








OUT 


12 


SCELBI keyboard handshake; 


002/005 


111 






NEXT IN 


IN 


2 


read SCELBI keyboard; 


002/006 


240 








NDA 




test status in bit 7; 


002/007 


120 


005 


002 




JFS 


NEXTIN 


loop til ready; 


002/012 


125 








OUT 


12 


SCELBI keyboard handshake; 


002/013 


074 


320 






CPI 


"P" 


is it a "P"? 


002/015 


150 


134 


002 




JTZ 


CALCULA 


if so then go process scores; 


002/020 


016 


000 






LB I 





clear input register B; 


002/022 


074 


261 






CPI 


"1" 


is it a "1" digit? 


002/024 


110 


044 


002 




JFZ 


OUTTEN 


if not then skip next digit; 


002/027 


133 








OUT 


15 


send to special display; 


002/030 


016 


144 






LBI 


100D 


initialize 100 decimal; 


002/032 


300 








NOP 






002/033 


300 








NOP 




several NOPs here and there 


002/034 


300 








NOP 




give room for mistakes; 


002/035 


300 








NOP 






002/036 


111 






INTEN 


IN 


2 


read SCELBI keyboard again; 


002/037 


240 








NDA 




test status in bit 7; 


002/040 


120 


036 


002 




JFS 


INTEN 


loop for tens digit; 


002/043 


125 








OUT 


12 


SCELBI keyboard handshake; 


002/044 


135 








OUT 


16 


tens to special display; 


002/045 


044 


017 






NDI 


00001111B 


mask BCD digit in low order; 


002/047 


022 








RAL 




2 times tens digit; 


002/050 


320 








LCA 




save in C register; 


002/051 


022 








RAL 




2 x 2 x tens digit; 


002/052 


022 








RAL 




2 x 2 x 2 x tens digit = 8 x digit 


002/053 


202 








ADC 




(2 + 8) x tens digit = 10 x digit; 


002/054 


201 








ADB 




add in 100s or zero from B; 


002/055 


310 








LBA 




save 10s + 100s in B; 


002/056 


111 






INUNIT 


IN 


2 


read SCELBI keyboard again; 


002/057 


240 








NDA 




test status bit 7; 


002/060 


120 


056 


002 




JFS 


INUNIT 


loop for units digit; 


002/063 


125 








OUT 


12 


SCELBI keyboard handshake; 


002/064 


137 








OUT 


17 


units to special display; 


002/065 


044 


017 






NDI 


00001111B 


mask BCD digit in low order; 


002/067 


201 








ADB 




100s + 10s + Is is the number; 


002/070 


310 








LBA 




save binary score in B again; 


002/071 


111 






GOAHEAD 


IN 


2 


look for command code; 


002/072 


240 








NDA 




test status as usual; 


002/07 3 


120 


071 


002 




JFS 


GOAHEAD 


loop for D or C command; 


002/076 


125 








OUT 


12 


SCELBI keyboard handshake; 


002/077 


074 


304 






CPI 


"D" 


is it a "D"? 


002/101 


150 


114 


002 




JTZ 


DROUTN 


if so then go deposit score; 


002/104 


074 


303 






CPI 


"C" 


else is it a "C"? 


002/106 


150 


126 


002 




JTZ 


RSTRT 


if so then go ignore entry; 


002/111 


110 


071 


002 




JFZ 


GOAHEAD 


loop til proper D or C is found; 


002/114 


371 






DROUTN 


LMB 




deposit score in memory location; 


002/115 


060 








INL 




increment L register; 


002/116 


006 


013 






LAI 


" 1" 


define "]" pattern; 


002/120 


133 








OUT 


15 


"]" into 100s digit; 


002/121 


135 








OUT 


16 


" ] " into 10s digit; 


002/122 


137 








OUT 


17 


" ) " into Is digit; 


002/123 


104 


005 


002 




JMP 


NEXTIN 


begin input sequence again; 


002/126 


006 


012 




RSTRT 


LAI 


"'I" 


define "|" pattern; 


002/130 


133 








OUT 


15 


"1" into 100s digit; 


002/131 


104 


005 


002 




JMP 


NEXTIN 


begin input sequence again; 


002/134 


006 


014 




CALCULA 


LAI 


■'LP 


define "U" pattern; 


002/136 


133 








OUT 


15 


"U." into 100s digit as marker; 


002/137 


061 








DCL 




start the sort of scores; 


002/140 


336 








LDL 




counter gets initial pointer; 


002/141 


056 


003 




BUBBLE1 


LHI 


H (SCORE) 


pointer to beginning of SCORE; 


002/143 


066 


000 






LLI 


L (SCORE) 


also part of SCORE address; 


002/145 


323 








LCD 




current pointer to C; 


002/146 


307 






BUBBLE2 


LAM 




fetch current byte; 


002/147 


240 








NDA 




set conditions; 


002/150 


060 








INL 




point to next byte in bubble; 


002/151 


277 








CPM 




compare next byte in bubble; 


002/152 


140 


164 


002 




JTC 


SWITCH 


switch if need be; 


002/155 


021 








DCC 




decrement sort count; 


002/156 


110 


146 


002 




JFZ 


BUBBLE2 


keep going on inner loop of sort; 


002/161 


104 


175 


002 




JMP 


ADDSCOR 


leave sort when done; 


002/164 


317 






SWITCH 


LBM 




bubble sort involves a process 


002/165 


061 








DCL 




of switching neighboring 


002/166 


307 








LAM 




out of sequence pairs 


002/167 


371 








LMB 




until a uniform sequence 


002/170 


060 








INL 




is obtained; this set of 


002/171 


370 








LMA 




instructions does the switch; 


002/172 


104 


141 


002 




JMP 


BUBBLE1 


then keeps trying until sort done; 


002/175 


300 






ADDSCOR 


NOP 




spare byte with NOP; 


002/176 


016 


000 






LBI 





B will accumulate carries; 



002/200 


026 Oil 






LCI 


9D 


ten = nine plus predef inition; 


002/202 


307 






LAM 




fetch first value before loop; 


002/203 


061 




ADDLO0P 


DCL 




point to next value; 


002/204 


207 






AIM 




add it from memory; 


002/205 


142 217 


002 




CTC 


INCHO 


if carry increment high order; 


002/210 


021 






DCC 




decrement loop count; 


002/211 


110 203 


002 




JFZ 


ADDLOOP 


keep adding until done; 


002/214 


104 221 


002 




JMP 


SUBRATE 


branch around subroutine INCHO; 


002/217 


010 




INCHO 


INB 




increment B subroutine 


002/220 


007 






RET 




is simplicity squared; 


002/221 


240 




SUBRATE 


NDA 




set flags; 


002/222 


024 267 






SUI 


267 


octal low order of course rating;* 


002/224 


100 230 


002 




JFC 


NOBRRW 


if no borrow then no adjustment; 


002/227 


Oil 






DCB 




high order adjust if borrow; 


002/230 


320 




NOBRRW 


LCA 




save low order in C; 


002/231 


301 






LAB 




high order prepared; 


002/232 


024 002 






SUI 


2 


octal high order course rating;* 


002/234 


310 






LBA 




save high order in B; 


002/235 


342 






LEC 




start multiply by 8.5; 


002/236 


002 






RLC 




shift left high order of data; 


002/237 


330 






LDA 




save result in D; 


002/240 


320 






LAC 




fetch the low order of data; 


002/241 


240 






NDA 




clears condition flags; 


002/242 


002 






RLC 




shift left low order; 


002/243 


142 327 


002 




CTC 


INCRD 


if carry then increment high order; 


002/246 


320 






LCA 




D/C now have twice the result; 


002/247 


303 






LAD 




fetch high order; 


002/250 


002 






RLC 




multiply by 2 (4 x total); 


002/251 


330 






LDA 




save high order; 


002/252 


302 






LAC 




fetch low order; 


002/253 


240 






NDA 




clear flags; 


002/254 


022 






RAL 




multiply by 2 (4 x total); 


002/255 


142 327 


002 




CTC 


INCRD 


if carry then increment high order; 


002/260 


320 






LCA 




save low order again; 


002/261 


303 






LAD 




and again fetch high order,- 


002/262 


002 






RLC 




and multiply by 2 (8 x total); 


002/263 


330 






LDA 




and again save high order; 


002/264 


302 






LAC 




and again fetch low order 


002/265 


002 






RLC 




and again multiply by 2 (8 x total) 


002/266 


142 327 


002 




CTC 


INCRD 


if carry then increment high order; 


002/271 


044 370 






NDI 


370 


mask low order in 8 x total; 


002/273 


320 






LCA 




save low order in C again; 


002/274 


304 






LAE 




fetch old original low order; 


002/275 


012 






RRC 




divide by 2 giving .5 x; 


002/276 


044 177 






NDI 


01111111B 


turn off high order bit; 


002/300 


340 






LEA 




save in E 


002/301 


301 






LAB 




fetch original high order result; 


002/302 


240 






NDA 




clear flags; 


002/303 


012 






RRC 




divide by 2 giving .5 x; 


002/304 


310 






LBA 




save high order in B 


002/305 


304 






LAE 




fetch low order; 


002/306 


142 331 


002 




CTC 


ADD200 


if carry, adjust low order; 


002/311 


240 






NDA 




clear flags; 


002/312 


202 






ADC 




8 + 0. 5 = 8.5 x result; 


002/313 


320 






LCA 




save low order 8.5x in C; 


002/314 


142 327 


002 




CTC 


INCRD 


increment D if carry to high order; 


002/317 


301 






LAB 




fetch high order; 


002/320 


044 177 






NDI 


01111111B 


clear bit 7; 


002/322 


203 






ADD 




add other high order giving 8.5 x; 


002/323 


310 






LBA 




save back into B; 


002/324 


104 334 


002 




JMP 


GODIVI 


branch around two subroutines; 


002/327 


030 




INCRD 


IND 




subroutine increments D register; 


002/330 


007 






RET 




and returns almost instantly; 


002/331 


004 200 




ADD200 


ADI 


10000000B 


turn on high order bit if off; 


002/333 


007 






RET 




and also return almost instantly; 


002/334 


036 144 




GODIVI 


LDI 


100D 


load 100 count in D; 


002/336 


046 Oil 






LEI 


9D 


load 9 count in E; 


002/340 


301 






LAB 




fetch high order of numerator; 


002/341 


310 




DIV1 


LBA 




save high order in B; 


002/342 


302 






LAC 




fetch low order to A; 


002/343 


022 






RAL 




divide by 2; 


002/344 


320 






LCA 




save low order ; 


002/345 


041 






DCE 




decrement subtraction count; 


002/346 


150 363 


002 




JTZ 


ENDIVI 


if zero, then end divide; 


002/351 


301 






LAB 




fetch old high order; 


002/352 


022 






RAL 




rotate left; 


002/353 


223 






SUD 




here is the repeated subtract; 


002/354 


100 341 


002 




JFC 


DIV1 


if no borrow then trial ok; 


002/357 


203 






ADD 




else fix up for false subtract; 


002/360 


104 341 


002 




JMP 


DIV1 


and go back for more subtracts; 


002/363 


022 




ENDIVI 


RAL 




multiply low order by 2; 


002/364 


340 






LEA 




save low order in E; 


002/365 


006 377 






LAI 


liimiiB 


load all ones into A; 


002/367 


252 






XRC 




exclusive OR with all ones 


002/370 


320 






LCA 




complements C; 


002/371 


104 050 


003 




JMP 


FRSTRND 


jump around data,- 


003/000 






SCORE 


BLK 


3 2D 


32 bytes for scores;** 


003/040 


020 




INCRC 


INC 




subroutine to increment C 


003/041 


007 






RET 




and then return; 


003/042 


024 012 




RNDLOOP 


SUI 


10D 


subtract 10 from negative of 


003/044 


030 






IND 




low order, increment count; 


003/045 


104 062 


003 




JMP 


ENDRNDT 


go to end test; 


003/050 


301 




FRSTRND 


LAB 




fetch high order; 


003/051 


240 






NDA 




clear flags; 


003/052 


074 062 






CPI 


SOD 


compare to decimal 50; 


003/054 


102 040 


003 




CFC 


INCRC 


if =>50 then increment quotient 


003/057 


302 






LAC 




low order to A; 


003/060 


036 000 






LDI 





clear divide count in D; 


003/062 


240 




ENDRNDT 


NDA 




clear flags; 


003/063 


074 012 






CPI 


10D 


is it less than 10?; 


003/065 


100 042 


003 




JFC 


RNDLOOP 


if not back for adjustment; 


003/070 


137 






OUT 


17 


send A to units digit output; 


003/071 


303 






LAD 




fetch tens digit result; 


003/072 


135 






OUT 


16 


send D to tens digit output; 


003/073 


104 000 


002 




JMP 


DUFFER 


go back to consider next duffer; 



■NOTE: The course rating in this example is assumed to be 69.5. To account for 
10 double precision adds, this is multiplied by 10 giving 695. In octal, this 
takes two bytes with 002 in the high order, 267 in the low order. 



** NOTE: The mnemonic "BLK" is used to indicate that a block of memory 
is reserved for use by the program, with the name (SCORE here) used to 
reference the first address in the block. 



service furnishes these sheets to the golf club 
to fill in all the information except the new 
handicap. The handicap service then collects 
the sheets on a monthly or other periodic 
basis and returns them promptly with the 
newly calculated handicap. If done on a 
monthly basis, a reasonable charge might be 
from one to three dollars per member per 
year depending on the length of the season. 
This income will not support much of a 
computer service establishment, but could 
help in the purchase of some new 
peripherals. 

In the author's case a SCELBI computer 
with its 8008 CPU was used with a standard 
ASCII keyboard and a small home brew 
readout which cost less than ten dollars for 
parts. A program equivalent to this one can 
be written for almost any small home 
computer. The diagram of the readout for 
each digit is shown in figure 1. 

The program requires fewer than 320 
bytes. Golf scores can range from 60 for a 
super player to 150 for a complete duffer. 
Regulation golf courses have ratings ranging 
from 65 to 75 which are always a matter of 
record at the golf club. 

The program to calculate the handicap on 
an 8008 is shown in table 1 . The keyboard is 
used to input the scores one at a time. If the 
first digit is a 1 then 100 (decimal which is 
equal to 144 octal) is loaded into register B 
and displayed on the left readout. If the first 
digit is not a 1 then the score is less than 
100, and this digit is considered a second 
digit. The second digit is displayed on the 
central readout. Multiplied by 10, it is then 
added to the contents of register B. The final 
digit is shown in the right readout and added 
to the contents of register B. The operator 
verifies the score shown on the three digit 
readout. If it is correct, the key D is pressed 
which stores the score in memory and sends 
the program back to look for the next score 
to be entered. If an error has been made, by 
pressing key C the program goes back for a 
corrected score without storing the incorrect 
score in memory. After twenty scores are 
entered, the key P starts the calculating 
routine to process the scores. This routine 
sorts the scores in descending order, adds the 
ten lowest scores, subtracts ten times the 
course rating, multiplies by 8.5, divides by 
100, rounds off the result and displays the 
handicap. 

On Jan. 1, 1976, the multiplying factor 
changes from 0.85 to 0.96. To adapt the 
program, take the difference as obtained at 
location 002/233, multiply by 4, add 50, 
divide by 100, subtract the quotient (disre- 
gard the fraction) from the original 
difference, add 5 and divide by 10. The 
quotient, dropping the fraction, will be the 
rounded off handicap. ■ 



47 



Microcomputer 



A new six-volume programmed 
learning course from Iasis tells 
you EVERYTHING about what 
microcomputers are and how 
you can design and implement a 
microprocessor-based system. 



-6SSS» 



VOL V 
QO ,^ ASSEMBLERS AND 
PROTOTYPING SYSTEMS 




W t a-« u 



MO\-N 



Since the transistor was invented, 
no single electronics innovation has 
made such an impact as the micro- 
computer. Powered by tiny semiconductor 
chips containing computing elements with 
the same powers and functions previously 
found only in large scale digital computers, 
these dedicated microcomputer systems are 
now being applied to literally thousands of 
applications. Microcomputers are automating 
assembly lines, providing the heart of sophis- 
ticated electronic games, making "intelligent" 
computer peripherals even smarter, and are going 
so far as streamlining the operations of the fastest 
food chains. This revolution is occuring because micro- 
computers are very inexpensive— costing as little as $30 
in production volume— easy to implement into a system, and 
significantly reduce the time and cost of product development. But 
there has been one serious drawback to this exploding industry: 

Training materials and courses in the basics of microcomputer 
technology have been virtually non-existent, and the various 
published manuals and texts have been undecipherable to those 
not already intimately familiar with ultra-sophisticated logic design. 

Once a designer has the hang of it, microcomputer design is a snap. 
But without the fundamentals— never before available in such a 
readable, understandable and simplified format — microcomputer design 
has been unbelievably difficult. The comprehensive, step-by-step six- 
volume Programmed Learning Course on Microcomputers from Iasis 
makes the unbelievably difficult almost ridiculously simple. The authors of 
these texts have been involved on a professional level in the micro- 
computer industry since it became an industry. Their direct, first-hand 
experience in the whys, hows, wherefores and potentials of microcomputers 



THE 



'-It""- 



4-B| T 



M,CR °COM^ T L E '» 




ttriM* ■ ■.- „'„ 
WHft .rrrr, 



Iasis Texts: 

1. Binary Arithmetic 

2. Microcomputer Architecture 

3. The 4-Bit Microcomputer 

4. The 8-Bit Microcomputer 

5. Assemblers and Prototyping 
Systems 

6. 8-Bit Assemblers and 
Compilers 



Finally, you can get a comprehensive training course on microcomputers that puts 
all the hard-to-get information at your fingertips in an easy-to-read, easy-to-understand 

and even easier-to-implement manner. You can get it here... now. ■■ ■■ ■■ ■■ ■■ 



design is a snap. 



have made this six-volume collection the most valuable and 
meaningful series ever published on microcomputer 
design. The books combine the most effective methods of 
programmed instruction with the entire gamut of essential 
information vital to the designer of a micro-based system. 
You begin with the ABC's of microcomputers and go 
through a virtual post-doctoral course. . .and the 
unique, self-testing programmed learning lasis course 
enables you to understand and absorb every bit of the 
information every step of the way through the six volumes. 






o v "•- 



V i 



'■■":■ 



The lasis course gives you more than 700 pages of detailed, 
illustrated microcomputer information— including more 
than 1,700 self-tests you use to evaluate your progress — 
plus programming and design aids that make the design of 
practical systems very, very easy for you. 









88 



, - ■ ' 

■' 

. ■ ■ ■ " fl . . - 









•' 



89 



■ ■, ■■ ■■■'■■■ . ■ . .. 

r-..l",-i| ■:•-■■. :•■ ■■ !(.,,, 
■-'-■■-'■■,! ■■>*!')„ 



90 



,■■■■ 




■ " 



" l( I ■■■■• 

. . ■ I ■ 

.... 

,.'■-■' 
■ . ■ ■ ■ ■ ' 



II ■(.,. 



Specific details are provided on four of the indus- 
try's most versatile microcomputers— the 4004, 4040, 
8008 and 8080 from Intel Corporation — but the basic 
design information will apply to any and all micro- 
processors. The six volumes you receive with the 
course are: 1) BINARY ARITHMETIC; 2) MICROCOMPUTER ARCHITECTURE; 3) THE 
4-BIT MICROCOMPUTER; 4) THE 8-BIT MICROCOMPUTER; 5) ASSEMBLERS AND 
PROTOTYPING SYSTEMS; and 6) 8-BIT ASSEMBLERS AND COM- 
PILERS. Plus, this detailed course provides you with two programming 
pads and two simplified design aids so you may quickly and easily 
develop both 4-bitand 8-bit microcomputer systems. Use the coupon 
below to order your course from lasis, Inc., 1 10 First St., Suite b 
Los Altos, California 94022 

Special introductory price on this remarkable new course is just 
$99.50 . . . and if it isn't everything we say it is or even more, 
return it within 15 days for a full refund! 

iasis inc. 






- : 1 



Order before Nov. 30, and you'll save a full $25 on the Programmed Learning Course 
on Microcomputers! In addition, all introductory orders will include a bonus seventh 
volume, the Microcomputer Applications Handbook! 

(After Nov. 30, 1975 price for the complete lasis course will be $124.50, plus $2.50 for postage and handling.) 



Here's my check or money order (no cash, please). RUSH my 
6-volume Programmed Learning Course on Microcomputers, 
including the bonus Applications Handbook and programming 
aids, to the address below. HURRY! 

□ Send one complete course for $99.50 in U. S. funds. My 
payment is attached. (California residents, please add 
$5.97 State sales tax.) 

□ Send me information by return mail on quantity discounts. 

ALLOW 15 DAYS FOR DELIVERY IN THE U. S. AND 6 WEEKS 
FOR DELIVERY OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES. 



Mail today to: lasis, 
110 First St. Suite B 

Los Altos, California 94022 
iasis inc. 



You can use your BankAmericard or Master Charge, too! 

□ CHARGE MY ORDER TO THE CREDIT CARD NO. BELOW: 

BankAmericard No. 

Master Charge No. 



For Master Charge, add 4-digit number imme- 
diately above your name on the card. It is 



HERE'S MY SIGNATURE. 

Crndit card expiration date_ 
NAME 



(Sign here if credit card charge) 



ADDRESS . 



ORGANIZATION . 



. MAIL STOP- 



CITY/STATE/ZIP_ 



An Intel 8080 Op Code Table 



Fred Dittrich 
312 N 8 St (no 2) 
Columbia MO 65201 



Fred Dittrich, 312 N 8 St (no 2), 
Columbia MO 65201, supplies this table of 
op codes for the 8080 instruction set. The 
notation for mnemonics is that of the Intel 
8080 Microcomputer System Manual 
(MCS-472-0275), published in January 
1975. The table gives all the 8 bit numbers 
from to 255 in decimal, hexadecimal and 
octal so the table can also be used as a base 
conversion chart. The following format is 
used for the mnemonics: 

One byte instructions are shown in 

capital letters only, such as MOV C, H 

Two and three byte instructions have 

symbols in angle brackets signifying 

the additional bytes following the op 

code, such as LDA <LO> <HI>, 

where <LO> is the low order portion, 

and <HI> is the high order portion of 

a 16 bit address; and <DATA> means 

immediate data; and <DEVICE> = 

device code 

For details of the operation of instructions 

consult the Intel literature, manufacturers' 

specifications from 8080 second sources, or 

the user documentation of computer kits 

which use the 8080 chip. 



Dec Hex 




1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 
29 
30 



00 

01 

02 

03 

04 

05 

06 

07 

08 

09 

0A 

0B 

0C 

0D 

0E 

OF 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

1A 

IB 

1C 

1D 

IE 



Octal 

000 
001 
002 
003 
004 
005 
006 
007 
010 
011 
012 
013 
014 
015 
016 
017 
020 
021 
022 
023 
024 
025 
026 
027 
030 
031 
032 
033 
034 
035 
036 



Mnemonic 



NOP 

LXI 

STAX 

INX 

INR 

DCR 

MVI 

RLC 

DAD 

LDAX 

DCX 

INR 

DCR 

MVI 

RRC 

LXI 

STAX 

INX 

INR 

DCR 

MVI 

RAL 

DAD 

LDAX 

DCX 

INR 

DCR 

MVI 



B<LOXHI > 

B 

B 

B 

B 

B < DATA > 

Unimplcmented 

B 

B 

B 

C 

C 

C<DATA> 

Unimplcmented 

D< LOXHI > 

D 

D 

D 

D 

D < DATA > 

Unimplcmented 

D 

D 

D 

E 

E 

E<DATA> 



31 
32 
33 
34 
35 
36 
37 
38 
39 
40 
41 
42 
43 
44 
45 
46 
47 
48 
49 
50 
51 
52 
53 
54 
55 
56 
57 
58 
59 
60 
61 
62 
63 
64 
65 
66 
67 
68 
69 
70 
71 
72 
73 
74 
75 
76 
77 
78 
79 
80 
81 
82 
83 
84 
85 
86 
87 
88 
89 
90 
91 
92 
93 
94 
95 
96 
97 
98 
99 
100 
101 



IF 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

26 

27 

28 

29 

2A 

2B 

2C 

2D 

2E 

2F 

30 

31 

32 

33 

34 

35 

36 

37 

38 

39 

3A 

3B 

3C 

3D 

3E 

3F 

40 

41 

42 

43 

44 

45 

46 

47 

48 

49 

4A 

4B 

4C 

4D 

4E 

4F 

50 

51 

52 

53 

54 

55 

56 

57 

58 

59 

5A 

5B 

5C 

5D 

5E 

5F 

60 

61 

62 

63 

64 

65 



37 
040 
041 
042 
043 
044 
045 
046 
047 
050 
051 
052 
053 
054 
055 
056 
057 
060 
061 
062 
063 
064 
065 
066 
067 
070 
071 
072 
073 
074 
075 
076 
077 
100 
101 
102 
103 
104 
105 
106 
107 
110 
111 
112 
113 
114 
115 
116 
117 
120 
121 
122 
123 
124 
125 
126 
127 
130 
131 
132 
133 
134 
135 
136 
137 
140 
141 
142 
143 
144 
145 



RAR 

LXI 

SHLD 

INX 

INR 

DCR 

MVI 

DAA 

DAD 

LHLD 

DXC 

INR 

DCR 

MVI 

CMA 

LXI 

STA 

INX 

INR 

DCR 

MVI 

STC 

DAD 
LDA 
DXC 

INR 

DCR 

MVI 

CMC 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 



Unimplemented 

H<LOXHI> 

<LO>< Hl> 

H 

H 

H 

H<DATA> 

Unimplemented 

H 

<LOXHI> 

H 

L 

L 

L < DATA > 

Unimplemented 
SP<LOXHI> 
<LOXHI> 
SP 

M 
M 
M<DATA> 

Unimplemented 

SP 

<LO>< Hl> 

SP 

ACC 

ACC 

ACC < DATA > 



C 

D 

E 

H 

L 

M 

ACC 

B 

C 

D 

E 

H 

L 

M 

ACC 

B 

C 

D 

E 

H 

L 

M 

ACC 

B 

C 

D 

E 

H 

L 

M 

ACC 



50 



102 


66 


146 


MOV 


H, M 


179 


B3 


263 


ORA 


E 


103 


67 


147 


MOV 


H, ACC 


180 


B4 


264 


ORA 


H 


104 


68 


150 


MOV 


L, B 


181 


B5 


265 


ORA 


L 


105 


69 


151 


MOV 


L, C 


182 


B6 


266 


ORA 


M 


106 


6A 


152 


MOV 


L, D 


183 


B7 


267 


ORA 


ACC 


107 


6B 


153 


MOV 


L, E 


184 


B8 


270 


CMP 


B 


108 


6C 


154 


MOV 


L, H 


185 


B9 


271 


CMP 


C 


109 


6D 


155 


MOV 


L, L 


186 


BA 


272 


CMP 


D 


110 


6E 


156 


MOV 


L, M 


187 


BB 


273 


CMP 


E 


111 


6F 


157 


MOV 


L, ACC 


188 


BC 


274 


CMP 


H 


112 


70 


160 


MOV 


M, B 


189 


BD 


275 


CMP 


L 


113 


71 


161 


MOV 


M, C 


190 


BE 


276 


CMP 


M 


114 


72 


162 


MOV 


M, D 


191 


BF 


277 


CMP 


ACC 


115 


73 


163 


MOV 


M, E 


192 


CO 


300 


RNZ 




116 


74 


164 


MOV 


M, H 


193 


CI 


301 


POP 


B 


117 


75 


165 


MOV 


M, L 


194 


C2 


302 


JNZ 


<LOXHI> 


118 


76 


166 


HLT 




195 


C3 


303 


JMP 


<LOXHI> 


119 


77 


167 


MOV 


M, ACC 


196 


C4 


304 


CNZ 


<LOXHI> 


120 


78 


170 


MOV 


ACC, B 


197 


C5 


305 


PUSH 


B 


121 


79 


171 


MOV 


ACC, C 


198 


C6 


306 


ADI 


< DATA > 


122 


7A 


172 


MOV 


ACC, D 


199 


C7 


307 


RST 





123 


7B 


173 


MOV 


ACC, E 


200 


C8 


310 


RZ 




124 


7C 


174 


MOV 


ACC, H 


201 


C9 


311 


RET 




125 


7D 


175 


MOV 


ACC, L 


202 


CA 


312 


JZ 


<LOXHI> 


126 


7E 


176 


MOV 


ACC, M 


203 


CB 


313 




Unimplemented 


127 


7F 


177 


MOV 


ACC, ACC 


204 


CC 


314 


CZ 


<LOXHI> 


128 


80 


200 


ADD 


B 


205 


CD 


315 


CALL 


<LOXHI> 


129 


81 


201 


ADD 


C 


206 


CE 


316 


ACI 


< DATA > 


130 


82 


202 


ADD 


D 


207 


CF 


317 


RST 


1 


131 


83 


203 


ADD 


E 


208 


DO 


320 


RNC 




132 


84 


204 


ADD 


H 


209 


D1 


321 


POP 


D 


133 


85 


205 


ADD 


L 


210 


D2 


322 


JNC 


<LOXHI> 


134 


86 


206 


ADD 


M 


211 


D3 


323 


OUT 


< DEVICE > 


135 


87 


207 


ADD 


ACC 


212 


D4 


324 


CNC 


<LOXHI> 


136 


88 


210 


ADC 


B 


213 


D5 


325 


PUSH 


D 


137 


89 


211 


ADC 


C 


214 


D6 


326 


SUI 


< DATA > 


138 


8A 


212 


ADC 


D 


215 


D7 


327 


RST 


2 


139 


8B 


213 


ADC 


E 


216 


D8 


330 


RC 




140 


8C 


214 


ADC 


H 


217 


D9 


331 




Unimplemented 


141 


8D 


215 


ADC 


L 


218 


DA 


332 


JC 


<LOXHI> 


142 


8E 


216 


ADC 


M 


219 


DB 


333 


IN 


< DEVICE > 


143 


8F 


217 


ADC 


ACC 


220 


DC 


334 


CC 


<LOXHI> 


144 


90 


220 


SUB 


B 


221 


DD 


335 




Unimplemented 


145 


91 


221 


SUB 


C 


222 


DE 


336 


SBI 


< DATA > 


146 


92 


222 


SUB 


D 


223 


DF 


337 


RST 


3 


147 


93 


223 


SUB 


E 


224 


EO 


340 


RPO 




148 


94 


224 


SUB 


H 


225 


El 


341 


POP 


H 


149 


95 


225 


SUB 


L 


226 


E2 


342 


)PO 


< LOXHI> 


150 


96 


226 


SUB 


M 


227 


E3 


343 


XTHL 




151 


97 


227 


SUB 


ACC 


228 


E4 


344 


CPO 


< LOXHI> 


152 


98 


230 


SBB 


B 


229 


E5 


345 


PUSH 


H 


153 


99 


231 


SBB 


C 


230 


E6 


346 


ANI 


< DATA > 


154 


9A 


232 


SBB 


D 


231 


E7 


347 


RST 


4 


155 


9B 


233 


SBB 


E 


232 


E8 


350 


RPE 




156 


9C 


234 


SBB 


H 


233 


E9 


351 


PCHL 




157 


9D 


235 


SBB 


L 


234 


EA 


352 


JPE 


< LOXHI> 


158 


9E 


236 


SBB 


M 


235 


EB 


353 


XCHG 




159 


9F 


237 


SBB 


ACC 


236 


EC 


354 


CPE 


<LOXHI> 


160 


A0 


240 


ANA 


B 


237 


ED 


355 




Unimplemented 


161 


A1 


241 


ANA 


C 


238 


EE 


356 


XRI 


< DATA > 


162 


A2 


242 


ANA 


D 


239 


EF 


357 


RST 


5 


163 


A3 


243 


ANA 


E 


240 


FO 


360 


RP 




164 


A4 


244 


ANA 


H 


241 


F1 


361 


POP 


PSW 


165 


A5 


245 


ANA 


L 


242 


F2 


362 


JP 


<LOXHI> 


166 


A6 


246 


ANA 


M 


243 


F3 


363 


Dl 




167 


A7 


247 


ANA 


ACC 


244 


F4 


364 


CP 


<LOXHI> 


168 


A8 


250 


XRA 


B 


245 


F5 


365 


PUSH 


PSW 


169 


A9 


251 


XRA 


C 


246 


F6 


366 


ORI 


< DATA > 


170 


AA 


252 


XRA 


D 


247 


F7 


367 


RST 


6 


171 


AB 


253 


XRA 


E 


248 


F8 


370 


RM 




172 


AC 


254 


XRA 


H 


249 


F9 


371 


SPHL 




173 


AD 


255 


XRA 


L 


250 


FA 


372 


JM 


<LOXHI> 


174 


AE 


256 


XRA 


M 


251 


FB 


373 


El 




175 


AF 


257 


XRA 


ACC 


252 


FC 


374 


CM 


<LOXHI> 


176 


BO 


260 


ORA 


B 


253 


FD 


375 




Unimplemented 


177 


B1 


261 


ORA 


C 


254 


FE 


376 


CPI 


< DATA > 


178 


B2 


262 


ORA 


D 


255 


FF 


377 


RST 


7 



51 



There's More to Blinking 
Lights Than Meets 

The Eye 



CarJ HeJmers 



A blinking light peripheral is an inexpen- 
sive, entertaining addition to your computer 
system. The use of multiple indicator lamps 
under computer control to produce moving 
patterns can lead to many hours of creative 
programming and pleasant amusement. 

Playing with blinking lights is nothing 
new to people working with computers. 
Early systems, to say nothing of science 
fiction movie caricatures, tended to have 
monstrous front panels with row after row 
of indicator lamps. These lamps were used to 
reveal various machine states. As computers 
became more sophisticated, the need for 
many of these indicators diminished, but the 
fascination of making the indicator lamps 



dance and gyrate in interesting patterns has 
remained. 

As a simple example of moving lights, 
consider a single 8 bit byte of memory in 
your computer, which might be called 
BLINK. Assume that you have also con- 
structed an 8 bit output data latch which 
drives eight LEDs as shown in figure 1 . When 
a certain program is started, BLINK might 
be initialized as follows: 

10 

Suppose this value is sent to the display, 
which is set up so that a 1 bit lights an LED, 
then the display will look like this: 

• •••()••• 



COMPUTER { 
DATA BUS 



OUTPUT WRITE- FOR THIS LATCH 



t 



BUS RECEIVERS 
(USE TYPICAL ICS 
OF YOUR COMPUTER 
SYSTEM) 



f 



7475 'S- 



M^ 



+ 5V-PIN5 
GND-PIN 12 



OA 
QB 
QC 
OD 



OA 
OB 
OC 
QD 



220il(8) 

— wv 



7475 

QUAD LATCH 



7475 

QUAD LATCH 



► 5V 



4 



LED(8) 

r 



i—& 



&- 



TOOTHER 
OUTPUT LATCHES 

Figure 1: The basic "straightforward" approach to display lamps. One Jatch is assigned to each of several output ports of the 
computer. The output port decoding logic will determine when the latch is addressed for output. The result of decoding is a 
WRITE signal which latches the data presented at the bus receivers. The sample program of figure 2 assumes two such display 
registers. In principle the idea can be extended to many registers in groups of eight, limited only by the computer's input output 
addressing capability and the available power for lighting LEDs. In this circuit, TTL fanout limitations on the bus receivers would 
limit expansion to a totai of 10 latches. The LEDs can be mounted on a separate display panel with connections by means of dual 
in line header plugs and sockets. A neutral tinted glass or plastic cover plate and an attractive wooden frame are good finishing 
touches for the visible portion of the project. 



52 



Figure 2: The CATERPILLAR program listing. Opcodes and addresses are specified in 
octal notation for the 8008 CPU. Comments at the right are designed to help convert the 
program to other machines. 



address octal code label 



op. 



operand 



commentary 



010/000 250 

010/001 036 377 

010/003 046 000 

010/005 304 

010/006 022 

010/007 340 

010/010 303 

010/011 022 

010/012 330 



START XRA clear carry and A; 

LDI 11111111B first caterpillar word; 

LEI 00000000b second caterpillar word; 
MARCH LAE right byte to A; 

RAL shift left into carry; 

LEA then saved for next time; 

LAD left byte to A; 

RAL shift left into carry; 

LDA then saved for next time; 

* note that RAL shifts old carry into A each time, 

* thus the above accomplishes shift from E's high 

* order bit into D's low order bit via carry...; 

write into left lamps; 
fetch right value; 
write into right lamps ; 
set delay loop constant; 
use 

several 
longish 

instructions 

to 
stretch 
out 
the 
loop 

(a BYTE in time saves nine) ; 
decrement delay count; 
if non zero then repeat delay; 
back for another step; 

* note that during the operations at addresses 010/013 

* to 010/036 the carry bit value set by the last RAL 

* is retained unchanged, so that the RAL at 010/006 

* will shift the old high order bit of the left register 

* (D) into the low order bit of the right register (E) ; 

This program uses only the internal CPU registers for its data, and assumes that 8008 
output ports 36 and 37 are assigned to latched 8 bit displays so that a visible pattern can 
be seen. 



010/013 


177 






OUT 


37 


010/014 


304 






LAE 




010/015 


175 






OUT 


36 


010/016 


026 


300 




LCI 


192D 


010/020 


307 




DELAY 


LAM 




010/021 


307 






LAM 




010/022 


307 






LAM 




010/023 


307 






LAM 




010/024 


307 






LAM 




010/025 


307 






LAM 




010/026 


307 






LAM 




010/027 


307 






LAM 




010/030 


307 






LAM 




010/031 


307 






LAM 




010/032 


021 






DCC 




010/033 


110 


020 


010 


JFZ 


DELAY 


010/036 


104 


005 


010 


JMP 


MARCH 



The key element in creating an illusion of 
motion is time. If the program starts out 
with data as shown above, waits a short 
time, then executes a left rotate instruction, 
a new pattern will be obtained. The new 
binary value 0001 0000 can be sent to the 
display: 

• ••(")•••• 

In the simplest of all motion programs, 
these three steps are repeated in an endless 
loop: 

1 . Rotate BLINK left one bit position. 

2. Send BLINK to the display. 

3. Wait n milliseconds. 

4. Go to step 1 . 



With a program executing these four 
steps, the pattern of lit indicators will be 
seen moving to the left, disappearing on the 
left in the same step at which it reappears on 
the right. By changing the program delay 
(step 3), the speed of the pattern's apparent 
motion can be changed. 

Figure 1 shows two quad latches which 
are used to drive 8 indicator lamps. The 220 
O resistors are typical values for LEDs as 
indicators. This value allows reasonable 
brightness with most LEDs. The comple- 
ment outputs of the 7475 ICs used as latches 
produce a lit LED for each 1 bit received. 
When you purchase LEDs for a blinking light 



53 



• • 



o 
o 



• • 






o o o o 



o 

o 



o 

o 






. • • • . 






• • 






o 
o 
o 






• • • 



Figure 3: Creativity in the arrangement of the lamps of your blinking light peripheral can make the show more impressive and interesting. A: The 
traditional blinking light display, a la control panel, is a straight line of sixteen lamps in a row using two output latches. B: Tradition is nice, but 
how about a bit of circular thinking, using thirty two lamps in a circle with four output latches. C: Don't rule out the bouncing ball effect either. 
Here we make a parabola shape using sixteen lamps, one at the focus, with two output Jatches. D: With enough lamps, we can make a spiral show 
with one or more arms. Here are forty lamps using five output latches. E: There are an infinite number of patterns to be made. In this case, infinity 
consists of sixty four lamps using 8 output latches. 



display, make sure they are all the same, as 
the display will not look as attractive if 
lamps of different types are mixed. 

Now, suppose you use four latches for 16 
bits of data and 16 LEDs. How do you 
program an 8 bit computer to do the shifting 
light pattern function for 16 bits? The basic 
way in which this is accomplished is to shift 
the bits through the carry flag of your 
machine. 

Figure 2 illustrates a program which does 
a 16 bit shift in an 8008 microcomputer, 
and sends the data to the output ports 
reached by the OUT36 and OUT37 instruc- 
tions (octal 175 and 177, respectively). The 
result is a moving display of 16 lights. A 
band of several bits is always marching right 
to left around the display at a steady rate. 

But, why let the imagination end at a 
mere 1 6 bit display? The use of IO ports can 
be extended without too much cost (given 
limitations on power supplies, of course). 



The cost of two 7475s, eight resistors, and 
eight LEDs is about $3 (using BYTE's 
advertising pages as a source of prices). Thus 
a very reasonable display of 64 LEDs will set 
you back only $24 and the time it takes to 
put it together. 

Using a bit of imagination, the extension 
of the program can lead to interesting 
patterns running around non-linear configur- 
ations such as those illustrated in figure 3. 
Variations in the patterns result in displays 
of light. Beyond the scope of this short 
article are more complicated programs using 
the same display peripheral: Programs in 
which the light patterns do more interesting 
things than simply chasing around the race- 
track at uniform speeds. 

Try building a simple 16 bit blinking light 
display version first, then go on to bigger 
and better things. Then see if you don't 
agree that there's more to BLINKing lights 
than meets the eye! ■ 



54 



Christmas Time Payment Plan Altair Manuals 

IK Altair for Just $68 a Month! J!' nir 2 ° perat , , rs ? I™ 

^ Altair 8800 Assembly $ 9.00 

You can be the owner of an Altair 8800 with a 1.024 Altai,- 8800 Theory, Schematics $10.00 

word memory module for just $68 a month. Each month Altair 68 ° °P erators $ 7 -50 

,, iL , , . , , Altair 680 Assembly $ 7.50 

(for 8 months) you send in your payment and we send A , ta|r 680 ThcQry Schematics $10 ()0 

you part of an Altair kit until you have the complete BASIC Language Documentation $10.00 

system. The advantages of the plan are NO interest or Assembler, Monitor, Editor $ 7.50 

financing charge, GUARANTEED price based on today's 88()0 4K Memory (includes Assembly.Theory & Schematics) . $ 5.00 

price, and free, immediate membership to the Altair Users 880() 2K Mcmor v s 5 - 00 

'- ■ i ,• . • <• <- M* 88()0 1K Memory $ 5.00 

Group including subscription to Computer Notes. „„.,., g . OA g . 0( , 

Our terms are cash with order, BankAmericard. or Master 8800 SlOB $ 5.00 

Charge. If you send in an early payment, we will make 8800 SIOC $ 5.00 

an early shipment. By the same token, a late payment 

.,, ,, . , . I. , ,*(, rk , . , 8800 ACR $ 5.00 

will result in a late shipment. (After 60 days past due, COMTFR II O $ 6 50 

the balance of the deal is cancelled. All payments must COMTER II Assembly $10.00 

be made within 10 months). COMTER II Theory, Schematics $10.00 

Total $544.00 (Retail price: Altair 8800 $439.00, Memory VLCT ( Assembl V- Operators, Theory) $ 5.00 

$97.00, Postage and Handling $8.00- Allair Line PrinlGr ln terface $ 5.00 

Documentation Special One 

Altair UserS GrOUp Special Altair 8800 Operators, Assembly and Theory manuals plus BASIC 

Each mouth the Altair Users Group sponsors a software contest and Language manual (regularly $36.50). Not* just $15.00. 

each month MITS gives away $130 in credit to the winners of this 

contest. At the end of the year, the author of the overall best program DoClllllClltcltiOll SpCClill TWO 

will receive $1000 in credit. AI . . CQn , A , , , -,-, , D , , » oc 

Altair oou Operators. Assembly and I heory manuals. Kegularly .?zo. 

Membership to the Altair Users Group (the largest of its kind in the j\j l)u , j ust $14 50. 

world) is free to Altair 8SO0 owners. However, even if you don t own an 

Altair, you can be an a^oaate member for one year at the special law Documentation Special Three 

price of flu (regularly $30). ■ 

As a member of the Altair Users Group, you will be kept informed of BASIC Language manual. Package I (Assembler. Monitor. Editor), and 

Altair developments, software contests, and general computer news BASIC language beginners text (My Computer Likes Me When 1 Speak 

through the monthly publication. Computer Notes. You will have access BASIC by Bob Albrecht). Regularly $19.50. Now just $12.50. 
to the Altair Software Libraiy and you can communicate to other Altair 

users throughout the world. MITS/6328 Linn NE/ Albuquerque, NM 87108 

Note: These specials expire on January 30, 1976. 505-265-7553 or 262-1951 

Mail this special Altair Coupon Today! 

D Enclosed is check for $ □ BankAmericard * □ or Master Charge # 

□ Altair 8800 □ Kit □ Assembled □ Fan □ Christmas Time Plan □ Expander Board 
D Altair 680 □ Kit D Assembled □ Fan □ I/O Sockets 

□ Teletype □ Line Printer □ Comter II □ VLCT □ Disk □ Disk Drive Only □ Disk Controller Only 

□ Memory Module □ I/O Module Hist on separate sheet) 

Postage & Handling: Add $8 for Altair 8800 or Altair freight. Warranty: 90 days on parts for kits and 90 
680 and $3 for any cards or peripherals if ordered days on parts and labor for assembled units. Prices, 
separately. Teletype and Line Printer shipped by collect specifications, and delivery subject to change. 

□ Documentation Special One □ Documentation Special Two □ Documentation Special Three 

□ Altair Users Group plus Computer Notes 

D Please put me on your mailing list SHIP TO: 

BILL TO: „..,„ 

NAME 

NAME , 

ADDRESS 

ADDRESS 

CITY : : 

CITY 

STATE & ZIP 

STATE & ZIP „, 3 ._, „■-■■. 

U Please send Christmas Card to above address 

COMPANY (IF APPLICABLE) announcing gift and anticipated delivery. 

MITS/6328 Linn NE/ Albuquerque, NM 87108 505-265-7553 or 262-1951 



Photographic Notes on 
Wire Wrapping 




Carl Helmers 



Photo 1 : One of the most widely used 
custom assembly methods in the computer 
industry is wire wrapping. Special square 
wire wrap posts are built into sockets or 
mounted directly onto components. The 
stripped ends of insulated wires are con- 
nected to the posts using a special electric or 
hand operated tool. The result is an 
excellent connection with gas tight "vacuum 
welds" at each corner of the post as the 
sharp edge cuts slightly into the wire. Wire 
wrapping is a quick, easy and permanent 
way to connect point A to point B in your 
custom circuitry. 




Photo 2: The business end of an industrial 
quality wire wrap tool is the bit and sleeve 
assembly. The bit is driven by a high speed 
motor (or hand operated mechanism) and 
rotates around the post to be wrapped. The 
center of the bit has an alignment hole 
which fits over the wire wrap post to guide 
the operation. The bit also has a groove 
along its length into which the stripped end 
of a wire is inserted as shown. The wire is 
held in the groove by the sleeve and is pulled 
out during the process of wrapping. The 
sleeve itself does not rotate and is held 
rigidly in position. 



56 




Photo 3: The bit and sleeve may be removed 
from the typical industrial wrapping tool. 
The groove for the wire can be seen as a line 
running the length of the bit in this photo- 
graph. Note how the groove has an enlarged 
section near the tip of the bit. This enlarged 
section allows a small length of unstripped 
wire to be inserted so that one turn of 
insulation will be wrapped around the post. 




Photo 4: When the trigger has been pulled 
on a loaded wire wrap gun, the result 
(hopefully) will be a perfect wrap every 
time. The wrapping action begins at the 
bottom with a single turn of insulated wire 
followed by successive layers of stripped 
wire. In this picture you can count 15 layers 
of bare wire on the side facing the camera. 
The single turn of insulated wire is produced 
by what is called a modified wrap bit. This 
single turn around the post uses the insula- 
tion to help act as a strain relief to prevent 
breakage when handling wires while 
debugging a system. A standard wrap bit 
would start the first coil of bare wire minus 
the strain relief feature. 




Photo 5: To quote the previous caption, 
"When the trigger has been pulled on a 
loaded wire wrap gun, the result (hopefully) 
will be a perfect wrap every time." Here is 
an example where hope was in vain. A 
problem which sometimes occurs is the 
"wrat's nest" wrap shown in this photo- 
graph. The normal operation of the 
wrapping gun includes retraction of the bit 
inside the sleeve as the wire layers are added 
to the coil around the post. A spring loaded 
mechanism in the gun provides for this 
controlled retraction. Occasionally the bit 
sticks and does not retract properly. This 
results in a jumbled mess as layers of wire 
wrap over previously wrapped layers. If the 
wrat's nest wrap occurs only occasionally, 
the likely cause is your tool position while 
wrapping. If the bit is not centered about 
the wrapping post, friction in the pilot hole 
can prevent the bit from retracting properly. 
If the wrat's nest wrap occurs consistently a 
likely cause is dirt and grime buildup on the 
bit. If particles of metal scraped off the wire 
are allowed to accumulate, the resulting 
friction can inhibit retraction of the bit. 
Thus if the gun consistently makes wrat's 
nest wraps, removing the bit and cleaning it 
may resolve the problem. After cleaning, the 
bit may be oiled. Oiling should be done very 
sparingly at the gun end of the bit so that 
excess oil does not get in the groove and 
onto the wire. When a wrat's nest occurs, 
whatever the cause, good practice indicates 
that you should remove the mess and start 
over. 



57 




Photo 6: Continuing on the theme of less 
than optimal wrapping results, this picture 
shows an example of the "impatient wrap." 
The primary cause of the impatient wrap is 
your own impatience to see the result. If the 
wire wrap gun is removed from the post 
while the wrapping action is under way, the 
result will be widely spaced coils of wire 
often covering the length of the post. This 
example is an exaggerated version concocted 
on purpose; the typical case is a normal base 
to the coil with the top one or two layers 
spread out. The solution to this problem is 
to allow the gun to do its work before 
removing it from the post. In a case such as 
the one shown here, removal of the connec- 
tion and rewrapping should be done. In 
milder forms of the impatient wrap, the 
wrap would not necessarily have to be 
replaced. 




Photo 7: The length of the coil produced by 
the wrapping action is a function of the 
length of bare wire prepared for insertion in 
the tool. For the typical .025 inch square 
wrapping posts with 30 gauge wire, approxi- 
mately 8 layers wiU be added to the coil for 
each inch of bare wire inserted into the bit. 
This photo shows an example of the "pigmy 
wrap." When a short coil of wire is pro- 
duced, one possible explanation is that not 
enough wire was stripped when preparing for 
the connection. (Another possible explana- 
tion is that the wire broke, leaving most of 
the stripped section inside the groove where 
it must be removed by disassembling the 
tool.) 



58 



Photo 8: It is often necessary to connect 
several wire wrap posts to one electrical bus. 
The method of accomplishing this is to 
create a chain of point to point wraps. In 
such a chain each wrapping post except the 
first and the last will receive two wraps: a 
level one wrap at the bottom and a level two 
wrap above it. One way to build the chain is 
to start at one end connecting one post to 
the next until the last connection is reached. 
In the model shown here, wrapping began at 
the right and progressed toward the left. 
There is a major disadvantage with this 
technique of chaining. Suppose you want to 
remove the link between the two posts 
furthest to the right in the photo. Note that 
in order to remove the first level wrap on the 



second post from the right, you must first 
remove the second level wrap on that post. 
However, the wire to the second level comes 
from the first level wrap of the third post 
and must be removed at both ends since wire 
wrap wire cannot be recycled. But this 
presents the same problem all over again at 
the third post, and the problem will propa- 
gate down the chain until all the wire has 
been removed. One way to get around the 
problem simply is to clip the removed wire 
and leave a dummy wrap on the post, 
making any new connection at the third 
level if the post is long enough. There is an 
alternative method of connection shown in 
the next photograph which minimizes the 
effects of a chain change on long chains. 




Photo 9: The alternative method of chaining 
which minimizes propagation of changes is 
illustrated in this photograph. This technique 
is highly recommended for initial wiring 
of any bus which connects more than 4 
posts. The principle which governs this form 
of wiring is simple: Wires are connected to 
the same wrap level at each end. If a change 
is required at level two, only one wire has to 
be removed to break a link. If a change is 
required at a level one link, three wires must 
be removed (and two possibly rewired). 
V/hen wiring a bus this way, the first step is 
to connect all the possible pairs of posts in 
the bus with wraps at level one. For buses 



with an even number of posts, this will put a 
level one wrap at every post; for buses with 
an odd number of posts, one post will be left 
without a connection after all the pairs are 
wired. Then, each end of each pair is 
connected to its neighboring pair with a level 
two wrap, completing the chain. For odd 
length buses, the solitary unwrapped post is 
connected to one of the pairs at this stage. 
This method of wrapping works only with 
the initial wiring of a chain. If later changes 
are made, such as adding or deleting seg- 
ments in the middle, necessity may force a 
hybrid version of the two techniques of 
chaining. 



Taking Advantage of 
Memory Address Space 



James Luscher 

2012 Jefferson Street 

Madison WI 53711 



A computer's address 
space is not necessarily 
equivalent to the amount 
of memory it has installed. 



The address space of a computer is the set 
of addressable data locations provided in 
the design of its instruction set. A common 
misconception is to view a computer's 
address space as the equivalent of the actual 
memory that the machine has. This point of 
view is both incorrect and too restrictive for 
the hobbyist or engineer who is able to 
modify his machine. 

Thinking in terms of address spaces is 
more productive than thinking in terms of 
memory for three reasons: First memory is 
normally installed in blocks of addresses 
where each word is identical in length, speed 
of access, etc. In contrast, an address space 
need not have identical physical implementa- 
tions at each location. Second there are 
often several logically distinct address spaces 
in a computer while there is usually only one 
main memory for programs and data. 
Multiple address spaces have separate func- 
tions or functionally distinct address spaces 
(e.g., input output device space and main 
memory address space) can be merged. 
Lastly, a computer normally has a smaller 
main memory than it is capable of 
addressing, thus wasting some (or most) of 
the address space. 

Non-Memory Address Spaces 

As an example of a non-memory address 
space, let's first consider the ADr instruction 
(add register to accumulator) as imple- 
mented on Intel's 8008 microcomputer chip. 
Its bit pattern is 10000RRR, where RRR 
represents the register address field. This 
defines an address space for the 8008 CPU 
which is not directly associated with main 
memory at all. As a second example, con- 
sider the 8008 input instruction, INP. The 
bit pattern for this instruction is 
0100MMM1 where MMM is the input unit 
address field. This defines a second address 
space for the 8008 which is also unrelated to 



main memory addressing. Thus there are 
several distinct address spaces associated 
with the 8008 design. 

The designers of a computer have to give 
careful consideration to all the address 
spaces supported by the computer they 
create. The input instruction address space 
allows up to 8 locations as input ports. If the 
designer of the Intel 8008 had wanted to 
allow 16 input devices he would have needed 
4 bits. Using the larger address space means 
that some instructions must be modified, 
eliminated or restricted because the bit 
retained for addressing cannot be used to 
distinguish instructions. 

You pay for the extra address space in 
your computer even if you don't use it fully. 
You pay for 8 input ports even if you only 
need 2 input addresses, and the cost is in 
terms of the instructions which could not be 
implemented. You also pay in terms of the 
bits of memory which are required to hold 
the unused parts of the addresses. Deciding 
how to handle the addressing of various 
functional elements in a computer is one of 
the most crucial issues in the design of an 
instruction set. 

Non-Uniform Address Spaces 

To see that an address space need not 
identify uniform arrays like main memory 
let's re-examine the 8008's ADr instruction. 
The register address space can specify one of 
8 locations with 3 bits. However there are 
only 7 registers in the 8008. Each of the 
registers numbered to 6 specifies a byte of 
data which is part of the 8008 CPU. These 
registers, named A, B, C, D, E, H and L, are 
the seven "normal memory" addresses in the 
8008 register address space. Each of these 
registers, if selected by the RRR bits of the 
ADr instruction can have its content added 
to the A register when the instruction is 
executed. The eighth address in this address 
space (numbered 7) is different in function 



60 



from the other seven. Address seven in the 
register address space is not a register at all. 
Referencing register 7 causes the H and L 
registers to be placed end to end forming a 
16 bit address register. This is then used to 
address a byte in main memory. Thus one 
element of the register address space of the 
8008 is very different from the other seven 
elements (see figure 1 ). 

Using Non-Uniform Main Memory Address 
Space 

The previous example illustrated a non- 
uniform address space built into the archi- 
tecture of a specific computer chip, the 
8008. There is no reason why the hobbyist 
can't use the same concept of a non-uniform 
address space element to his advantage in the 
design of custom systems or additions to 
existing systems. Suppose that someone has 
a 6800 processor with 4096 bytes of 
memory and wants to implement the LIFE 
application on this machine. With a 64 x 64 
grid, 4096 bytes of memory alone would be 
required for data storage if one byte is used 
for each element of the LIFE matrix. Two 
normal solutions to the problem are to buy 
more memory or to implement subroutines 
which store 8 matrix elements into each 
byte, thus requiring only 512 bytes for data 
plus storage for the packing and unpacking 
subroutines. This last approach has the 
unfortunate drawback of being slow, not to 
mention its added programming difficulty. 

There is another clever way to solve the 
problem of accessing large arrays of bits, a 
way which is open to the hobbyist who 
designs his own machine or doesn't mind 
adding to his machine. It is possible to build 
a 4096 bit memory at a cost much lower 
than the cost of a full 4096 byte memory 
board. In effect you are replacing the 
packing and unpacking routines with the 
chip address selection hardware at a nominal 
dollar cost and a great increase in speed. 
Figure 2a illustrates the concept of the 4096 
bit memory added to a system which already 
has 4096 bytes of random access memory. 

Since only one bit of information is 
involved, the way the addressed bit is 
hooked up to the bus interface data lines is a 
matter of personal preference and program- 
ming convenience. One way (figure 2b) is to 
connect the single active bit to the low order 
bus line at the bus interface. Testing the 
state of the stored bit could then be done by 
loading from the memory location of the bit 
and testing the zero flag with a conditional 
branch instruction for the computer being 
used. A second way is to connect the active 
memory chip to the high order bit, in which 
case the sign of the result (in two's comple- 
ment notation) corresponds to the present 



state of the bit in memory. In cither of these 
first two ways, the unused bits may be wired 
to logical zero or one. A third way, shown in 
figure 2d, is to connect the output of the 
single bit memory to all 8 data lines at the 
interface to the bus. When this method is 
chosen, the data value loaded from the 
one-bit memory locations will be either zero 
or -1 (hexadecimal 00 or FF). The one bit 
wide memory is much less expensive since 
only the single bit being used at any address 
has a physical implementation as a memory 
device. 

8008'S ADR INSTRUCTIONS 



INSTRUCTION REGISTER 

IDENTIFIER ADDRESS 

SPACE 



RRR REGISTERS 
OOO 

OOI 
OIO 
Oil 
IOO 

IOI 

no 
in 



A 
~B~ 
~C~ 
~D~ 

~T 
"FT 

~ 

® 



H H I L | 




Figure 1 : An example of a small non-uniform 
address space is provided by the register address 
space of an 8008 microprocessor. Seven out of 
eight possible locations are registers of the pro- 
cessor; the eighth (M) however has a very special 
hardware meaning and is not implemented on the 
chip at all. 

A 6800 system which uses only 4096 
memory addresses is not using 94 percent of 
its total available address space of 65536 
possible locations. There is plenty of space 
for another 4096 single bit memory. This 
approach is cost effective, speed effective 
and makes better use of the hardware 
resources inherent in the CPU chip design. It 
is a good solution to the problem of storing 
an array of bits and can be used in any 
system which does not require byte memory 
or peripherals at every available location in 
address space. 

IO and Other Uses of Address Space 

In the article "Notes on Parallel Output 
Interfaces" in BYTE #3 (page 52), Carl 
Helmers pointed out how memory address 
space can be used to address output devices. 
In such a usage, the IO address space and the 
memory address space of a more conven- 
tional design are one and the same thing. 
This is the only way IO is done in the DEC 



Designers of computer 
architectures have to give 
careful consideration to all 
the address space 
supported by the com- 
puter they create. 



61 



Don't make the mistake of 
thinking you have to 
include every bit of every 
word in a memory. 
Leaving out one or more 
memory chips will not in 
general affect the function 
of the remaining portions 
of the memory module. 



64K AVAILABLE 
ADDRESS 



64K 




TO I BIT 
ARRAY 



UNUSED 
ADDRESS 



4K X I 
NSTALLED BIT 

MEMORY 



4KX8 
NSTALLED BIT 

MEMORY 



TO I BIT 
ARRAY 



Figure 2: For purposes of manipulating arrays of 
singie bit data, it is possible to use otherwise empty 
memory address space for a partial implementation 
of read-write memory, a. illustrates the memory 
allocations with such a partial array in a typical 
example, b., c. and d. show three alternative 
connections of the partial word's data to the bus 
interface. 



LOGICAL O OUT 
IGNORE INPUT 



fn\ 


\ 






<&> 


















BITS-* 


7 


6 


5 


4 


3 


2 


1 







i ■ | 




i 






i 








BUS 




INTERFACE 



BITS- 



LOGICAL O FROM 
'MEMORY" IGNORED 
WRITING TO "MEMORY" 



I T T T T T T 

-►765432 1 

' t 



-© 



LOW ORDER BIT 
S SOURCE FOR 

WRITE 



BUS 
INTERFACE 



SYSTEM 
BUS 



SOFTWARE SEES 

OR I 
(HIGH ORDER BITS 
IGNORED) 



SYSTEM 
BUS 



SOFTWARE SEES 

OR -128 
(SIGN BIT, BIT7, 
IS THE DATA BIT) 




SYSTEM 
BUS 



SOFTWARE SEES 

OR -I 
(DATA TO CPU REPEATED - 
IN ALL 8 BITS) 



PDP-11 family of minicomputers, as well as 
microcomputers like the 6800 and the 6501 
family. These machines have no IO instruc- 
tions at all. In the PDP-11 family, there is 
one particular 4096 word block of memory 
address space reserved for use with external 
devices; for most microcomputers, specific 
allocations of IO addresses in memory 
address space are a discretionary choice of 
the system designer. 

The addressing concepts used to interface 
arbitrary IO devices can also be used to add 
new functions to your computer. Since a 
CPU cannot tell what kind of memory it is 
interacting with over the bus, it is possible to 
have memory locations which serve special 
computing purposes. Suppose that you want 
to manipulate 16 bit words with a 6800 
system. Specially implemented address space 
locations can be used to store and man- 
ipulate data with the longer word length 
independent of the CPU's restrictions. 

Figure 3 shows two 16 bit registers and 
one control register for a simple 16 bit 
arithmetic unit. Registers A16 and B16 
occupy two memory address space locations 
each, for a total of four locations. The 
control register occupies one address loca- 
tion. Now suppose that locations X and X+1 
on the main memory section of the com- 
puter contain a 16 bit number, and that 
locations Y and Y+1 contain a second 16 bit 
number. A routine to add X to Y and store 



LDX 


X 


STX 


A16 


LDX 


Y 


STX 


B16 


LDAA 


#$01 


STAA 


CI 6 


LDX 


A16 


STX 


Y 



the result into Y could be implemented 
fairly simply: 



fetch first operand (1 6 bits); 
store into 16 bit A register; 
fetch second operand (1 6 bits); 
store into 16 bit B register; 
define control code 

and store it into external unit; 
fetch accumulated result; 
and store it into Y; 



The addresses A16 and B16 refer to the 
registers of the external math unit built 
along the lines of figure 3; the control 
register C16 when set with an appropriate 
code will execute the math operation — 
which could just as easily have been a 
multiply or a divide or some other function 
such as block data movement or an array 
operation implemented in hardware. What 
we have done here is to augment the data 
handling capabilities of the microprocessor 
by adding hardware which interfaces 
through a series of locations in memory 
address space. With this type of hardware 
addition, the only programming required is 
thus a series of loads and stores needed to 
move the data to and from the special 
memory locations, thus saving a lot of 
microprocessor programming and making 
extended precision arithmetic much faster 
than the equivalent software version. While 
the circuitry to perform such extended 



62 



SYSTEM 
DATA BUS 
INTERFACE 



























LOCATION AI6 




















LOCATION AI6 + 1 














' 








i . 


\ 




LOCATION BI6 




A DATA 
SWITCH 

HIGH 


A DATA 

SWITCH 

LOW 


*— SELECT 




-OCATION BI6+I 


' 






< 


■ 


' 




' 


' 






A HIGH 


A LOW 


*— WRITE 
CONTROL 


B HIGH 


B LOW 




















LOCATIOr, 


BI6 + I 










LOCATION BI6 








LOCATION AI6 + I 




LOCATION AI6 ^ 


' 


\ 


• 










I 


I 








r 


ADDER 
HIGH 


ADDER 
LOW 


CARRY IN 






I 










CARRY OUT 






























OPERATION 

CONTROL 

LOGIC 


1 P 


C 
CONTROL 


LOCATION 
















CI6 


A DATA SELECT 
A WRITE CONTR 




1 










01 


•*— 











Figure 3: Another use of memory address space resources is to interface special function 
hardware. This diagram shows the concept of a 16 bit arithmetic module which can be 
constructed and interfaced as four data locations and one control location in memory 
address space. 



operations is not trivial, it is a lot less 
expensive and easier to accomplish than 
building a complete CPU with instruction 
decoding, conditional branching, subroutine 
calling mechanisms, interrupts and all the 
other capabilities needed in a processor. This 
is the way to build an "extended instruction 
set" in a machine which nominally does not 
have any extension possibilities. 

Extended arithmetic hardware of this 
kind is very common on medium and large 
scale machines where speed improvements 
are needed. For example in floating point 
arithmetic which involves a lot of double 
precision addition and shifting, a common 
commercial technique is to buy a fast 
floating point processor from an outside 
vendor and plug it into a minicomputer. This 
type of extension of the central processor 
capabilities by doing computation and data 
manipulation in the address space (external 
to the CPU proper) is something that the 
advanced hobbyist may find to be a 
challenging and useful addition to the 
system. Whether adding instruction set 
extensions or implementing partial memory, 
the central theme of this is to always keep 
an open and creative outlook towards 
utilizing all of the capabilities your machine 
provides — especially the address space. ■ 



. . . the central theme is to 
always keep an open and 
creative outlook towards 
utilizing all the capabilities 
your machine provides . . . 



DIGITAL DATA RECORDER for 
Computer or Teletype Use 

Up to 2400 Baud $149.95 




Uses the industry standard tape 
saturation method to beat all FSK 
systems ten to one. No modems or 
FSK decoders required. Loads 8K of 
memory in 34 seconds. This recorder 
enables you to back up your computer 
by loading and dumping programs and 
data fast as you go, thus enabling you 
to get by with less memory. Great for 
small business bookkeeping. 
IMAGINE! A year's books on one 
cassette. 

Thousands are in use in colleges and 
businesses all over the country. This 
new version is ideal for instructional, 
amateur, hobby and small business 
use. Ideal for use by servicemen to 
load test programs. Comes complete 
with prerecorded 8080 software 
program used to test the units as they 
are produced. (Monitor) 



SPECIFICATIONS: 
A. Recording Mode: 



tion binary. This is not an FSK 
or Home type recorder. No voice 
capability. No modem. 

B. Two channels (I) Clock, (2) 
Data. Or, two data channels pro- 
viding four (4) tracks on the 
cassette. Can also be used tor 
NRZ, Bi-Pliase, etc. 

C Inputs: Two (2). Will accept 
TTY, TTL or RS 232 digital. 

D. Outputs: Two (2). Board 
changeable from TTY, RS232 or 
TTL digital. 

E. Erase: Erases while recording 
one track at a time. Record new 
data on one track and preserve 
three or record on two and 
preserve two. 



Tape satura- F. Compatability: 



Will 



nterface 



any computer using a UART or 
PIA board. (Altair, Sphere, 
M6800etc.) 

. Other Data: ]J0 V - (50-60J 
Hz; 2 Watts total: UL listed 
$955D; three wire line cord: 
on/off switch: audio, meter and 
light operation monitors. 
Remote control of motor 
optional. Four foot, seven con- 
ductor remoting cable provided. 

. Warrantee: 90 days. All units 
tested at 110 and 2400 baud 
before shipment. Test cassette 
with 8080 software program 
included. This cassette was 
recorded and played back during 
quality control. 



ONE DOLLAR brings operating and main- 
tenance manual with schematics. 

COMING NEXT MONTH - IN KIT 

FORM 
Hexadecimal Keyboard — Load pro- 
grams direct from keyboards' 16 
keys and verifying display. Does not 
use Computer I/O. 
I/O for use with Computer Aid or 
other digital recorders. Variable 
baud rate selectable on externally 
located unit by one knob. Can load 
computer or accept dumps without 
software. Turnkey Operation. For 
any 8 bit computer. 

Record/Playback Amplifier. 
Expanded version of our Computer 
Aid board for use with your own 
deck (cassette or reel to reel). Go to 
9600 baud on reel to reel. Digital in, 
diqital out, serial format. 
* Interested in these? Send your name 

and address for brochure when released. 

Send check or money order for $149.95 
plus $2.00 Shipping & Handling (N.J. Resi- 
dents add 5% Sales Tax) to: 

NATIONAL multiplex 



3474 Rand Avenue, Box 288 
South Plainfield, New Jersey 07080 



CORPORATION 



63 



Kor k? 



Manfred Peshka 



The lack of conventions and standards 
used to abbreviate units of measure, to 
determine scale of measurements, base of 
numbers, or mathematical, relational, and 
logical operators, may occasionally lead to 
confusion and misunderstandings. There are 
people who prefer to use such expressions as 
KB for 1 024 bytes, CPS for characters per 
second, LPM for lines per minute, etc., while 
others follow different conventions, such as 
kHz for 1000 hertz, m/s 2 for meter per 
squared second, MB for megabyte (either 
1,000,000 or 1,048,576 bytes, depending 
upon convention), and so on. Some people 
like to use AMPS, or Amps, or amps, or A, 
to denote the unit to measure electric 
current. We find abbreviations varying 
depending upon scale; sec stands for second, 
while ms means millisecond. Similar 
problems may arise from the use of numerals 
to indicate numbers: 11 may mean in binary 
the value three, in octal the value nine, in 
decimal the value eleven, and in hexadecimal 
the value seventeen. Also relational, mathe- 
matical, and logical operators are not con- 
sistently used. Some writers prefer to use the 
symbol AND, others the ampersand (&), and 
others use the dot (•) to indicate the logical 
AND operation. You find the slash (/) used 
for division of numbers, or to mean the 
logical OR operation. 

To help our readers understand the use of 
these different symbols, BYTE will attempt 
to consistently employ certain abbreviations 
for frequently used units of measure, scale 
factors in measurements, operators, and 
number bases. 

All numbers are assumed to be decimal 
numbers unless it has been stated specifically 
to the contrary: In these instances the base 
of the number system is indicated in the 
text, in a column heading, etc. Leading zeros 
are omitted. The hexadecimal number OF 
will be written as F for the same reason that 
leading zeros in decimal numbers are 
omitted. We generally do not write 015 but 



15 for the decimal number fifteen. 

Leading zeros, on the other hand, are 
important in the representation of strings. 
Arithmetic operations require numbers, and 
logic operations use strings. In the latter 
case, leading zeros are significant. For 
example, a 16 bit register is to be set to a 
value of 15. One approach, using numbers, is 
to zero the register and add the hexadecimal 
number F to the register. Another approach, 
using strings, is to load the register with the 
bit string '0000 0000 0000 1111' which can 
be represented in hexadecimal notation as 
'00 OF'. The spaces within the string quotes 
are not part of the symbols representing the 
string value; they simply add to the legibility 
and may be omitted. In the above example, 
the strings were qualified: The first one is a 
bit string, and the second one a hexadecimal 
string. An unqualified string, therefore, is 
assumed to be a text string consisting of 
letters, digits, and punctuation marks 
including spaces: ' ' is a string of a single 
space on your typewriter or terminal which 
translates to '40' hexadecimal or '0100 
0000' binary in the Extended Binary 
Decimal Interchange Code (EBCDIC). 

In other words, numbers are decimal, and 
strings, which are to be enclosed in string 
quotes, are the usual letters, digits, and 
special symbols, unless they are specifically 
qualified as binary, octal, or hexadecimal 
representations. 

Ambiguity exists also in the symbols k 
and K used as scale factors. According to 
Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary (1975, 
page 629), the lower case letter k means 
1024; according to conventional use, such as 
kg for kilogram, km for kilometer, etc., this 
symbol means 1000. In the computing litera- 
ture, on the other hand, the capital letter K 
is often used in measuring memory size and 
line transmission speeds. In these instances K 
means a factor of 1024. BYTE will follow 
this convention: K means 1024 and k is a 
factor of 1000. There are many more scale 



64 



factors used in scaling measurements. Table 
1 shows the various unit of measure prefixes 
which will be used in BYTE. 

All but one scale factor are powers of ten. 
The exception is K which equals 2**10 or 
1024. The two asterisks have been employed 
to indicate exponentiation instead of the 
frequently found superscript 2*®. The pur- 
pose of this notation is to facilitate the 
printing of formulas on line printers and 
terminals which otherwise would require 
special hardware and programming to raise 
the exponent. In a similar manner the slash 
(/) is being used to indicate division. Table 2 
below lists operations performed on numbers. 



Table 1 : Scale of Measurement Prefixes 

Abbreviation Meaning and Example 



T 

G 

M 

K 

k 

h 

D 

d 

c 

m 

u 

n 

P 



Tera or one trillion; five terabits or 5 Tb 
Giga or one billion; two gigahertz or 2 GHz 
Mega or one million; 28 megabytes or 28 MB 
K or 1 024; two K bytes or 2 KB or 2048 B 
Kilo or one thousand; two kilohertz or 2 kHz 
Hecto or one hundred; 5 hectometers or 5 hm 
Deka or ten; six dekaliters or 6 Dl 
Deci or one tenth; five decimeters or 5 dm 
Centi or one hundredth; 90 centimeters or 90 cm 
Milli or one thousandth; one millihenry or 1 mH 
Micro or one millionth; six microfarads or 6 uF 
Nano or one billionth; 18 nanoseconds or 18 ns 
Pico or one trillion th; four picofarads or 4 pF 



Table 2: Mathematical Operations 



Abbr 



Meaning and Example 



x( ) Function, where x is replaced by a function abbreviation, 
and the arguments are placed in parentheses, e.g., 
MAX(4, 7, 2) is 7, the maximum of the three values. 

** Exponentiation; 2**10 

Negation, a prefix operator; 4 is 4 

* Multiplication; A * 4 

/ Division; 4/8 

+ Addition; A + C 

- Subtraction; 5—4 



Table 3: Concatenation and Comparisons 

Abbreviation Meaning and Example 



CAT or 



LT 


< 


NL 


^< 


LE 


<= 


EQ 


= 


NE 


— .= 


GE 


> = 


GT 


> 


NG c 


r -.> 



Concatenation; 'aC CAT ' ' yields 'aC 

Less than; ' ' LT 'a' in EBCDIC 

Not less than 

Less than or equal to 

Equal to 

Not equal to 

Greater than or equal to; if A GE B then 

Greater than; it is false that 5 GT 6 

Not greater than; 5 NG 6 is true 



TROUBLED BY 
TRIGGERED 

SCOPES? 




The Hickok Model 512 Dual 
Trace Oscilloscope eliminates 
the set-up and precision 
problems you've had to accept 
using other triggered scopes. 
It's easy to set up 

■ Simplified color-coded front panel 
controls. 

■ Beam finder quickly locates off-scale 
traces. 

■ Foolproof triggering to 1 5 MHz. 
It gives you superior performance 

■ 10 MHz response flat within 3dB. 
Excellent pulse response. 

■ 3% accuracy on vertical and hori- 
zontal ranger. 

Hickok industrial lab quality and con- 
struction 

Glass epoxy PC boards used through- 
out. Regulated power supply. 

AT YOUR DISTRIBUTOR *0/5 

complete with probes and accessories 

HICKOK 

the value innovator 

INSTRUMENTATION & CONTROLS DIVISION 
THE HICKOK ELECTRICAL INSTRUMENT CO. 
10514 Dupont Avenue • Cleveland, Ohio 4410B 
(216) 541-B060 . TWX: 810-421-8286 



65 



Table 4: Logical Operations and Assignment 



Besides mathematical operations which 
require numbers, relational operations (com- 
parisons) may be performed on either 
numbers or strings; in addition, only strings 
may be concatenated, i.e., tied together. The 
string 'abc' concatenated with '1234' results 
in the string 'abc1234'. This may be written 
either 'abc' CAT '1234' or 'abc' || '1234'. 
Since not all terminals have these special 
symbols, an alternative set of two or three 
upper case letters can be employed. The 
abbreviations for relational and concatena- 
tion operations are shown in table 3. 

While the concatenation of two strings 
results in a string, a comparison operation 
returns a value of true or false which can be 
expressed as a bit. A binary T represents 
true (or yes) and '0' false (or no). This value 
of a comparison may be assigned to a logical 
(bit string) variable. In this context, the 
different uses of the equality symbol 
become very clear: It is used to assign a 
value to a variable, and to test equality. 

In order to make the difference between 
the assignment operation and the equality 
comparison more clear, we will use the colon 
followed by an equal sign (:=) to denote the 
assignment, and reserve the equal sign for 
comparisons of equality. To set a 16 bit 
register RA to a value of 15, you may write 
RA:=15; to compare the register with the 
value 15, you may write RA=15. In this 
instance the comparison happens to return a 
true value, i.e., a '1' bit which may be saved 
in a bit string variable named SWITCH by 
writing SWITCH: = RA=15. Of course, this 
latter expression does not mean that you 
may type it into your computer and expect 
results. This depends on the availability of a 
compiler which would generate the appro- 
priate code. On the other hand, this state- 
ment expresses an intent and a purpose of a 
computation, no matter how many machine 
instructions need to be issued, regardless of 
the computer at hand. 

Like numbers, bit strings have their own 
set of operations resulting in bit strings. 
Special graphics are often used to indicate 
these operations. For example, some people 
prefer the dot (•) to indicate logical AND, 
others use the ampersand (&), and others use 
alphabetic keywords like and or AND. We 
will try to be consistent in our use of these 
symbols in order to facilitate your reading of 
the magazine. Since only a few computer 
output devices have extended graphic 
character sets, two choices are presented in 
table 4. 

Abbreviations of units of measurement 
vary widely. We find, for example, amp, 



Abbreviation Meaning and Example 

NOT or -i Denial, a prefix operator; '0' is 

AND or & Conjunction; C := A & B 

NAND Negated conjunction 

OR or | Alternation D :=C A 

NOR Negated alternation 

:= Assignment; X := 15 



amps, AMP, Amp, Amps, AMPs, AMPS, 
ampere, amperes, a or A to denote the unit 
of measure for electric current. Often abbre- 
viations are not used consistently, e.g., sec 
versus ms which stand for second and 
millisecond, respectively. 

There also seems to be little consistency 
in spelling and hyphenating, e.g., Hertz or 
hertz, Giga-Hertz, GigaHertz or gigahertz, 
etc. We decided, therefore, to spell units of 
measure in lower case letters. After all, these 
are measurement units and not the people 
after whom they were named. 

The inconsistent usage of abbreviations 
creates a real problem; it's like learning 
different languages, or dialects, to say the 
least. We thought that frequently used units 
of measure should be abbreviated as short as 
possible, preferably as a single letter, unless 
this conflicts with standard usage. We will 
attempt to use capital letters for abbrevia- 
tions because they stand out more clearly 
than lower case letters. 

Acronyms, by the way, are always capital 
letters because each letter represents the first 
letter of each word of the compound term 
for which the acronym stands. Multiple 
letter abbreviations, on the other hand, may 
have an initial capital letter followed by 
lower case letters, such as Hz for hertz. 
Table 5 lists some of the more frequently 
encountered units of measure in BYTE. ■ 



T is always true 



Abbreviation 

A 
b 
B 
C 

db 

g 

H 

Hz 

m 

O 

s 

V 

W 



Table 5: Units of Measure Abbreviations 

Meaning and Example 

ampere; 5 kA, five kiloamperes 

bit; 1 Kb, one K bits, K bits 

byte; 14 KB, 14 K bytes 

character; 14.8 C/s, 14.8 characters a second 

decibel; 40 db, 40 decibels 

gram; 3 Dg, three dekagrams 

henry; 50 mH, 50 millihenry 

hertz; 2 GHz, two gigahertz 

meter; 10 m, ten meters, ten meter band 

ohm; 28 kO, 28 kiloohms 

second; 1 ns, one nanosecond 

volt; 16 mV, 16 millivolts 

watt; 2 MW, two megawatts 



66 



For The Joules, 
It's a Steal 



I just bought a 105 W power supply for 
under fifty cents a Watt. This is the 
"sophisticated logic supply,"* 21 A at 5 V 
which is available from at least two sources: 
Meshna Electronics, P.O. Box 62, E Lynn 
MA 01904 and Electro Science Mart, 119 
Foster St., Peabody MA 01960. Using stan- 
dard TTL logic, a good rule of thumb is to 
allow one A at 5 V for approximately 30 
ICs. Thus this power supply, manufactured 
by Dressen-Barnes, is capable of powering 
approximately 600 ICs. For the average 
computer hobbyist who is designing his or 
her own system, one of these supplies will be 
perfect for the main power supply. It is 
cheap enough to buy right away, and it has 
sufficient capacity for just about any con- 
ceivable future expansion (not being 
"average" myself, I just ordered a second 
supply to cover my anticipated future 
needs). 



The supply comes as a black box with 
several interconnection terminals. Two of 
these terminals are for the 110 V AC input. 
Three other terminals are for the positive 
output, negative output, and ground. For +5 
Volt TTL then, the negative output should 
be connected to ground. Since it is a black 
box, the supply does not come with line 
cord, pilot light or switch. I surmounted this 
problem by building the supply into an 
aluminum chassis along with a custom ±12 V 
power supply. Although the unit is built 
with massive heat sinks, I decided to mount 
a ventilating fan to ensure good air flow for 
an extra measure of cooling. 

The power supply comes with a fuse 
protected output and a voltage adjustment 
pot. The pot adjusts the output from 4 V to 
about 5.6 V. I also hooked up a test load of 
a Vi O, 50 W resistor to check on the ripple 
of the supply with a 10 A load. I could see 
only about 10 to 15 mV of ripple on my 
oscilloscope. Also, voltage stability over a 
period of 24 hours was good; I saw no 
measurable drift. 

In summary, this supply has the capacity 
to rectify a lot of current problems. Watt a 
bargain! ■ 

*As advertised on page 95 of the November 1975 
BYTE. 



Peter H. Helmers 
79 Evangeline St. 
Rochester NY 14619 




Systems Research, Inc. presents — 

A Complete Microcomputer for only *$575. 

The SRI-500 

Includes TTY and RS-232 Interfaces. Connects to any 20MA loop teletype. Enclosed 
In a compact, desk top unit, It contains 1K (word) RAM**, expandable Prom, power 
supply and extra main board connectors to accept many options. The SRI-500 series 
Is designed around the new Mostek F-8, an 8 bit processor with a designers develop- 
ment program residing in the program storage unit, making programming an easy 
task even lor the Inexperienced user. 
* Special Introductory offer 
** Additional Ram available 



Available Options 

SRI-510 Keyboard (provides 
full keyboard control) 

$125 
SRI-520 Video Interface (RF 
or Video) 

$175 
SRI-530 Casette Interface 

$ 75 
Complete Blackjack game 
program to demonstrate or 
exercise the SRI-500 
(Specify paper tape or 
Casette) free with order 
of SRI-500 (limited offer) 



All items completely assembled and tested — 
allow 60-90 days delivery time. All items 
shipped postpaid. 
Send Cash or check for: 

ea. SRI-500 $ ea. SRI-510 $ 

ea. SRI-520 $ ea. SRI-530 $ 



Mastercharge tt 

BankAmericard # 
Signature 



.Interbank # . 
_Exp. Date _ 



Systems Research, Inc. 
P.O. Box 151280 
Salt Lake City. Utah 84115 
(801) 942-1093 



Cl'P s 



5 %5& ..... 

non-shorting access 
to all leads on dual-in-line 
IC packages 

No more shorting across 
DIP leads... just quickly 
clip on an IC TEST CLIP 
to bring DIP leads out for 
safe attachment of scope 
probes and other leads, 
ideal for signal input, trac- 
ing, troubleshooting, etc. 
Patented precision, "con- 
tact comb" design guar- 
antees no shorting be- 
tween DIP leads. Probes 
can hang "no-hands" free 
on Test Clip terminals in 
card racks (unique — see 
photo). Engineered Me- 
chanical clamping plus 
gold-plated phosphor 
bronze terminals provide 
superior electrical con- 
tact. Also unequaled as a 
DIP remo val tool. 




Model 


Row-To- 
Row Dim. 


Part 
Number 


Price 


TC-8 


.3 IN. 


923695 


$7.35 


TC-14 


.3 IN. 


923698 


4.50 


TC-16 


.3 IN. 


923700 


4.75 


TC-16 LSI 


.5/. 6 IN. 


923702 


8.95 


TC-18 


.3 IN. 


923703 


10.00 


TC-20 


.3 IN. 


923704 


11.55 


TC-22 


.4 IN. 


923705 


11.55 


TC-24 


.5/. 6 IN. 


923714 


13.85 


TC-28 


.5/. 6 IN. 


923718 


15.25 


TC-36 


.5/. 6 IN. 


923720 


19.95 


TC-40 


.5/. 6 IN. 


923722 


21.00 



We honor M.C. and B.A.C. charges. 

Add sales tax on OH and CA orders. 

(F.O.B. Painesvilleon company P.O.'s.l 

Dealer inquiries invited 



Add ». 

fees from 
this chart. 



SHIPPING/HANDLING 



Up to $10.00 $1.00 

$10.01 10 $25.00 1.50 
25.01 to 50.00 2.00 




All products guaranteed to meet or exceed published specifications 

AP PRODUCTS INCORPORATED 

Box 110-G* Painesville, OH 44077* 216/354-2101 



67 




Clubs and Newsletters 



Pittsburgh Group 

The following note was received from 
Eric Liber and Fred Kitman of Pittsburgh: 
Dear Fellow Computer Phreaks: 

Just a quick note to let you know thai 
hobby computing and computers are alive 
and well in Pittsburgh. The name of the 
organization is the Pittsburgh Area Com- 
puter Club. We had our first meeting on 
October 8, 1975 and even though the 
weather was inclement we had 1 5 people in 
attendance. In addition there is definite 
interest from at least that many more! Not 
bad for a beginning. 

The name of our acting president is Eric 
Liber and the name of the secretary/ 
treasurer is Fred Kitman. We can be reached 
at the address below or at the following 
telephone numbers: Day: 412-391-3800; 
Night: 412-276-6546. 

The members of the club have a total of 5 
computers with 2 Altairs, 1 PDP/11, one 
Wang and one 8008. Not a bad start!! 
Pittsburgh Area Computer Club, 400 Smith- 
field St., Pittsburgh PA 15222. 



The Santa Barbara California Club 



Virginia Seminars 

David G. Larsen of Virginia Polytechnic 
Institute and State University, Blacksburg 
VA 24061 sends in the following notice of 
two seminars which will be given this coming 
March on microcomputer themes. 

1. Microcomputer Interfacing Workshop, 
March 12-13, 1976. A two-day workshop 
based on the popular Intel 8080 micro- 
processor. This course is sponsored by the 
VPI and SU Extension Division at the 
VPI Center in Reston VA (near Dulles 
Airport). This workshop will include many 
hours of experience in programming and 
interface construction with over 12 oper- 
ating microcomputers for participant use. 
For more information contact Dr. Norris 
Bell, VPI and SU Continuing Education 
Center, Blacksburg VA 24061, 
703-951-6328. 

2. Digital Electronics for Automation and 
Instrumentation, March 21-26, which is a 
hands on laboratory/lecture course covering 
basic digital electronics as well as data 
communications and interfacing using asyn- 
chronous serial techniques. It is held at VPI 
and SU in Blacksburg VA and is sponsored 
by the American Chemical Society, Educa- 
tion Division, 1155 16th St NW, Washington 
DC 20036 (202)-872-4528. 



Doug Penrod, 1445 La Cima Road, Santa 
Barbara CA 93101 sent in a good letter 
describing the newly formed club which has 
been meeting at the Goleta Library. 
Interested persons from the Santa Barbara 
area should contact Doug by mail or phone 
(962-3337). The club is best described by 
the following paragraph copied from 
Datafile, Volume 1 number 0: 

The first meeting of the un-named club of 
computer hobbyists of the Santa Barbara 
area was held Wednesday evening at 7:30, 
1975 October 8 at the Goleta Library, 500 
North Fairview. Attendees ranged from 
professionals to those with a keen interest 
but no knowledge so far. Equipment ranged 
from abacus and slide rule to a Data General 
Eclipse system. Most expressed an interest in 
owning a machine of their own, from pro- 
grammable calculator through microcom- 
puter to minicomputer. Most felt that the 
most valuable feature of meetings is the 
"random access" period, during which 
members mill about and compare notes on 
their projects and problems, and examine 
hardware brought for display and consulta- 
tion. At the first meeting was an HP-65 
(Ralph Boland), a MITS Altair 8800 (Doug 
Penrod), a MITS Scientific Calculator (Doug 
Penrod), a home brew microcomputer built 
around an Intel 8008 microprocessor chip 
(Larry Plate), and a "TV Typewriter" (Grant 



68 



Runyan). Brian Johnson gave a lecture on 
microprocessors and computer principles for 
beginners, during the random access period. 
Everyone who is interested in any aspect of 
computing/calculating is encouraged to join 
us at our meetings. If you like mathematical 
games and puzzles, computer history, want 
to learn how computers work, want to build 
a computer or calculator, want to learn 
programming — any aspect of software or 
hardware, this is the place to meet the 
people you want to talk to. In addition to 
informal exchange of information, help, and 
goodies, we expect to have talks and demon- 
strations by experts on occasion. We also 
offer advice on publications and books. 



Minneapolis-St. Paul Computer Activities 

The BIT USERS ASSOCIATION is an 
organization of computer hobbyists and 
small systems engineers serving primarily the 
Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area. The 
members seek to exchange newsletters and 
technical data with organizations or 
individuals with similar interests. 

The BIT USERS ASSOCIATION was 
begun in 1973 by users of the BIT 480-483 
minicomputers, and remains a source for 
replacement parts and licenses regarding the 
said machines. It has expanded to encompass 
persons with interest in various minicom- 
puters and microprocessors, and is actively 
engaged in the design and construction of 
selected peripheral devices suitable for 
hobbyist use and which can be built at low 
cost at home. Raster-scan television graphic 
and uniquely dense alphanumeric television 
terminals, for example, are in final stages of 
development. 

The sponsor of the BIT USERS ASSO- 
CIATION is the Resource Access Center, a 
non-profit educational center serving com- 
munity service agencies. Inquirers are 
requested to send self addressed stamped 
envelope, but no other monies please. In 
Minneapolis, telephone 824-6406 (or 
message service, 823-8247). BIT USERS 
ASSOCIATION, RESOURCE ACCESS 
CENTER, 3010 4th Ave S, Minneapolis MN 
55408. 



Nashua NH Area Computer Club 

Dwayne Jeffries, 181 Cypress Lane, 
Nashua NH 03060 notes formation of a 
computer club in the Nashua NH area. For 
information and details, contact Dwayne. 

Continued on page 70 




Aixnxrou]xrci]\rG 

RJVSIC -S USERS CRT 

1 . 1 ,920 character display — 80 characters x 24 lines 

2. Basic language with extended math functions 

3. More powerful than many mini-computer basic systems 

4. Available 1st quarter of 1976 

PHONE: 617-966-0929 

9080 Microproc $56.00 

Replaces 8080 

91 L02 1 K low power RAM 3.90 

2102 1 K RAM 2.90 

ASCI I Keyboard Kit 79.50 

FEATURES: Full 55 key, 

reliable scanning logic, N 

^ (| ^» , J5> key rollover, TTL com- 

^j/^-^Sg&jBfKfa patible parallel output. 

■•■':,,. ,^v»' Ijtji j^P f^S ' Also available-serial out- 

'/■^iv«^4j^Wj3Dk2JJ5fT^ put, parity bit, TTY 

i. f *^|HQ5i^3^BHHH^P "?" current loop output. 

-- „-"''' kits available: 

1702 PROM Programmer 125.00 
8223 PROM Programmer 79.50 
Audio cassette interface 69.50 
CRT TV display 



MIKRA-D 



A 



MIKRA-D Inc., 
P.O. Box 403, 
Holliston MA 01746 



Miami Area Computer Club 

Terry Williamson, P.O. Box 430852, S. 
Miami FL 33143 went to the MITS Caravan 
seminar in Miami recently. As often 
happens when people get together with 
common interests, Terry got involved in 
conversations with several other personal 
computer addicts at the MITS show. The net 
result is the forming of a Miami area 
computer club. For details contact Terry by 
mail or at 305-271-9909. Thanks to MITS 
for catalyzing another computer club. 



North Texas Group 



and mathematical subroutines for floating 
point. Specialized functions may be added 
by the user. 

The proposed syntax and grammar for 
TINY BASIC is described in the PCC news- 
paper Vol. 4, nos. 1 and 2. The design 
philosophy is to keep it simple and use as 
little memory as possible. Speed is sacrificed. 
PCC would greatly appreciate any help 
and ideas. Sixteen bit (double word) addi- 
tion, subtraction, multiplication, division, 
decimal-binary and random number routines 
are needed. 

Bernard R. Greening 

People's Computer Company 

P.O. Box 310 

Menlo Park CA 94025 



The Computer Hobbyist Group of North 
Texas is the name of the computer club in 
the Dallas-Fort Worth Area. In a recent 
letter to BYTE, Bill Fuller (hardware editor 
of TCHGNT newsletter) comments: 

"... thanks for the plugs in BYTE for 
the Texas Club. We went from 35 to 75 
since BYTE appeared and that's why I'm so 
darn busy." 

The club puts out a newsletter with 
information on activities, and has arranged 
for some demonstrations by computer com- 
pany representatives and by members who 
have built computers. Meetings are held 
monthly. For latest details, contact Bill 
Fuller at 2377 Dalworth 157, Grand Prairie 
TX 75050. 



Washington DC Area Club Activity? 

Robert Jones of Washington DC is 
interested in organizing a computer club for 
the nation's capital. If you are interested, 
contact him at: 4201 Massachusetts Ave, 
Apt. 1 68 W, Washington DC 2001 6. 



Reston VA Club? 

In Reston VA, Andrew Convery reports 
that he is interested in assembling a local 
club. Contact him at 2315 Freetown Ct, Apt 
11C, Reston VA 22091. His home phone is 
(703) 860-1849, and his work phone is 
(703)241-3551. 



Tiny Basic 

People's Computer Company has been 
promoting programming in BASIC. Several 
companies have produced inexpensive micro- 
processor chips. One of these, Intel, has made 
the Intel 8080 chip. Currently available 
versions of BASIC take 4 to 8K words of 
memory. 

PCC is working on a TINY BASIC. It will 
be oriented to: 

kids having fun 

teaching BASIC 

games 

elementary school arithmetic 

mathematical recreations 

send us your ideas . . . 

It will run on an Intelec 8/Mod 80 or an 
ALTAI R 8800. It will use 16 bit (double 
word) integer arithmetic. Its design will be 
public so that others may reorganize the IO 



News of NECC 

The New England Computer Club held its 
first meeting on November 5, 1975, at the 
Jarrell-Ashe plant in Waltham MA with 
about 200 people showing up. As is typical 
of "first meetings," the most important 
objective was accomplished — the assembly 
of a mailing list of interested individuals, and 
identification of a small group willing to put 
together a more formal organization. Future 
meetings have tentatively been scheduled for 
the Mitre Corporation cafeteria in Bedford 
MA. 

One key goal is setting up a series of 
seminars on the technology of hardware and 
software. Other expected activities are 
"show and tell," trading posts for equipment 
exchange among individuals, and talks by 
manufacturers or computer users concerning 
applications of the technology. A newsletter 
will be financed by the sale of 30 Intel 8080 
systems manuals donated by the local repre- 
sentative. 



70 



Ydu can buy 

this microcomputer 

for $39.95, but... 



We would be a bit surprised if you 
could do anything meaningful without 

additional hardware and software. mc 

Wave Mate's Jupiter II™ isn't the kind of 

microcomputer kit you only stare at . . . when 

you've completed your Jupiter II just plug in 

your teletype and you're ready to go. That's 

because it goes beyond the sum of its high 

quality parts. It's the ultimate micro kit 

experience. In performance, in documentation, 

in reliability. First, consider its superb features. 

It has small pluggable wire wrapped cards 

easily tailored to suit your modifications. 

Every IC is socketed and 100% burn-in tested. 




6800 



In fact every part including the powerful 
MC 6800 CPU and the 8K dynamic RAM 
is guaranteed for 120 days. It has the best 
software around, System Monitor and Debug 
programs (ROM). Includes powerful text 
editor and Motorola compatible assembler. 
And BASIC at no extra cost. Because we've 
been making microcomputer systems for over 
4 years, we can offer you the broadest line of 
interfaces including TV terminal and dual 
audio cassette. Impressive. And yet the 
grandest feature is the experience ( / f yi J 
of completing a kit that works. C lX3 / J 
Guaranteed. lUaue mate. 



ACT NOW AND SAVE. 
Introductory price $1225. (Assembled $1885.) 
(Good until February 1, 1976) 
2 Send Jupiter II Microcomputer Kit. Includes: 



• Modular plug-in power 
supply 

• 9 module PC backplane 

• CPU module 

• System monitor module 

• 8K dynamic RAM 
module 

• Serial RS 232 
communication interface 
module 

• Front panel module 

• Front panel 

• Wire; cut, stripped, color 
coded. 



Rack mount module cage 

Wire wrap tool 

Wire unwrap tool 

Cables, connectors, all 

other necessary 

hardware 

Software (editor, debug, 

assembler, BASIC) 

Assembly manuals 

Operators manuals 

Theory of operation 

manuals 

Annual membership in 

users group 






O Send details on kit-a-month club 

□ Kit □ Assembled 

□ RS 232C conversion kit (teletype) $47.85 

□ I'm not convinced; send me 101 reasons why. 

□ Please send free Jupiter II System catalogue. 

□ Check enclosed for $ 



Include $10.00 for postage and handling. California 
residents add 6% tax Delivery 60 days ARO 

□ Master Charge # 

□ Bank Americard # 

Credit card expires on 

Name 




Address . 



City/State/Zip. 



WAVE MATE 

1015 West 190th Street Gardena, California 90248 

Telephone (213) 329-8941 



BE I 

U/aue. TTlate, 



WARRANTY 
120 days on all parts, 
■ materials and workmanship. 



71 



Permission Granted to Xerox 

(or 3M, IBM, Apeco or otherwise facsimile, copy or duplicate) 



BYTE SUBSCRIBERS WILL LEARN . . . 

About all of the new small systems coming on the market . . . which are real and which are 
still in development stages . . . there will be a simple series of articles on computer languages . . . 
reviews of kits . . . info on surplus buys and used equipment . . . circuits for building your own 
equipment . . . discussions of standards . . . news of user clubs and programs available . . . info 
on specialized newsletters . . . games and game groups . . . game programs . . . computer art . . . 
computer music . . . and if that doesn't cover it, all you have to do is write in and either say 
what else you want or else start writing the articles yourself. 



BYTERSSAVE ... 

With single copies going for $1.50 (insane price), the $12 subscription price begins to look 
attractive. You won't want to miss a copy (presumably), so fill in the coupon here and send it 
in quickly ... no cash needed, just send it in, we'll put you into the subscription computer 
(with fingers crossed) and send you the invoice. It's probably a business expense, right? If you 
dislike ripping your soon to be valuable issue of BYTE to shreds by removing a coupon, you are 
hereby given permission in perpetuity (until subscription rates go up) to violate the copyright 
and make a copy of any one of the four coupons . . . neatness counts. Your friends may do 
likewise, unless you are a lot less persuasive than we think you are. 

The Management 



r 



Name . . 
Address . 
City . . . 



Cut 



T" 



Tear 



. State 



Zip. 



□ BILL ME □ Check for $12 enclosed 

□ Bill BankAmericard or MasterCharge #. 



L. 



Name . . 
Address . 
City . . . 



State 



Zip. 



□BILL ME □ Check for $12 enclosed 

□ Bill BankAmericard or MasterCharge #. 



*"l 



Shred 



Rip 



Name . . 
Address . 
City . . . 



State Zip . 



Name . . 
Address . 
City . . . 



. State . 



Zip. 



□ BILL ME □ Check for $12 enclosed 

□ Bill BankAmericard or MasterCharge #. 



□ BILL ME OCheck for $12 enclosed 

□ Bill BankAmericard or MasterCharge #. 



_l_ 



BYTE • Peterborough NH 03458 



72 



MITS Computer Caravan 



The Mighty MITS Mobile stopped off in 
Boston recently and roused the micropro- 
cessor byters from the woodwork. It was a 
good deal like a club meeting as the MITS 
Computer Caravan paused to provide a 
seminar for 30 plus enthusiasts. 

Since it is more than likely that virtually 
every one who is reading this brief report 
was to some degree snared into the com- 
puter hobby field as a result of the Altair 
8800, we won't try to explain who MITS is 
or what they make. 

But reading about the Altair and seeing it 
in action are two different things, so the 
crowds have been catching the Caravan in 
large numbers. It's a good show, so don't 
miss it when it comes around. The registra- 
tion fee is $12 and for that price you get a 
loose leaf binder with schematics of the 
Altair and notes to go with the short 
instruction course presented during the 
Caravan seminar. The book alone makes the 
price reasonable. You also get an oppor- 
tunity to see the Altair in action and ask 
questions until you get tired. 

The 8800 on demo had a teletype IO and 
a cassette memory unit, which is what most 
of us were anxious to see and try out. The 
program was a good one, starting out with a 
discussion of the fundamentals of computers 
and logic, then the Altair hardware, and 
finally the software with a demo of MITS 
BASIC. 

A couple of non-beginners went out for a 
short snort or something while the introduc- 
tion to logic circuits unfolded . . . everyone 
else listened with interest. The session was 
run by Mike Hunter, who has been driving 
the Caravan all around the country. 

The standard modem tones of 2025 and 
2225 Hz were used for the cassette storage 
. . . which seemed like a good feature. After 
a short loading program via the front panel 
switches BASIC was loaded from a cassette 
and demonstrated. This certainly appears to 
be a very good version of BASIC and to have 
a lot of advantages over other possible 
languages. 

The soon to be released floppy disk 
operating system was discussed. This will 
make fast access bulk memory available for a 
very reasonable price as compared to com- 
mercial units now available for the minicom- 



puter systems. MITS is reportedly going to 
have this ready for use in a few weeks. This 
certainly will be a major step toward pro- 
viding low cost complete operating com- 
puter systems. 

The MITS line printer is also about to be 
released, complete with its operating system, 
and magnetic tape memories are in the 
works. Considering that all this really started 
only about one year ago, the progress by 
MITS has been just about incredible. 

The MITS Caravan was thoroughly 
enjoyed by everyone and it seems likely that 
as a result of the group getting together for 
that seminar that a club will be forming . . . 
another feather in the cap for MITS. This 
sort of thing has been happening all around 
the country. ■ 



cl r sup 




fastest, most reliable 

method known. ..to build, test 

and modify experimental circuits 



8-bus distribution system 
plus universal .1" by .1" matrix 
of solderless, plug-in tie points 

all in one integral device. 

Accepts all DIP'S and discretes 
with leads up to .032" dia. 

Interconnect with any solid wire 
up to No. 20A.W.G. 

ORDER BY PART NUMBER 

923252 lllickel-silver terminals! $17.00 

923748 {gold plated terminals! $18.90 



High-performance A P Super- 
Strip component matrices consist 
of 128 terminals of 5 tie points 
each. The 8 buses of 5 connect- 
ed 5-tie-point terminals are for 
voltage, ground, reset and clock 
lines, shift command, etc. New, 
non-shorting, instant-mount 
backing and quick-removal 
screws are supplied... use several 
Super-Strips to create large-scale 
breadboards on panels up to 
1/8" thick. 



We honor M.C and B.A.C. charges. 

Add sales tax on OH and CA orders. 

{F.O.B. Painesville on company P.O.'s.) 

Dealer inquiries invited 



Add ■> 

fees from 
this chart. 



SHIPPING/HANDLING 



Up to $10.00 $1.00 

$10.01 lo $25.00 1.50 
25.01 to 50.00 2.00 




All products guaranteed to meet or exceed published specificetions 

AP PRODUCTS INCORPORATED 

Box 110-G* Painesville, OH 44077* 216/354-2101 



73 



ALTAIR OWNERS 

CMR PRESENTS 

THE MEMORY YOU'VE BEEN 

WAITING FOR 

8K x 8 DYNAMIC RAM 

ON ONE PLUG-IN CARD FOR 



ONLY 



$599 



00* 



• FACTORY ASSEMBLED AND TESTED 

• PLUGS INTO 8800 WITH NO MODIFICATIONS 

• PROTECT-UNPROTECT CIRCUITRY INCLUDED 
TO MATCH 8800 

• TWO 4k BLOCKS OF DYNAMIC R.A.M. 

• USER OR FACTORY ADDRESS PROGRAMMING 
(SPECIFY) 

• EACH CMR-8080-8k is SHIPPED WITH AN EDGE- 
BOARD CONNECTOR INCLUDED. 

• EXPANDER BOARDS AVAILABLE (ADDS FOUR 
SLOTS TO 8800) 

TEN REASONS TO CHOOSE 
THE CMR MEMORY CARD 

1. 300ns ACCESS TIME 

2. TWICE THE MEMORY DENSITY 

3. LESS $$ PER K OF MEMORY 

4. DESIGNED FOR THE 8800 

5. USES THE LATEST T.I. CHIPS 

6. G-10EPOXY BOARDS 

7. PLATED THROUGH HOLES. 

8. GOLD PLATED CONNECTOR CONTACTS. 

9. 8192WORDSOF DYNAMIC RAM 

10. 90 DAY WARRANTY ON PARTS AND LABOR 

*ORDERING NOTE: 

FOR FACTORY PROGRAMMING. SPECIFY TWO 4k 
MEMORY ADDRESS LOCATIONS FOR EACH CMR-8080-8k 
MEMORY CARD ORDERED. 

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY 



□ ENCLOSED IS CHECK OR M.O. FOR $ 

□C.O.D. s ACCEPTED WITH 30% DEPOSIT. TOTAL 
AMOUNT $ 30% = 



VA. 



RESIDENTS ADD 4% 

CMR-8080-8k CARD(S) 



• PLEASE SEND 

DESCRIBED ABOVE @ 599.00 EA. POSTPAID 

•PLEASE SEND EXPANDER BOARD(S) 

(ADDS 4 SLOTS TO 8800) BOARD ONLY ® 15.00 EA. 
POSTPAID TO: 

NAME 



ADDRESS- 



CITY- 



.STATE 8i ZIP_ 



CMR 



COMPUTER MANUFACTURING CO. 



P.O. BOX 167, 1921 DOGWOOD LANE 
VIENNA, VIRGINIA 22180 



That Didn't Take 
Long at All 



In the November issue of BYTE we 
published Dan Fylstra's article "Son of 
Motorola," comparing the new MOS Tech- 
nology 6501 and 6502 computers with the 
Motorola 6800. At the time the article was 
written (late August) he could not predict 
when a kit would be available for the MOS 
Technology processors. 

The first MOS Technology 6502 kit is 
now available: Microcomputer Associates 
Inc., of Cupertino, California, have 
announced the JOLT computer kit. 
According to their news release, this kit 
combines hardware and software for small 
scale computing at a low cost. 

Components of the JOLT include the 
central processor kit, a 4096 byte RAM kit, 
an 10 interface kit, power supply kit, and 
miscellaneous items such as a universal 
prototyping card and an accessory kit. 

The basic central processor card contains 
512 bytes of programmable random access 
memory, 64 bytes of interrupt vector ran- 
dom access memory, and 16 fully program- 
mable 10 lines. The most important feature 
of the CPU card is its read only memory. 
This memory contains the DEMON (DEbug- 
MONitor) program product, a basic software 
element needed to run the system from the 
serial terminal interface, which is imme- 
diately available when you turn on the 
power. 

Classified Ads Available for 
Individuals and Clubs 

Readers who have equipment, software or other 
items to buy, sell or swap should send in a clearly 
typed or printed notice to that effect. The notices 
are free of charge and will be printed one time only 
on a space available basis. Insertions should be 
limited to no more than 100 words. Notices can be 
accepted from individuals or bona fide computer 
users' clubs only. Commercial advertisers should 
contact Bill Edwards, BYTE advertising manager, 
for the latest rate card and terms. 



ALTAIR 8800, assembled, tested, and completely 
operational includes 1 K RAM board with 256 
words. Complete documentation including news- 
letters, quality built by electrical engineer. ONLY 
$500 postpaid. D. Schreiter, 9032 Whitehaven Dr, 
St. Louis MO 63123. 

Would very much like to buy a used memory board 
(or two) for a Raytheon 704 minicomputer. Rick 
Loomis, PO Box 1467, Scottsdale AZ 85252, 
(602) 994-9104 (call afternoons or late at night). 



74 



The DEMON program includes routines 
to display and alter registers or memory, and 
control terminal interface service routines. 
DEMON also includes a breakpoint capa- 
bility useful in debugging programs, two 
kinds of formatted memory read and write 
operations for program loading and saving, a 
high speed 8 bit parallel input routine and 
several 10 service routines which may be 
called by a user's program. 

Perhaps the most unique feature of the 
DEMON program is its adaptable terminal 
interface service routine; the software senses 
and automatically adapts to the speed at 
which the terminal operates between 10 to 
30 characters per second. 

A minimum system built with the JOLT 
components can be assembled from the CPU 
card kit, the accessory kit, and a Teletype or 
RS-232 compatible terminal. With such a 
system, many of the basic concepts of 
programming can be demonstrated within 
the confines of a 512 byte area of user 
memory. Input and output operations can 
take advantage of the DEMON subroutines 
to interact with the terminal. This would 
make a good initial system for a person to 
learn the ropes of computing. 

As programming sophistication increases 
the owner may expand the memory by 
purchasing additional boards. 

For users who want to breadboard their 
own peripherals, the universal card will come 
in handy as a starting point for an interface 
construction project. 

For ordering information and prices, con- 
tact Microcomputer Associates Inc., at 
10440 N Tantau, Cupertino CA 95014, 
408-247-8940. Delivery is 30 days after 
receipt of order according to their news 
release. ■ 



MICROCOMPUTER EXPERT NEEDED. I'll pay 
for the equipment. You put it together. We'll both 
use it once it's running. I'm tired of paving $1 OOO's 
to a 370/155 batch processing service. My interest 
is statistical analysis of large volumes of stock 
market-type data. I need a powerful (for a micro) 
system, with disk or disk-type orientation, tape 
capabilities, line printer, card reader (maybe), 
BASIC or FORTRAN compiler, telecommunica- 
tion ability. Joe Schachter, 41 Amory St., Cam- 
bridge MA 02139. (617) 492-2765. 



USED MICROCOMPUTER 
NEEDED. See ad above. 



EQUIPMENT 



ASR-33 TELETYPE in perfect physical and oper- 
ating condition; 20 mA current loop interface, 
w/reader power supply and pedestal — $500. Also, 
Kleinschmidt drum printer with parallel ASCII, 
TTL-compatible interface, 30 cps in perfect oper- 
ating condition, w/o dress cover — $300. (617) 
757-2037 after 6 pm. D. F. Craft, Jr. 

For sale, DEC PDP8/L mini computer. The com- 
puter is 100% working and in excellent condition. 
Hardware: 4K core, TTY interface, Pos I/O inter- 
face, Pos I/O bus board. Software: editor, diag- 
nostics, assembler, other misc. Price $900. Call 
617-592-2937 evenings. Peter A Balkus, Lynn MA. 



A PRECISION 

WAVEFORM 

GENERATOR 

AT A PRICE YOU 

CAN AFFORD. 




The Hickok 

Model 270 Function Generator 
gives you a lot more waveform 
generating capability than you'd 
expect for its price. 

■ Puts stable, calibrated, high 
quality sine, square and 
triangle waveforms from 1 Hz 
to 500 kHz at your fingertips. 

■ With external connections 
you can produce logic 
pulses, sweeps and ramps, 
AM and FM outputs, phase 
and frequency shift keying 
signals, tone bursts and more. 

■ Its an audio generator and 
much more. 



AT YOUR DISTRIBUTOR 



$ 166 



oo 



HICKOK 



the value innovator 

INSTRUMENTATION & CONTROLS DIVISION 
THE HICKOK ELECTRICAL INSTRUMENT CO. 
10514 Dupont Avenue • Cleveland. Ohio 44108 
(216) 541-8060 • TWX 810-421-8286 



75 




You'll Want to Nybble 
at these Byte Books 

Where does the editor of a computer magazine turn to when he must 
verify some author's hardware design? Information on a 75450 
interface gate, or a 74147 priority encoder circuit does not spring forth 
by magic. Checking the information supplied by authors is part of 
BYTE's quality control program. 
When you build a project, you need this same sort of information. All you find in the advertisements for parts are 
mysterious numbers identifying the little beasties . . . hardly the sort of information which can be used to design a 
custom logic circuit. You can find out about many of the numbers by using the information found in these books. No 
laboratory bench is complete without an accompanying library shelf filled with references - and this set of Texas 
Instruments engineering manuals plus Don Lancaster's 777. Cookbook will provide an excellent starting point or 
addition to your personal library. 



• The TTL Cookbook by Don Lancaster, published by Howard 
W. Sams, Indianapolis, Indiana. Start your quest for data here with 
Don's tutorial explanations of what makes a TTL logic design tick. 
335 pages, $8.95 postpaid. 

• The Supplement to The TTL Data Book for Design Engi- 
neers, by Texas Instruments Incorporated. What happens when 
you can't find a 7400 series device listed in The Data Book for 
Design Engineers? Before you start screaming and tearing your 
hair out in frustration, turn to the Supplement. The Supplement 
has 400 pages of additional information including a comprehensive 
index to both TTL Data Book volumes. To be complete (and keep 
your hair in place and vocal cords intact) you'd best order the 
supplement at $1 .95 to accompany the main volume. 

• The Transistor and Diode Data Book for Design Engineers, 
by Texas Instruments, Incorporated. You'd expect a big fat data 
book and a wide line of diodes and transistors from a company 
which has been around from the start of semiconductors. Well, its 
available in the form of this 1248 page manual from T.I. which 
describes the characteristics of over 800 types of transistors and 
over 500 types of silicon diodes. This book covers the T.I. line of 
low power semiconductors (1 Watt or less). You won't find every 
type of transistor or diode in existence here, but you'll find most 
of the numbers used in switching and amplifying circuits. Order 
your copy today, only $4.95 postpaid. 



• The Semiconductor Memory Data Book for Design Engi- 
neers, by Texas Instruments, Incorporated. Don't forget the 
importance of memories to your systems. Refer to this 272 page 
manual to find out about the T.I. versions of many of the popular 
random access memories and read only memories. Order your 
personal copy today, only $2.95 postpaid. 

• The Linear and Interface Circuits Data Book for Design 
Engineers, by Texas Instruments Incorporated. When you run 
across one of those weird numbers like 75365 the immediate 
frustration problem occurs again. What kind of gate could that be? 
We won't tell in this ad, but you can find out by reading the 
specifications in The Linear and Interface Circuits Data Book for 
Design Engineers. You can interface your brain to the 72xxx 
(linear) and 75xxx (interface) series of functions by ordering your 
copy of this 688 page manual at only $3.95 postpaid. 

• The TTL Data Book for Design Engineers, by Texas 
Instruments Incorporated. How does an engineer find out about 
the TTL circuits? He reads the manufacturer's literature. This 640 
page beauty covers the detailed specs of most of the 7400 series 
TTL logic devices. No experimenter working with TTL has a 
complete library without The TTL Data Book for Design 
Engineers. Order yours today, only $3.95 postpaid. 



Caution: Heavy Reading 

Buyers of these books should be cautioned: heavy reading will be required. These books are so 
filled with information that they weigh in at a total of about 190 ounces (5387 grams). On the basis of 
sheer mass, these books have got to be the bargain of the century. Make sure that you use a 
structurally sound book shelf and above all avoid dropping one of these books on your foot. But the 
mass of these books doesn't affect the bargain: we pay postage on all orders shipped to addresses in 
the USA and Canada, so the prices you see are the prices you pay. (That's only $.005 per gram on the 
average.) 



TTL Cookbook© $8.95 
TTL Data Book @ $3.95 
Supplement to TTL Data Book @ $1 .95 
Linear and Interface Circuits @ $3.95 
Semiconductor Memory Data @ $2.95 
Transistor and Diode Data Book @ $4.95 



Send to: Name 



Address 



City 



State 



Zip 



EITE 



PETERBOROUGH, NH 03458 



□ Check enclosed 

□ Bill MC# 

□ Bill BA# 

Signature 



Exp. Date. 
.Exp. Date. 



76 



YTE'S 
UGS 



Here lies documentation of known bugs 
detected in previous editions of B YTE . . . 

Roger Frank, 1801 E Girard #247, Englc- 
wood CO 80110 points out the following 
error in the text of Jim Hogenson's "Build 
An Oscilloscope Graphics Interface," page 
72 of BYTE #2: The description of control 
code 7 at the top of the third column should 
read: "Control code 7 will not set Z, but will 
decrement the X coordinate of the display. 
This changes the horizontal section of the 
counter only, without affecting stored data 
in the memory of the interface unit." 

The remaining portion of the original 
paragraph describing the and 7 codes 
should be deleted, through the words 
"decrement X control code." 

BYTE #4, page 35, table 3: The Baudot 
code for the letter Q in the table should read 
"I 1 10 1." 



ANSWERS TO DECEMBER 
WORD HUNT page 18 



ACCUMULATOR 


1,3 


8 


ADD (not in address) 


4, 12 


2 


ADDRESS 


1, 15 


8 


ALPHANUMERIC 


1, 1 


2 


AND 


4,3 


1 


APL 


6,4 


5 


ASCII 


16,7 


6 


ASSEMBLER 


19, 12 


7 


ASYNCHRONOUS 


19, 12 


4 


BASIC 


13, 10 


4 


BATCH 


8,5 


5 


BAUD 


2,20 


2 


BCD 


3, 10 


1 


BET 


9,21 


2 


BINARY 


12,8 


4 


BOOLEAN 


13, 10 


7 


BRANCH 


9,21 


4 


BUFFER 


14,17 


2 


BYTE 


9,21 


6 


CHECKSUM 


1,4 


1 


CHIP 


14,7 


8 


CLOCK 


9,17 


7 


COBOL 


13, 1 


8 


COUNTER 


7,13 


6 


DATA 


6,5 


4 


DEBUG 


6,5 


2 


DESTINATION 


2, 15 


2 


DEVICE 


1, 16 


2 


DIAGNOSTIC 


10,2 


8 


DIODE 


21, 1 


8 


DISK 


12, 18 


3 


DISPLAY 


21,1 


6 



16K MEMORY KIT 
LESS THAN 5.5C/W0HD 

16,384 8-BIT WORDS ON 
ON ONE CARD WITH PIGGY-BACK ONLY 

$895.00 

• PLUG DIRECTLY INTO 8800 

• LOW POWER: + 8 TO +10V, LESS THAN 600 mA 

+15 TO +18V, LESS THAN 125 mA 
-15 TO-18V, LESS THAN 30 mA 

• 4K WITH PROTECT-UNPROTECT 

• USES LOW POWER SCHOTTKY TTL 

• MEMORY CHIPS SOCKET MOUNTED 

• 50/50 GOLD-PLATED EDGE CONTACTS 

• EPOXY BOARDS WITH PLATED THRU HOLES 

• JUMPER PROGRAM 16K ADDRESS SLOT 

• 8080 HOME BREW COMPATIBLE 

• 420nS ACCESS DYNAMIC RAM 

• NOT A FLAKE 

INTRODUCTORY SPECIAL ON ORDERS 
RECEIVED BEFORE 1/1/76 

• • Take $50 Discount •• Take Free 50/50 Edge Connector 

• • Pay No Shipping Charges 



WRITE TO DA VE (K6LKL) at 

DUTRONICS 



P.O. Box 9160, 
Stockton CA 95208 



•SPECIFY KIT16KMDY 
*CALIF. RES. ADD SALES TAX 
♦MASTER CHARGE - OK 
*BANKAMERICARD - OK 



(X, Y) 


C( 


3- 


OF 


\L 


)ll^ 


JATES 




4, 3 
























A 






DTL 










i 


6, 10 


2 


ECL 9,2 


8 


EXECUTE 12,17 


6 


EXIT 10,17 


8 


FALSE 15,10 


4 


FETCH 14,4 


8 


FILE 7,7 


5 


FLAG 5,14 


2 


FOCAL 5,14 


6 


FORMAT 5,14 


3 


FORTRAN 7,20 


2 


GATE 2,12 


4 


GLOBAL 11,13 


2 


HALT 7,3 


7 


INPUT 6,6 


7 


INSTRUCTION 20,2 


8 


INTERFACE 20,21 


6 


INTERRUPT 20,21 


4 


JUMP 2,8 


1 


LED 3,17 


2 


LINK 2,21 


2 


LIST 17,12 


8 


LITERAL 13, 18 


2 


LOAD 2, 1 


8 


LOCATION 12,13 


5 


LOG 14,3 


2 


LOOP 4, 2 


6 


LSI 12,10 


6 


MATRICES 8,11 


3 


MEMORY 19,20 


6 


MHZ 9,6 


8 


MICROCOD 


E 








1 


7,2 


6 



DIRECTION 



* 



MICROPROCESSOR 


8, 11 


2 


MNEMONIC 


17,2 


8 


MOS 


8, 1 


8 


OCTAL 


6, 13 


2 


PCB 


20, 14 


5 


PERIPHERAL 


18,1 


8 


PLOT 


12,9 


8 


POINTER 


3, 1 


8 


PRIORITY 


14,19 


2 


PROGRAM 


4,8 


1 


PROM 


12,9 


5 


QUEUE 


2,7 


1 


RAM (not in program) 


8, 12 


2 


READ 


19, 17 


4 


RECORD 


11,8 


4 


ROL 


14,2 


1 


SOURCE 


2, 18 


2 


STACK 


16,9 


4 


STATUS 


11,9 


6 


STORAGE 


17, 14 


6 


SUBROUTINE 


21, 14 


4 


SUBSYSTEM 


8,3 


8 


SYNTAX 


21,20 


4 


TABLE 


12, 12 


2 


TRANSMITTER 


10, 16 


2 


TRAP 


11,21 


4 


TTL 


3,5 


2 


VCC 


14, 1 


6 


VECTOR 


3, 16 


4 


VERIFY 


3, 16 


1 


WIRE 


4, 19 


6 


WORD 


4, 19 


5 



77 





Hit the deck in shorts and 
a tee shirt. Or your bikini if 
you want. 

You're on a leisurely cruise 
to remote islands. With names 
like Martinique, Grenada, 
Guadeloupe. Those are the 
ones you've heard of. 

A big, beautiful sailing vessel 
glides from one breathtaking 
Caribbean jewel to another. 
A 1 fj-i I And you're aboard, having 

■ iBnOWt the time of your life with an 

intimate group of lively, fun- 
loving people. Singles and 
couples, too. There's good food, 
"grog',' and a few pleasant 
comforts... but there's little 
resemblance to a stay at a 
fancy hotel, and you'll be 
happy about that. 

Spend ten days exploring 
paradise and getting to know 
congenial people. There's no 
other vacation like it. 
Your share from $245. A new cruise is forming now. 
Write Cap'n Mike for your free adventure 
booklet in full color. 




Windjammer Cruises. 



A WINDJAMMER INTERNATIONAL SUBSIDIARY • OTC 



Name 



Oiv 



Stale 



Zpp 



Phone 



P.O. Box 120, Dept. 121 



Miami Beach, Florida 33139 



78 



CONTINENTAL 
SPECIALTIES 



$15.95 




PROTO BOARD 6 
The PB-6 rets the user test and huikl 
circuits without soldering or palch 

cords 1 all interconnections betwm.'i 
components are mad? with com- 
mon #22 AWG hook-up wire. This 
qii, Lilly iireisdboardmy kit inliidr;!; 
630 component tie paints at less 
than 2.5c each. II measures 6" long 
by 4" wide. Designed specially to 
Breadboard Micropiccessor Cir- 
cuits S15.95 



PHOTO BOARD 100 
A low cost. Dig 10 IC capacity 
breadboard kit wi:n all tfie quality of 
OT sockets and the best ol the Proto 
nn;i[d series complete down to 
the last nul, boll and screw. In- 
cludes 2 QT-35S Sockets; 1 QT-35B 
Bus Strip. 2 S-way binding posts; 4 
rubber tect: screws, nuts, halls: and 
easy assembly instructions. 
S19.95 




Ciuig IC leads Irom pc board lor fast signal tracing 

and troubleshooting. Inject signals. Wire unused 
mts into boards. Scope probes and lest leads 
Ohio Dyrinyrsp inset (sen circle) for hands-off 

testing. Plaslic construction eliminates spring; 
■ts. Non-corrosive nrckel>'silver contacts U 

simultaneous row resistance connections 

PC-14, 14-pin Prn:o Clip, $4.50 ea 

PC-16. 16-pin Proto Clip. S4.75 ea. 

PC-24, 24-pm Proto Clips, S8.50 ea. ^ 




CALCULATOR CHIPS AND DRIVERS 



MM 5725 
DM75491 

MM5736 

DM75492 
MM5733 

DMBB64 
DM8865 

MM531I 
HH5312 

MM5313 
MM5314 
MM 53 16 
CT7001 



8 DIGIT 4 FUNCTION 
SEGMENT DRIVER 
6 DIGIT 4 FUNCTION 
DRIVER FOR 5736 
8 DIGIT 5 FUNCTION 
DRIVER TYPE 1 
DRIVER TYPE 2 

CLOCK CHIPS 

6 DIGIT W/BCD 
4 DIGIT W/BCO 
6 DIGIT W;BCD 
6 DIGIT CLOCK 
ALARM CLOCK 
CAL'CLOCK CHIP 



DIGITAL WATCH READOUT 



HP-5082-7300 

HP 5082-7300 

.3" Do! Matrix type numeric readouts 

with decoder/d'iver/lateh built on the 

Chip. Only 3 bins (BCD in. DP Latch. 

-5v. ground) 

HP 5082 7300 



S5.95 



HP 5002 7304 

-1 version ol 7300 4.95 



%':W 



1K"x1H" XFMERS 

That were designed for clock lype ap- 
plications. 1 1 Vac primary @ 60 Hz. 
Sacondaries; 8-10 Vac @ 

300 mA-200 mA 
50 Vac @ 30 mA-50 mA 
Excellent for miniature power supplies 
8 gas discharge displays 



P.C. Mount 



SPECIAL 



S.99 




1/16 VECTOR BOARD 



0.1" Hole Spacing P-Pallern 
Part No Length Wideth 



Price 
9 20-49 



PHENOLIC 


64P44 062XXXP 


4.50 


li 50 




169IM4 02XXXP 


4.50 


17.00 


EPOXY 


64P44 062 


4.50 


6.50 


GLASS 


84P44 062 


4.50 


8.50 




169P44 052 


4.50 


17,00 




169P84 062 


8.50 


17.00 


EPOXY GLASS 


169P44 062C1 


4.50 


17.00 


rnpPFRriAD 









VECTOR WRITING PENCIL 




Veclor Wiring Pen:ilP1 73 consists ol a Hand held leatherweiglil (under one 
ounce] lool wliir.tr is used to guide end v/rap insulated wire, fed oft a 
seil-contained rootaceaOle bobbin, onto component leads of terminals instal- 
led oo pre-puoched "P" Pattern VeciorOord'. Coonectioos beiweea lire 
wrapped wire and component leads, pads or terminals are made by soldering. 
Complele wild 250 FT nl red wire. $9.50 ea. 



REPLACEMENT WIRE— BOBBINS FOR WIRING PENCIL 
(Green) 



W36-3-A-Pkg. 3 
W36-3-BPkg. 3 
W36-3-C»Pkg. 3 
W36-3-D-Pkg. 3 



IRedl 
(Clear) 
(Blue) 



$2.40 
S2.40 
S2.40 
S2.40 



9V BATTERY CLIP 

STANDARD CUP 
FOR USE WITH 3V 
TRANSISTOR BATTERIES 
WITH 4" LEADS 



(gj^V 



9/$. 95 



TERMINAL STRIPS 

THREE TERMINAL 

STRIPS. WITH CENTER 

TERMINAL USED FOR MOUNTING US 15/S1.00 




AMP TERMINAL PINS 

TERMINAL PINS FOR 
MOUNTING COMPONENTS 
ALSO PERFECT FOR USE 
WITH BOARD CONNECTORS 
AND SUBASSEMBLIES 



MICROPROCESSOR COMPONENTS 



JAMES ELECTRONICS IS PROUD TO ANNOUCE. FOR THE FIRST TIME EVER TO THE ELEC- 
TRONIC HOBBIEST . . .FROM AMERICAN MICRO DEVICES. 

8080A $39.95 



] AND 8008 SUPPORT COMPONENTS 



74LS138 DECODER PERFECT FOR DECODING THE THREE 
B008 STATE LINES INTO 8 USEABLE LINES FOR ADDRESS 
LATCHING S3.98 

8212 8 BIT INPUT OUTPUT PORT DIRECTLY INTERFACES 
WITH THE 8390 TO PROVIDE I'O INTERFACE S5.75 



2504 
2518 

2519 
2524 
2525 
2527 
2529 
2532 
2533 
3341 
74LS670 

AY-5-1013 



CPU'S 

8 BIT CPU 

SUPER 8008 
4 BIT 8060 

1024 DYNAMIC 
HEX 32 BIT 
HEX 40 BIT 
512 DYNAMIC 
1024 DYNAMIC 
DUAL 256 BIT 
DUAL 512 BIT 
QUAD 80 BIT 
1024 STATIC 
FIFO 
16X4 REG 

UARTS 
20K BAOD 

ROM'S 
CHAR. GEN 
RANDOM B'TS 



519,95 
39.95 
39.95 



2101 
2102 
21Q7 



RAM'S 

256X1 

1024X1 

256X1 

1024X1 

4096X1 

256X4 

1024X1 

16X4 

256X4 

256X4 

16X4 

1024X1 

1024X1 

256X1 

204BX1 

PROMS 
2048 
2048 
32X8 
1024 



STATIC 

DYNAMIC 

STATIC 

STATIC 

DYNAMIC 

STATIC 

MNOS 

STATIC 

STATIC 

STATIC 

STATIC 

STATIC 

STATIC 

STATIC 

DYNAMIC 

FAMOS 
FAMOS 

BIPOLAR 
STATIC 



S2.25 
6.95 
6.95 



ACCESSORIES 
J 



JOLT 159.95 




The JOLT system consists fit a set ol modular rmc- 

roconirjuier boards which cm je used singly or tied lo- 
gelher to produce any desired microcomputer systen 



JOLT INCLUDES SOFTWARE. HARDWARE AND ASSEM- 
BLY MANUALS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT. 
S159.95 in kit 1:rm . . . S249 assembled. 
alone constitutes a viable computer system complete with 
central processor. I/O, interrupts, timer, read-write mem- 
ory, and a complete software debug monitor in read-only- 



figuration, Them 



n syslr'i: 



.■:CPU '.yy-ri. which memory. 



JOLT SYSTEM DESCRIPTION 

JOLT RAM Card — Fully static 4.096 bytes ol RAM with 1 
microsecond access time and on-board tfeaKJfnfi Hard- 
ware and assembly manual;, mcuded AVAILABLE FDR 
IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT. $199.95 kit . . S2B5 assem- 
bled. 

JDLT Pawer Supply — Operates al --5. - 12 and -10 
voltages. Supports JOLT CPU, 4k bytes ol RAM and JOLT 
I/O card — or, CPU and 8 1/0 cards. Manuals included. 
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT. $99.95 kit. S145 
assembled. 

JOLT Accessory Bag — Cc-nti'ir. nKiughi tiardwareto con- 
ned one JOLT card to another. Such necessary Hums, ?s Mat 
cable, connectors, cord spaces, ha'dware. elc AVAILABLE 
FOR IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT. S39.95. 



JDLT I/O Card (Peripheral Interface Adapter) —2 PIA LSI 
chips. 32 I/O lines, four interrupt lines, on-board decoding 
and Standard TTL drive. Fully programmable, Manuals in- 
cluded. AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT. S95.50 
kil . . . S140 assembled. 

JDLT Universal Card — Same size [4'i" x 7"), same lorm 
factor as olhei JOLT cards Completely blank, drilled to 
accept 14 . 16, 24 or 40 pin sockets. Used for additional 
user memory or I/O control panels. TV inleilnces, 
keyboards. LEDs. or other interlace logic. AVAILABLE FOR 
IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT. S24 .95 
JOLT + 5V Booster Option — Fits onto JOLT Power Supply 
card. SupnortsCPU, 16k bytes of RAM —or, CPU and 8k 
bylns RAM and B l.'O cards — or. CPU anil 4k bytes RAM 
and 16 I'O can!; Manuals included. AVAILABLE FOR IM- 
MEDIATE SHIPMENT. S24.95 



MULTIPURPOSE KEYBOARDS 





AWG 

30 AWG 
30 AWG 
30 AWG 
30 AWG 
30 AWG 
30 AWG 



COLOR 

WHITE 

YELLOW 

RED 

GREEN 

BLUE 

BLACK 



WIRE WRAP WIRE 

25 FT. MIN. 50 FT. 

S2.10 S2.75 



tOC FT 

S3. 50 

3,50 
3 50 
3.50 
3.50 

3.50 



24.00 
24.00 
24,00 
24,00 



STANDARD WIRE 



25 FT MIN 50 FT 



GREEN S3. 25 

WHITE $7.53 

BLACK S1.90 



54.30 
S3. 40 
S2.55 



TO ORDER: SPECIFY GUAG: COLOR AND FOOTAGE |25 FOOT MINIMUM) 



COLOfl 25 FT MIN 

RED SI. 55 

GREEN 51.45 

WHITE S1.25 

BLACK SI. 25 



50 FT 
S2.05 
$1.90 
SI. 65 
SI. 65 



6' 2 CONDUCTOR POWER 
CORDS 125V @5A 



3/1$ 



17237 
17238 
17239 



= THREE CONDUCTOR POWER SUPPLY CORDS = 
TH AWG 0.0. RATING 

18(41X34) 2G5 '250W 

10A-125V 
18(41X35) .253 '250W 

10A-125V 
18(41X34] 265 1250W 

10A-125V 
16(41X34) .253 1250W 

10A-125V 
16(41X34) .253 1250W 

10A-125V 



GREY 1.2. 

BLACK Special .99 c 

GREY 1 .31 

BLACK .5! 



JE SERIES KITS 



Satisfaction Guaranteed. $5.00 Min. Order. U.S. Funds. 

California Residents — Add 6% Sales Tax 

Write for FREE 1976 Catalog - Data Sheets .254 each 

P.O. BOX 822, BELMONT, CA. 94002 
PHONE ORDERS - (415) 592-8097 



JE801 DVM 

ill 

k 




The JE801 is a Ihree and one halt digil. auto polarity 
digital voltmeter, in a kit lorm. II Features several 
oplions not available in any commercial digital vol- 
tmeter. Its low cost is perhaps the most imrjortanl 
feature, which is achieved by ottering it in a kit lorm. 
A kil allows the unit to be used by small OEMs 
where cost etlectiveness is an important factor, and 
by the lobbyist who has lo be concerned with cost 
The onitalso features on card regulators, allowing it 
lo be operated off a single pljs and minus fifteen 
rail, unregulated powei supply. The unit has a 
small size ol Ihree inches widih. three and three 
quarters ol an inch lenglh, and one and a quarter 



inch heijhl 

$39.95 Per Kit printed circuit board 



JE803 PROBE 



TTL f)TL. RTL, CMOS 
1 ILOW! (i IPULSEI p Tl! 




$9.95 Per Kit 

printed circuit board 



JE804, JE805 supplies 



ii 



THE JE804 AND JEB05 ARE POWER 
SUPPLIES MOUNTED ON A 1 11 x 3 1 ' PC 
BOARD. THEY ARE AVAILABLE IN =5@ 
300 mA. =6 @ 250 mA, ±12 @ 100 
mA. SPECIFY VOLTAGE WHEN ORDER- 
ING. 



$9.95 per kit 



JE700 CLOCK 




The JE700 is a low cost digital clock, but 
is a very high quality unil. The unit fea- 
tures a simulated walnul case with di- 
mensions of 6" x2'/i" x 1", li utilizes a 
MAN72 high brightness readout, and the 
MM5314 clock chip. S19.95 

13 or ?4 Hour 

115 VAC- 
SI 9.95 per kit. 



WALL OR TV DIGITAL CLOCK 

12 or 24 Hour 115 Vac 
25' VIEWING DISTANCE 



6 Digit 

LED DISPLAY 

I4I DL747 (2) MAN 



WALNUT CASE .^"W " KIT-AII Comp, 8 Case S34.95 

6"x3"<1" Wired & Assembled $39.95 




JE010 CALC. 



)r fixed mo-place add m 



^^^ 



$12.95 



ELECTRONIC ROULETTE 



Complete kit 
with all 
components 
case and 
transformer. 

BOUlllli \ 



A 56 page book on the facts 

of Roulette included. $29.95 Per Kit 




ELECTRONIC CRAPS 




Complete kit 
with all 
components 
case and 
transformer. 



<X2' 







A 56 page book on the facts 

of Craps included. $19.95 Per Kit 



Sphere 
Rolls into Town 



The show was 
resounding success . . . 



On a recent Friday evening the chaps 
from Sphere demonstrated their system to 
about 50 interested computer hobbyists at a 
downtown Boston Holiday Inn. 

Despite an almost incredible schedule, a 
good show was put on. Mike Wise, the 
president of Sphere, was rocking a little after 
several days of going almost 24 hours a day 
. . . the caravan had driven in from Toronto 
that day! . . . and it was an every day a 
different city deal. 

The product was certainly impressive . . . 
a computer built into a box the size of a 
video display and keyboard unit. That long 
row of switches and LEDs on most CPUs has 
been replaced by a little PROM software 
chip which permits programming to be done 
via the keyboard. 

It was most pleasant to see the system 
turned on and come up ready to be used. 
The operating system is all built right into it 
in the PROM so not even a short loading 
program has to be switched in to get it 
working! 

The Sphere system consists of the 
Motorola M6800 microprocessor with an 
ASCII keyboard and interface to the 6800, a 
video display generator system, the Motorola 
loader, small operating system and monitor. 
At $860 for the complete kit this is quite a 
package. 

The Sphere requires an external television 
set for a monitor. It will feed video to this 
monitor, or a few parts can be added to the 
video output board which will generate a 
signal which the TV set can pick up via its 
antenna terminals. Some problems with FCC 
licensing of transmitters seems to have held 
up the supplying of these parts with the kit 
itself. 

Mike told the group that they are well 
along with a BASIC language package for the 
system and that they expect to have a 
library of about 4000 business oriented 
programs available. 

The Sphere literature stresses the business 
applications of the system, showing it in use 
in offices, stores, homes, banks, laboratories, 



etc. Since this is the major potential for 
small computer systems this is certainly an 
enlightened approach. As more and more 
computer stores open up around the country 
and literature such as that provided by 
Sphere is gotten out to the owners of small 
businesses, sales of these systems cannot be 
but astronomical. 

The Sphere sales literature is extremely 
well done . . . and best of all, it is written for 
the businessman, not the computer expert. 
Computer stores should have little trouble in 
selling this approach to the business world. 
The utter simplicity of the system will 
certainly appeal to the businessman. 

The PROM has quite a repertoire and 
includes an editor, assembler, debugger, 
command language, cassette loader, dumper 
and utilities ... all on a 1 KB chip! Since the 
programming is on a PROM, this still leaves 
the entire 4 KB RAM available for the user 
and doesn't tie 1 KB of it up just with the 
operating system ... a big plus even at 
today's low memory prices. 

The PROM operating system permits 
rather sophisticated editing techniques 
including movement of the cursor with ease, 
scrolling of the lines of text through the 
buffer memory, delete lines, add lines, 
modify lines, etc. The system also permits 
the keyboard to be used for entering pro- 
grams into the computer using hexadecimal 
or octal notation. It also enables the user to 
look at any address and see what is there . . . 
change the data if desired ... and then scan 
on through succeeding bytes. Not a bad 
bunch of programs to be crammed into one 
1024 byte PROM! 

Another plus is the comprehensive Sphere 
book of instructions. It is not only 
amazingly complete (particularly when you 
consider how short a time the company has 
been in existance), it is also written in 
language which is not beyond the relative 
newcomer to computers. 

In all, the show was a resounding success 
in Boston and a tired, but happy Sphere 
crew packed up for the next night in New 
York.- 



80 



THE SUNTRONIX MODEL KBD IV Keyboard is ideally suited as a general 
purpose ASCII Keyboard for data terminal applications. This keyboard more than 
meets the needs of the data entry market for long life and reliability. 

The KBD IV utilizes the 2 key rollover solid state read-only MOS memory allowing 
encoded outputs to be strobed out as each key is depressed. A second key may be 
depressed concurrent with the first, but the second key encoded output will not be 
strobed out until the first key is released. This feature prevents ambiguity of 
character codes as a result of two keys being depressed in rapid succession. 

ELECTRICAL SPECIFICATIONS: 

* Voltage requirements - +5.0 V and -12.0 V 

* Power consumption — less than 200 mw 

* Outputs - standard ASCI I; 7 bits + strobe 

* Negative or positive logic output, jumper selectable 

* Output connector — standard 14 pin DIP IC socket 

* Three modes — normal, shift & control 

MECHANICAL FEATURES: 
*Size- 1 2 1 /4" x 6%" x 2 1 / 2 " 

* High grade glass epoxy PC board 

* Keyboard ROM SMC KR2376 40 pin MOS 

* Electronic shift lock, not mechanical 

* Keyswitches one integral assembly, not individual keys 

* Switches have four-finger phosphor bronze contacts with gold inlay 

* Keycaps are 2-shot high strength ABS plastic 

These keyboards are available off the shelf in two forms — fully assembled and 
unconditionally warranteed against defects in manufacture or materials for a full 
ninety days, or in the more economical kit version. Kit parts are fully warranteed 
against defects in manufacture or materials for a full ninety days. In either version, 
full instructions are supplied for operation, including specifications and data sheets. 
In the kit version, complete instructions are supplied for the assembly process. A 
reasonably competent technician can completely assemble and test this keyboard in 
one evening. All parts needed are included. 



INTRODUCTORY PRICES 

Factory assembled - $74.95 ppd. 
Complete kit, w /instructions - $64.95 ppd 
Please add $1.00 handling per order. 
Minimum order — $5.00 





auirrafliM mm 



uvi 



360 Merrimack St., Lawrence, Mass. 01843 
(Telephone orders: 617-688-0751 603-434-4644) 



81 



WORDS FROM A READER 



NEVER YOU MIND 







OCCUPANT 
BOX BYTE 
PETERBOROUGH 
NH 03458 



Once that happy time 
comes to the ham, linking 
home brew computer 
terminals to their Teletype 
set-ups will combine two 
of the most fascinating 
hobbies ever conceived by 
the minds of men. 



TASTY BUT NOT FILLING 

A friend of mine showed me the first 
three issues of your new magazine. I found 
them extremely tasty but not at all filling; 
please send more BYTEs as soon as possible! 
(I have sent my subscription order in.) 

I have just one "bit" of criticism: Please 
adopt some designations for end-of-article, 
continued-on-next-page, and continued-on- 
page-n! Their use is not essential, but my 
ETP (English Text Processor) has become 
used to finding them (it's a heuristic routine, 
you see) and often wastes considerable time 
when they're not there. 

Possibilities include the IBM end-of-file 
code, /*, for end-of-article, or the ASCII 
abbreviations ETX (end of text) and FF 
(form feed) for end-of-article and go-to- 
next-page, respectively. And FF nn could be 
used for go-to-pagc-nn. Alternatively, some 
common notations from assembly languages 
could be used: END, BR *+1 (go to next 
page), and BR nn (go to page nn); but on 
second thought, these would probably not 
be as easily recognized by as many people as 
the ASCII symbols. 

Hope to see your next issue in my 
mailbox. Meanwhile, I'm going to try to 
persuade the proprietors of my college book- 
store to carry BYTE. Wish me luck! 

Jamie E. Hanrahan 
Fullerton CA 

Regarding end of file marks, you should 
notice by now that articles in BYTE's latest 
issues are terminated by a typeset "■". 
We've considered other things ranging from 
an "EOF" to an END statement. This 
convention of the black square is simple and 
effective, so it became the obvious choice. 



Your answer to a reader's question on the 
difference between a "bit" and a "byte" and 
a "word" was pretty good, except for the 
definition of a word. The difference is made 
more apparent if we look at the evolution of 
computers. 

Early, so-called first generation machines 
generally performed arithmetic operations 
only in accumulators, which were of a fixed 
bit length. This length was called a word. 
Since all operations were done in accumula- 
tors, each storage address usually had the 
same bit length, so a word was also the 
number of bits obtained in one storage 
reference. 

In the second generation, systems were 
classified as either business or scientific. The 
scientific machines generally used binary 
arithmetic, performed in accumulators as 
before. Business systems, however, did not 
have accumulators, but used storage-to- 
storage arithmetic. In this system, the con- 
tents of two storage locations were input to 
the ALU, and the ALU output was stored in 
one of those locations. These machines were 
of variable word length, in that a non-data 
bit in each storage location was used to mark 
the end of a word. Since most of these 
machines used 6 data bits and each of the 64 
bit combinations had an assigned graphic, 
each storage location was usually referred to 
as a character. 

The IBM 360 series was the first of the 
third generation, and was designed to be 
general purpose; that is, either scientific 
(binary) or business (decimal). Its general 
purpose registers (which could be used as 
binary accumulators or index registers or 
memory address registers) were 32 bits long, 
so this was called a word. The floating point 
accumulators were 64 bits, or a double 
word. Thus the binary arithmetic instruc- 
tions could obtain, in one storage reference, 
either a double word, a word, or a half word 
(16 bits). Decimal arithmetic was performed 
storage-to-storage, with the instruction con- 
taining the length of each operand. Since the 
term word was used to refer to the register 
(accumulator) length, a new term was 
needed to refer to the number of bits 
contained at any single storage address; IBM 
chose the term byte, and in the 360 series a 
byte was 8 bits. 

In most micros to date, the number of 
bits at one storage address (a byte) is the 
same as the length of the accumulator 
(word), so the terms are interchangablc, 
whether it is 8, 12, or 16 bits. But who 
knows what the future will bring? 

R. S. Downs 
Raleigh NC 



82 



OSCILLOSCOPE GRAPHICS 
INTERFACE 

The Oscilloscope Graphics Interface in 
the October 1975 BYTE is a useful addition 
to any microcomputer system. However, if 
the display ever got really busy, it looks like 
the screen would be a mess. This is due to 
the fact that when a Set X or Set Y is used, 
the scan continues from that point on down 
the screen. Rapid access to the 2102's, as in 
any sort of "moving picture" presentation, 
would never let the trace get down the 
screen very far. 

A simple modification which would alle- 
viate the situation would be to have two 
counters feeding the 2102 address lines, one 
free running at 100 kHz all the time, and the 
other under program control. With three 
state buffers (i.e., 8097's), the memory write 
of new information would gate only the 
desired address to the 2102's, after which 
the other address (from the 100 kHz 
counters) would again be applied to the 
2102's. Thus the scan would pick up shortly 
after the point where it left off. 

For readers with an infrequent screen 
update, this is not necessary, but for those 
with fast processors doing frequent display 
modification, this approach should work 
nicely. 

Roger Frank 
Englewood CO 

You are right, Roger, and the hardware 
modification you propose will correct the 
situation. Another way to avoid running into 
that problem is to use appropriate software: 
Simply, do full screen updates when changes 
are desired. 



THOUGHTS ON TELETYPE 

You have asked for comments from 
BYTE subscribers about themselves, and 
anything else that may come to mind, and 
here are my thoughts on what I had hoped 
for and anticipate in your magazine. 

First off, I am a ham, W2ZPW, for some 
26 years. That automatically signifies a 
General class ticket or better, and General 
class it is. I am not interested in any higher 
class of license for a very good reason. I am 
entirely deaf. Any additional frequencies 
earned with a higher class of license would 
require hearing for phone or CW (Con- 
tinuous Wave or Morse code for anyone who 
just immigrated from the Moon). 

My sole interest in ham radio is in 
Teletype. Since computer technology runs 
closely parallel, in many ways, with radio 




Now that you've got your computer, sit 
down and share a byte with a friend. 
TRI-TEK Acoustic Couplers and Data 
Modems can get your system on speaking 
terms with your buddies' systems for the 
price of a phone call. 

Trade programs, get extra computing power, 

combine memory capacity or play computer 

games across town or across the country — 

anywhere you can get to a phone. 

If you don't have a computer, turn a 

TELETYPE or video display into a remote 

ftPT VflllD \o) Tr c rF'(5 terminal which will talk to any time-share- 

II K J_5) JJ, JJ, gy system found in most large cities or at 

universities. Form your own club, make one 

1|*L TUt U computer and share it over the phone lines 

I UUL I lLl\ with your terminal. 

Hundreds of these quality units are in service in industry and business; 
and TRI-TEK is now making them available to the small system users in 
factory-assembled or kit form. 

Models available to do your job in TTY, RS232 or DAA, Bell 130. 

Write for data sheets or use the reader service sheet. 

12 BIT MICRO PROCESSOR CHIP - 

IM6100 12 bit CPU recognizes PDP8/E, MP-12 and D-1 12 Instruction set. 

FEATURES: silicon gate C MOS, single supply, or chip clock, power-on 
initialize. All interface control signals produced in CPU. 
DMA, interrupt, dedicated control panel, direct/indirect/ 
auto indexed MEM addressing 60.00 

TRANSPARENT CONTROL PANEL CHIPS - 

Allows IM6100 to free itself of control panel supervision. Control panel 
functions can be increased simply by adding additional control panel RAM, 
easing the main memory useage. 
IM5603 P ROM/IM5501 RAM set 21 .00 

SET OF DATA FOR IM6100 SYSTEM 4.00 

« — «,- ^jv7tRi-tek, mc 

flyers of new and \t/ 6522 N 43rd Avenue 

surplus electronic \ / .„., 

components. \/ Glendale AZ 85301 






solderless 

plug-in 
tie-points. 



fer 



P istr striP s 




Super-Versatile™ 

building blocks for experimental circuits 



Universal .10" matrices of 
solderless, plug-in tie points 

For all DIP'S and discretes 
with leads to .032" dia. 



Interconnect with any solid 
wire up to No. 20 A.W.G. 

Nickel-silver terminals 



ORDER BY PART NUMBER 
923277 distribution strip . . .$2.50 
923261 terminal strip $12.50 



Create custom breadboards in minutes 
with these new instant-mount strips. 
DISTRIBUTION STRIP (top) contains 
2 continuous buses of 12 connected 4- 
tie-point terminals. Size: 6.5" by .35". 
TERMINAL STRIP contains 128 5-tie- 
point terminals, holds up to nine 14-pin 
DIP'S. Size: 6.5" by 1.36". Integral, 
non-shorting, instant-mounting back- 
ing permits quick build-up of special 
breadboards using any mix of strips. 

Other models available. 



We honor M.C. and B.A.C. charges. 

Add sales tax on OH and CA orders. 

(F.O.B. Painesvilleon company P.O.'s.) 

Dealer inquiries invited 



Add — »- 
fees from 
this chart. 



SHIPPING/HANDLING 



Up to $10.00 SI. 00 

S10.01 toS25.00 1.50 
25.01 to 50.00 2.00 



.70 

80 




All products guaranteed to meet or exceed published specifications 

AP PRODUCTS INCORPORATED 

Box 110-G* Painesville, OH 44077* 216/354-2101 



83 



frequency communications, there is no 
doubt in my mind but that a goodly 
proportion of articles to come will be 
slanted toward the amateur radio enthusiast. 
Considering this possibility it is certainly not 
too much to hope for to ultimately see a 
simple and inexpensive commercial ASCI I- 
to-Baudot converter that could readily be 
used to actuate the widely used Baudot 
coded amateur Teletype equipment. 

Use of ASCII code is being pondered and 
will no doubt soon be written into FCC 
regulations. But even so, those amateurs who 
have RTTY using five level Baudot equip- 
ment will mostly continue to do so because 
it is in virtual universal use. It is my 
considered opinion that ASCII will take hold 
to a greater degree than 100 WPM Baudot 
did, but by means of soon to be devised 
converters (of a simple and inexpensive 
nature, it is hoped), switching from Baudot 
to ASCII, and back again, will become 
virtually universal. 

Once that happy time comes to the ham, 
linking home brew computer terminals to 
their Teletype set-ups will combine two of 
the most fascinating hobbies ever conceived 
by the minds of men (and women). It then 
becomes possible to visualize a means of 
communication combining cable and radio. 
Where more than one mini-computer system 
is linked by way of telephone lines it will 
become a simple matter to "patch" the 
phone line into a radio station and rebroad- 
cast the computer output to form input to 
another computer repatched back into a 
phone system elsewhere at a distant point. It 
opens entirely new vistas that may take a bit 
of deep thinking to even visualize at this 
point. The possibilities are so broad in scope 
that I hate to even begin to enumerate them. 

In view of the FCC restriction made upon 
hams to use only five level Baudot code, 
most of the amateur equipment in current 
use is American made Teletype Corporation 
equipment. Some model 14, mostly tape 
gear, is used. Model 1 5 printers and the 
companion model 19 sets combine model 
1 4 and 1 5 to form a composite set that will 
either produce coded tape for transmission 
(but not be received from on the air) or 
print out on rolls copy that is received or 
sent. The model 15 printers are often obtain- 
able for as low as $25 and rarely higher than 
$100 for the model 19. 

The ultimate in Baudot equipment at 
present is the model 28. Obsolete as they 
may be where computers are concerned, 
they are highly prized for ham use. There are 
few model 33 and 35 Teletype machines 
amongst amateurs but since they are 
designed for ASCII use they require some 
means of conversion to Baudot coding. 



As soon as the FCC removes the restric- 
tion against ASCII coding, a magazine such 
as BYTE will then become the obvious 
vehicle for guiding both amateur radio and 
computer enthusiasts to combine their 
hobbies for the greatest enjoyment imagin- 
able. The possibilities are endless and limited 
only by the imagination. 

Mack O. Santer 
Brooklyn NY 

It looks like there is plenty of possibility 
for the synthesis of amateur radio and 
computer activities. It will be interesting to 
see just what people actually do with this 
novel application of computers. BYTE will 
report on developments in the radio /com- 
puter field as they occur. 



QUESTIONS - 

STAR TREK, SURPLUS 

CHIPS 

In the first three issues of BYTE, which 
are just what the doctor ordered, you've 
mentioned the game of Star Trek a number 
of times in your columns. I am a Star Trek 
freak with an IBM 1130 at my disposal. Is 
there any way of obtaining a Star Trek 
program written in Fortran IV or other 
information on the subject? 

In the near future, will any companies be 
marketing a 16 bit computer utilizing 
National's IMP-16 CPU chip? 

What companies carry used or surplus 
Teletype machines in working condition at 
reasonable prices? Perhaps your magazine 
can do a series on the surplus market place. 

In the first issue you published a review 
of the RGS 008A computer by James 
Hogenson. I found this very informative and 
am looking forward to more such reviews, 
perhaps on the Altair 8800 or SWTPC's new 
Motorola based 6800 computer system. 

Looking forward to more fantastic issues 
of BYTE. 

Richard Wexler 
Texarkana TX 



There is a BASIC version of Star Trek 
called Space War listed in complete detail in 
101 BASIC Games, published by DEC in 
Maynard MA. See the book review in this 
issue. The closest product to an IMP-16 yet 
available is the National PACE chip, its LSI 
single-chip successor. 

Continued on page 86 



84 



[ 



5% OFF OH ORDERS OVER S50.00 
1 0% OFF ON ORDERS OVER $1 00.00 
15% OFF ON ORDERS OVER $250.00 



TTL 
















7451 


.17 


74154 


1.25 


7400 $ 


.14 


7453 


.17 


74155 


1.07 


7401 


.16 


7454 


.17 


74156 


1.07 


7402 


.15 


7460 


.17 


74157 


.99 


7403 


.16 


7464 


.35 


74158 


1.79 


7404 


.19 


7465 


.35 


74160 


1.39 


7405 


.19 


7470 


.30 


74161 


1.25 


7406 


.35 


7472 


.30 


74162 


1.49 


7407 


.35 


7473 


.35 


74163 


1.39 


7408 


.18 


7474 


.35 


74164 


1.59 


7409 


.19 


7475 


.57 


74165 


1.59 


7410 


.16 


7476 


.39 


74166 


1.49 


7411 


.25 


7483 


.79 


74170 


2.30 


7413 


.55 


7485 


1.10 


74173 


1.49 


7416 


.35 


7486 


.40 


74174 


1.62 


7417 


.35 


7489 


2.48 


74175 


1.39 


7420 


.16 


7490 


.59 


74176 


.89 


7422 


.26 


7491 


.97 


74177 


.84 


7423 


.29 


7492 


.71 


74180 


.90 


7425 


.27 


7493 


.60 


74181 


2.98 


7426 


.26 


7494 


.94 


74182 


.79 


7427 


.29 


7495 


.79 


74184 


2.29 


7430 


.20 


74% 


.79 


74185 


2.29 


7432 


.23 


74100 


1.30 


74187 


5.95 


7437 


.35 


74105 


.44 


74190 


1.35 


7436 


.35 


74107 


.40 


74191 


1.35 


7440 


.17 


74121 


.42 


74192 


1.25 


7441 


.98 


74122 


.45 


74193 


1.19 


7442 


.77 


74123 


.85 


74194 


1.25 


7443 


.87 


74125 


.54 


74195 


.89 


7444 


.87 


74126 


.63 


74196 


1.25 


7445 


.89 


74141 


1.04 


74197 


.89 


7446 


.93 


74145 


1.04 


74198 


1.79 


7447 


.89 


74150 


.97 


74199 


1.79 


7448 


1.04 


74151 


.79 


74200 


5.90 


7450 


.17 


74153 


.99 






LOW POWER TTL 






74L00 


. .25 


74L51 


S .29 


75L90 


S1.49 


74L02 


.25 


74L55 


.33 


74L91 


1.45 


74L03 


.25 


74L71 


.25 


74L93 


1.69 


74104 


.25 


74L72 


.39 


74L95 


1.69 


74L06 


.25 


74L73 


.49 


74L98 


2.79 


74L10 


.25 


74L74 


.49 


7-11.164 


2.79 


74L20 


.33 


74178 


.79 


74L165 


2.79 


74130 


.33 


74L85 


1.25 






74L42 


1.49 


74L86 


.69 







HIGH SPEED TTL 



74H00 $ . 

74H01 

74H04 

74H08 

74H10 

74H11 

74H20 



74H21 
74H22 
74H30 
74H40 
74H50 
74H52 
74H53 



S .25 



8000 SERIES 



8091 
8092 
8095 
8121 
8123 
8130 
8200 
8210 



S .53 

.53 
1.25 

.80 
1.43 
1.97 
2.33 
2.79 



8214 
8220 
8230 
8520 
8551 
8552 
8554 
8810 



$1.49 
1.49 
2.19 
1.16 
1.39 
2.19 
2.19 
.69 



9000 SERIES 



9002 
9301 



$ .35 



9309 
9312 



$ .79 

.79 



8811 
8812 
8822 
8830 
8831 
8836 
8880 
8263 
8267 



9601 
9602 



J 



74H55 
74H60 
74H61 
74H62 
74H72 
74H74 
74H76 



$ .59 

.89 
2.19 
2.19 
2.19 

.25 
1.19 
5.79 
2.59 



JANUARY SPECIALS 



7447 


BCD to 7 seg. decoder drvr. 


7483 


4 bit binary full adder 


7490 


Decade counter 


74151 


8 channel multiplexer 


74153 


Dual 4 input multiplexer 


74180 


Parity generator checker 


74193 


Binary up/down counter 


9602 


Dual one shot .69 


75C00 


Quad 2 input NAND gate (CMOS) 


LINEAR 


301 


Hi perf op amp mDI 


339 


Quad comparator DIP 


320T 


5V neg. V reg. 5V 


320T 


12V neg. V reg. 12V 


340T 


12V neg. V reg. 5V 


340T 


15V pos. V reg. 15V 





MEMORIES 




CLOCK CHIPS 


$ .69 


2102 


$2.65 


5311 $3.95 


.59 


2102-1 


2.75 


5312 2.95 


.45 


2102-2 


2.75 


5314 3.95 


.59 


82S23 


3.25 


5316 4.15 


.79 


F93410 




CALCULATOR CHIPS 


.79 
.99 


256 bit RAM 


2.19 


5005 $1.69 



.25 
1.29 
1.39 
1.39 
1.39 
1.39 



8038 FUNCTION GENERATOR 

Voltage controlled oscillator — sine, square, triangular 
output. 16 pin DIP with data $3.95 

7001 CLOCK CHIP 

4-6 digit, 12-24 hr. alarm, timer and date circuits — with 
data $6.95 

DVM CHIP 4% DIGIT 

MM5330 — P channel device provides all logic for 4Vi digit 
volt meter. 16 pin DIP with data $1 4.95 



* 



PULTRUN V.I.P. QUARTZ REGULATED 
LED WATCH 



MEN's 5 function — hours, minutes, month, 

day and seconds. 
Latest slim-line design (pros. W thick) 
Four year calendar — requires setting only 

on February 29th. 
One year warranty against all defects in 

material and workmanship. 
Built-in phototransistor adjusts intensity of 

display. 
Gold tone — with adjustable mesh strap. 



$99.50 

+$1.50 Shipping 

& Handling 

Usual 10% Discount 

Applies 




Data sheets on request. With order add 
$.30 for items less than $1.00 ea. 



LED's 

MV10B 

MV50 

MV5020 



ME-I 

MAN1 

MAN2 

MAN4 

MAN5 

MAM, 

MAN7 

MAN3 

MANS 
MAN66 
MCT2 



Red TO 18 
Axial leads 
Jumbo Vis. Red 
(Red Dome) 
Jumbo Vis. Red 
(Clear Dome) 
Infra red dill, dome 
Red 7 seg. .270" 
Red alpha num .32" 
Red 7 seg. .190" 
Green 7 seg. .270" 
.6" high solid seg. 
Red 7 seg. .270" 
Red 7 seg. .127" 
straight pins 
Yellow 7 seg. .270" 
.6" high spaced seg. 
Opto-iso transistor 



2.19 
4.39 
1.95 
3.45 
4.25 
1.19 

.29 
3.45 
3.75 



1101 
1103 
1702A 

2102-2 

5203 

5260 

5261 

5262 

7489 

8223 

74200 



256 bit RAM MOS 
1024 bit RAM MOS 
2048 bit static PROM 
UV eras. 

1024 bit static RAM 
2048 bit UV eras PROM 
1024 bit RAM 
1024 bit RAM 
2048 bit RAM 
64 bit ROM TTL 
Programmable ROM 
256 bit RAM tri-state 



t 1.50 
3.95 

17.95 
4.25 

17.95 
2.49 
2.69 
5.95 
2.48 
3.69 
5.90 




MULTIPLE DISPLAYS 

NSN33 3 digit .12" red led 12 pin 

fits IC skt. 

5 digit .11 led magn. lens 

com. cath 

4 digit .11 LED magn. 

lens comm. cath. 

9 digit 7 seg led RH 

dec dr. magn. lens 
SP-425-09 9 digit .25" neon direct 

interface with MOS/LS1, 

180 VDC, 7 seg. 



CALCULATOR » 
CLOCK CHIPS 



5005 

MM5725 

MM5736 

MM5738 

MM5739 

MM5311 

MM5312 

MM5313 



SHIFT REGISTERS 



1024 bit accum. dynamic 

mDIP 

500/512 bit dynamic mDIP 

QUAD 25 bit 



937 
944 
946 



949 
962 
963 




12 DIG 4 fund fix dec 

Same as 5001 exc 

btry power 

12 DIG 4 fuel w/mem 

8 DIG 4 fund chain & dec 

18 pin 6 DIG 4 fund 

8 DIG 5 funct K & mem 

9 DIG 4 fund (btry sur) 
26 pin BCD 6 dig mux 
24 pin 1 pps BCD 

4 dig mux 

28 pin 1 pps BCD 

6 dig mux 

24 pin 6 dig mux 

40 pin alarm 4 dig 



2.79 
2.99 
1.98 
4.45 
5.35 
5.35 
4.45 



4.45 
4.45 
5.39 



320 
322 
324 
339 
340K 

340T 

372 

373 

376 

377 

380 

380-8 

381 

382 

550 

555 

556A 

560 

562 

565 

366 

567 

709 

710 

711 

723 

739 

741 

747 

748 

1304 

1307 

1458 

1800 



7524 

8038 

8864 

75150 

75451 

75452 

75453 

75491 

75492 



: 



LINEAR CIRCUITS 

300 Pos V Reg (super 723) TO-5 $ .71 

301 Hi Perf Op Amp mDIP TO-5 .29 

302 Volt follower TO-5 .53 

304 Neg V Reg TO-5 .80 

305 Pos V Reg TO-5 .71 

307 Op AMP (super 741) mDIP TO-5 .26 

308 Mciro Pwr Op Amp mDIP TO-5 .89 
309K 5V 1A regulator TO-3 1.35 

310 V Follower Op Amp mDIP 1.07 

311 Hi perl V Comp mDIP TO-5 .95 
319 Hi Speed Dual Comp DIP 1.13 

Neg Reg 5.2, 12, 15 TO-3 1.19 

Precision Timer DIP 1.70 

Quad Op Amp DIP 1.52 

Quad Comparator DIP 1.58 
Pos V reg (5V, 6V, 8V, 12V, 

15V, 18V, 24V) TO-3 1.69 
Pos V reg (5V, 6V, 8V, 12V, 

15V, 18V, 24V) TO-220 1.49 

AF-IF Strip detector DIP 2.93 

AM/FM/SSB Strip DIP .53 

Pos V Reg mDIP 2.42 

2w Stereo amp DIP 1.16 

2w Audio Amp DIP 1.13 

.6w Audio Amp mDIP 1.52 

Lo Noise Dual preamp DIP 1.52 

Lo Noise Dual preamp DIP .71 

Prec V Reg DIP .89 

Timer mDIP .89 

Dual 555 Timer DIP 1.49 

Phase Locked Loop DIP 2.48 

Phase Locked Loop DIP 2.48 

Phase Locked Loop DIP TO-5 2.38 

Function Cen mDIP TO-5 2.25 

Tone Decoder mDIP 2.66 

Operational AMP TO-5 or DIP .26 

Hi Speed Volt Comp DIP .35 

Dual Difference Compar DIP .26 

V Reg DIP .62 

Dual Hi Perf Op Amp DEP 1.07 

Comp Op Amp mDIP TO-5 .32 

741 Dual Op Amp DIP or TO-5 .71 

Freq Ad\ 741 mDIP .35 

FM Mulpx Stereo Demod DIP 1.07 

FM Mulpx Stereo Demod DIP .74 

Dual Comp Op Amp mDIP .62 

Stereo multiplexer DIP 2.48 

LH2111 Dual LM 211 V Comp DIP 1.70 

3900 Quad Amplifier DIP .35 

Core Mem Sense AMPL DIP .71 

Voltage contr. osc. DIP 4.25 

9 DIG Led Cath Drvr DIP 2.25 

Dual Line Driver DIP 1.75 

Dual Perepheral Driver mDIP .35 

Dual Peripheral Driver mDIP .35 

(351) Dual Periph Driver mDIP .35 

Quad Seq Driver for LED DIP .71 

Hex Digit driver DIP .80 



satisfaction guaranteed. Shipment will be made via first class mail in U.S., Canada and 
Vlexico within 5 days from receipt of order. Add $.50 to cover shipping and handling 
lor orders under $25.00. Minimum order $5.00. California residents add sales tax. 

INTERNATIONAL ELECTRONICS UNLIMITED 

— P.O. BOX 1708/ MONTEREY, CA. 93940 USA 
>-=J§£ PHONE (408) 659-3171 



NYBBLE 



ROLLING HIS OWN 



At long last one of the things that I have 
wondered about all my life has been defined. 
I refer to your answer to Stephen Holland's 
letter on page 84 of issue 3. You define a 
nybble as half of a byte. 1 am a fisherman 
and had never before known exactly what a 
nybble was. Now will you define stryke? 

All kidding aside, I enjoy the magazine 
greatly. I am a nuts and bolts hardware type 
with a good technical background, first 
phone and amateur extra, and enjoy all the 
articles. The ones on programming are above 
me yet. No experience in that area. So, on 
page 88 I give them all 10 (shades of 
Analog). 

Keep up the good work with a balanced 
magazine that will appeal to all of us for we 
all need to know something about each 
other's areas. 

Roy W. Dancy 
Dothan AL 

A stryke is what happens when lightning 
hits a computer. It gets all shaken up and 
refuses to work. 



I am particularly encouraged to see a 
magazine of this type published; most of the 
other publications available either assume 
the background of an electrical engineer or 
computer science theoretician, or assume no 
background at all. I've always wanted a 
computer of my own, and when the 
"Mark-8" project came along, I jumped at 
the chance to get one. I have it almost 
finished, but have had some problems in 
obtaining simple items like a decent power 
supply at a reasonable price (not trusting my 
electrical theory enough to build my own), 
or attractive paddle switches for a front 
panel. Fortunately I have not been working 
alone, having a partner building another 
Mark-8 along with me; we order our com- 
ponents together and take advantage of 
quantity discounts. 

Your magazine kept my wheels turning 
into the early hours of the morning, 
especially the material on graphics display 
devices. The 8008 is cheap and that is an 
important consideration for anyone on a 
grad student's budget. Perhaps in the future, 
the other chips and kits will come down in 
price and us poor folks will get a chance to 
play with the other stuff. 



A well done Spacewar 
game is one of the most 
interesting strategy and 
hand-eye coordination 
tests ever invented. 



SPACEWAR, 
ANYONE? 

Let me first add a word of appreciation 
to all the others you have received. BYTE is 
a great magazine. Be sure and send me my 
renewal notice when it comes due. 

The other item I would like to bring up is 
Spacewar. This is a game that was played on 
conventional computers 5 years ago. How 
much memory does it take? Do you know 
where I could get a copy of a program of 
one of its versions? 

Stewart Shelton 
Madison WV 

Thank you Stewart. We cannot reel off a 
definite answer on memory requirements for 
Spacewar, but do believe a reasonably com- 
petent Spacewar application is within the 
realm of the home brew computer tech- 
nology as it stands today. We 've seen imple- 
mentations done on minicomputers with less 
than 32 K 1 6-bit words. When we get some 
good articles on this application, you 'II see 
them printed in the pages of BYTE. A well 
done Spacewar game is one of the most 
interesting two-person strategy and hand-eye 
coordination tests ever invented. 



Robert Jones 
Washington DC 

PS, Any chances of an organized project 
to get a hardware text editor, loader, assem- 
bler for 8008 systems? 

It is good to hear that you are getting a 
computer up and running, Robert. An 8008 
will certainly serve you faithfully and 
reliably once you get your system up, 
running and debugged. I may be critical of 
the 8008 at times because it is a machine 
with which I have intimate familiarity: my 
first home brew computer learning 
experience was an 8008. Aside from the 
relatively slow speed of an 8008, it is quite 
capable of executing all the typical home 
brew computer person 's requirements. 



HOUSEKEEPING COMPUTER 

My husband just received his first copy, 
October, of BYTE yesterday, and as usual I 
glanced at it as I brought it in. Surprise! An 
article just for me! Most of his magazines 
don't interest me too much, because their 
articles are too technical. But Richard Gard- 
ner's article was fascinating. We almost 
fought over who got to read the magazine. 



86 



The main reason the article was so 
interesting to me is that that is almost 
exactly our story. We have our own com- 
puter (Altair 8800 with 9K of memory), and 
we have been planning to use it in most of 
the ways you mentioned. Soon I will be 
allowed to put my food planning on the 
computer: recipes, menus, nutritional plan- 
ning, seasonal shopping, etc. I think I'll even 
key it to alternate speedy meals for days 
when dinner starts late. Keith has already 
begun thinking of eventually using it to 
control our interior environment, which will 
be very helpful in maintaining proper storage 
conditions for our year's food supply. I 
think he is even planning to use it to play 
selected music throughout our dream house 
from a central control center to speakers in 
the various rooms. His original plan was to 
develop an information retrieval system, to 
reduce the space required in filing. (We have 
a 4-drawer legal size file cabinet, full, as well 
as many books, notebooks, etc.) And we 
have already been having the neighbor kids 
in playing with the computer. When we get 
the terminal and cassette recorder con- 
nected, our only limit will be the sky (or is it 
the memory?). 

I'm looking forward to hearing more 
about home computers, and would appre- 
ciate help in programming my food pro- 
grams, as I don't know much of the tech- 
nical aspects. 

Carol H. Kendall 
Vernal UT 



LOGICAL INERTIA 

Yes indeed, by all means, instantly enter 
my subscription to your fabulous, fascin- 
ating, incredible magazine. My imagination 
races at the thought of a Klugeharp. TV 
typewriters titilate my thoughts. Do it . . . 
my check is enclosed. 

Allow me to share with you a notice 
posted on the wall of a major computer 
manufacturer I once was associated with: 
Today's computers execute instruc- 
tions in the sub-microsecond range. 
This can cause programs to develop 
considerable logical inertia, making 
HALTS extremely dangerous. The 
following technique is suggested when 
a HALT is necessary: 

Stop HALT 

HALT In case still skidding 
GOTO Stop 

L. E. Staples 
San Antonio TX 

As with all software problems, the solu- 
tion is a mass of instructions. 






in* 

,rv* es 



models 

for fast 

building and 

testing of i 



solderless 

plug-in 
tie-points 




photo 
ACE 227 



On all models... 
/ simply plug in your 
components and inter- 
connect with 22-ga. solid 
wire. All models accept all 
DIP's, TO-5's and discretes 
with leads up to .032" diameter. 
Multiple buses can easily be linked for power and ground distribution, 
reset and clock lines, shift command, etc. Bases: gold-anodized alumi- 
num. Terminals: non-corrosive nickel-silver. Four rubber feet included. 



obsoletes *' 

ordinary 

breadboards 



Order 


ACE 


Tie 


DIP 


No. 


No. 


Board Size 


Price 


No. 


Model No. 


Points 


Capacity 


Buses 


Posts 


(inches) 


Each 


923333 


200-K (kit) 


728 


8 (16's) 


2 


2 


4-9/16x5-9/16 


918.95 


923332 


208 lassem.) 


872 


8 116's) 


8 


2 


4-9/16x5-9/16 


28.95 


923334 


201 -K (kit) 


1032 


12 114s) 


2 


2 


4-9/16x7 


24.95 


923331 


212 (assem.) 


1224 


12(14's) 


8 


2 


4-9/16x7 


34.95 


923326 


218 (assem.) 


1760 


18 114's) 


10 


2 


6-1/2x7-1/8 


46.95 


923325 


227 (assem.) 


2712 


27 (14'sl 


28 


4 


8x9-1/4 


59.95 


923324 


236 (assem.) 


3648 


36 114's) 


36 


4 


10-1/4x9-1/4 


79.95 



We honor M.C. and B.A.C. charges. 

Add sales tax on OH and CA orders. 

(F.O.B. Painesville on company P.O.'s.) 

Dealer inquiries invited 



Add — * 
fees from 
this chart. 



SHIPPING/HANDLING 



Up toSIO.DO S1.00 

S10.01 10 $25,00 1,50 
25.01 to 50.00 2.00 




All products guaranteed to meet or exceed published specif ications 

AP PRODUCTS INCORPORATED 

Box 1 10-G • Painesville, OH 44077 • 216/354-2101 



Bulk Memory 

Microcomputer Audio 

Cassette Interface 

$83 5 ° 



o Records and plays back through 
standard TTY interface 

o Variable BAUD rate 

o Single +5V supply 



Unit Quantity 



o Rate factory set at 300 BAUD for use with inexpensive 
audio cassette recorder 



Send To: SOUTHWEST 

DEVELOPMENT 
COMPANY 



13777 North Central Expwy. 

Suite 416 

Dallas, Texas 75231 

214-231-2558 



"I Enclosed is check for $83.50. Please send my cassette 
— interface immediately. 

j I Please send cassette interface C.O.D. Enclosed is my check 
' — for $8.50 . I will pay postman $80.00 upon delivery. 

Name 



Address. 
City 



State 



Zip 



87 




BOOK REVIEWS 



Because they are simply 
programmed, there are 
endless small games of 
chance, games involving 
out-guessing the computer, 
and venerable "ancient" 
games, often with modern 
twists thrown in. 



Many of these programs 
are over-simplified versions 
of the "real" games, due 
to the dual constraint of 
the BASIC language and 
generally limited computer 
resources, but this makes 
them even more attractive 
for the microcomputer 
user. 



101 BASIC Computer Games, Digital Equip- 
ment Corporation. Maynard, Mass. $7.50. 



Before you dismiss this as just another of 
the plethora of BASIC game books, note 
that 707 BASIC Computer Games claims the 
distinction of being the "first [circa July 
1973] collection of games all in BASIC," 
and "the only collection that contains both 
a complete listing and a sample run of each 
game along with a descriptive write-up." 

The preface cites the educational value of 
games as one of the prime motivations for 
the book. This is a fact which no one would 
seriously contest, but which computer 
center directors seem to overlook as they 
contemplate the hours of wasted computer 
time. Since time on our home systems is 
never wasted, by definition, this shouldn't 
pose a problem. 

Most of the games in the book are 
computer simulations of simple games of 
chance, sports, "ancient" games, and board 
or card games. And, as the preface adds, very 
few of the games use the innovative capa- 
bilities of the computer "to come up with 
something new and truly unique." 

The authors of this collection have, for 
the most part, put an imaginative or 
humorous illustration with each game. The 
format consists of a short descriptive write- 
up of the game, any special language or 
computer requirements, a reference to (and 
sometimes personal notes from) the author, 
and a listing of the game, along with sample 
runs. 

Because they are simply programmed, 
there are endless small games of chance, 
games involving out-guessing the computer, 
and venerable "ancient" games, often with 
modern twists thrown in. For example, 
there's AWARI, an ancient game of rotating 
beans in a pit; BAGLES, a 3-digit number 
guessing game that teaches simple logic; 
BUG, a dice-rolling game that draws a bug 
part-by-part; CHOMP, involving eating a 
computerized cookie, while trying to avoid 



eating the poisoned piece; the ancient game 
of GUESS, where the user tries to guess the 
number the computer is "thinking of"; 
HANG, the age-old game of hang-man, with 
the added "bell and whistle" of drawing the 
hung man part-by-part; and TOWER, a game 
program that helps the user attempt to solve 
the old, old puzzle of the Towers of Hanoi, 
providing a graphic display of each step on 
the way. 

There are dozens of standard game- 
playing or sport-simulating programs. For 
example, in the card game area, we have 
ACEYDU, an acey-deucey game; BLKJAC, a 
very comprehensive (Las Vegas rules) black- 
jack game; POKER; and the old card game 
of WAR. The book also sports baseball, 
basketball, bowling, boxing, darts, bull- 
fighting, high school and professional foot- 
ball, golf, ice-hockey (against Cornell!), and 
parachuting games. Board games include 
bingo, checkers, Go, Monopoly, Nim, and 
three-dimensional Tic-Tac-Toe (none of 
which embody much computer intelligence, 
unfortunately). The simulations include 
games of battleship, gunboat, a World War II 
bombing mission, Can-Am road racing, Civil 
War battles, fur-trading, governing the 
ancient land of Sumeria, ruling a modern 
island wisely, successful pizza-delivering, 
Apollo capsule landing, lunar lander 
maneuvering, space war, and a stock market 
simulation. The gambling games and games 
of chance are even more numerous. 

Many of these programs are over-simpli- 
fied versions of the "real" games, due to the 
dual constraint of the BASIC language and 
generally limited computer resources, but 
this makes them even more attractive for the 
microcomputer user. A few of the games ore 
quite comprehensive and thus rather large: 
blackjack, pro football, Can-Am racing, 
lunar landing, and space war (which is really 
a complete Star Trek simulation). 

707 BASIC Computer Games includes a 
few novelty and scientific programs such as 
BANNER, which prints large letters on 
standard terminals in a banner-like fashion, 



88 







% 



I 
1 



S. D. SALES CO. 

6 Digit Digital Clock Kit 

We wanted our word to mean something to you. When 
we first introduced our clock we used such words as 
"impossible", "unbelievable bargain", "prime qual- 
ity", and "unconditional money back guarantee." We 
anticipated selling several hundred kits. Your response 
to our clock has been fantastic. Now several thousand 
kits later, we hear such comments as "outstanding 
value", "exceptional service", "I can't believe it", etc. 
One enthusiastic customer even wrote saying it was 
"the best thing since bottled beer." 

Here's What The Kit Includes: 



MM5314 National Clock Chip with socket 
Common Cathode Led Readouts (.25 in. char.) 
NPN and PNP Driver Transistors # /\qc 
Push Button Switches for time set ▼ Q«'J 
Switch for Time Hold J (KIT) 



Filter Cap 
IN4001 Rectifiers 

1 - IN914 Diode 

2 - .01 Disc. Caps 

9 - Carbon Resistors 



WITH SPECS. 

Transformer POSTPAID 

$1.50 
P.C. BOARD FOR ABOVE 
$3.00 each 



tt 
^ 

§£ 

£ 



£ 
* 
& 



& 

& 



INTEL 1702A 2K ERASEABLE PROM'S $6.95 

We tell it like it is. We could have said these were 
factory new, but here is the straight scoop. We bought 
a load of new computer gear that contained a quantity 
of 1702A's in sockets. We carefully removed the parts, 
verified their quality, and are offering them on one heck 
of a deal. First come, first served. Satisfaction 
guaranteed. 



PROFESSIONAL QUALITY STEREO HEADPHONES 

Here is the kind of super deal that S. D. is famous for. 
Treat your ears to a super sound at a super price. Soft 
padded ear cushions, lightweight, fully adjustable 
headband, long coiled cord, wide response. $6 Post 
Paid - NEW IN ORIGINAL FACTORY BOXES 



SALE ON CUT LEAD SEMICONDUCTORS 

Leads were cut for PCB insertion. Still very useable. 
IN4148 Diode - 407 $1 2N3904 (House #Transistor) - 
25/S1 



INSTRUMENT KNOBS 

Black with brushed aluminum insert. Medium size, very 
attractive style. SPECIAL 5 FOR$1 



VERNIER DIAL 

From a close out of metal detector manufacturer. V2 
Turn, 8 to 1 ratio. Internal stops easily removed to make 
unit multi-turn. 
LIMITED QUANTITY - $.99 EACH 




DO YOU NEED A LARGE COMMON ANODE 
READOUT AT A FANTASTIC PRICE ! 

S. D. presents the MAN-64 by Monsanto - .40 
inch character. All LED construction - not re- 
flective bar type, fits 14 pin DIP. Brand new 
and factory prime. Left D.P. 

$1.59 ea. 6 for S7 .50 



FAIRCHILD LED READOUTS - 69c 

FND-70. Common cathode. Right hand 
decimal point. .25 inch character. Prime 
new units. Perfect for clocks, frequency 
counters, etc. 69c 10 For $6 

Best Readout Buy in USA! 




DRIVER 
TRANSISTORS 

2N3904 - NPN 

2N3906 - PNP 

8 for $1 



2102 1K RAM's - 8 FOR $12.95 

New units by National. We bought a load on a super 
deal, hence this fantastic price. 

Units tested for 500NS Speed. 



FET'S BY TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 

#TIS-75 but with an internal house number. TO-92 
plastic case. N Channel, Junction type FET. 
SPECIALS FOR$1 



FAIRCHILD BIG LED READOUTS 

A big .50 inch easy to read character. Now available in 
either common anode or common cathode. Take your 
pick. Super low current drain, only 5 MA per segment 
typical. YOUR 

FND - 510 Common Anode CHOICE 

FND - 503 Common Cathode $2 ea. 



H.P. IS BACK! 

No Rejects or Retests here — You Want 
Quality? You have it with this popular 0.3" 
L.E.D. by Hewlett Packard. Fits Standard I. C. 
Socket. Right hand DP. 

5082-7740 — Common Cathode $1 .25 

5082-7730 — Common Anode $1 .25 

6 for $6.00 




HEAVY DUTY TRANSFORMER 

36 VAC, 3.5 AMPS. 115VAQ 60 HZ. 
PRI. For power supplies or audio power 
amps. Best quality, fully enclosed. $4.95 



8T97B 

Signetics, TRI-State Hex Buffer. MOS 
and TTL interface to TRI-State Logic. 
Special: $1.49. 



936 DTL BY ITT 

Prime, house numbered. Hex Inverter 
10 For $1 



LM324 - QUAD 741 OP 

AMP - 99c 

NE555 - Timers - 49c 

709CH - OP AMPS - 
4 For $1 

GESCR C106B1 

4 AMP 200PIV. Sensi- 
tive Gate. 59c 



-« 

ASS 



£ 
£ 



SIGNETICS 1K P-ROM 

82S129. 256 X 4. Bipolar, much faster 
than MOS devices. 50 NS. Tri-state 
outputs. TTL compatible. Field program- 
able, and features on chip address 
decoding. Perfect for microprogramming 
applications. 16 pin DIP. With specs. 
$2.95 ea. 






TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 8 DIGIT 
CALCULATOR CHIP TMSO 103NC 

Four function. Same style as used in Tl 
pocket calculators. Factory new units, 
with specs. 99c each. 



1AMP 1000 PIV SILICON RECTIFIERS 

•"■' IN4007. Factory prime devices. 10 for 
$1.00 



741COP AMPS 

Prime, factory tested and marked. Full 
spec on all parameters. Not re-tested, 
functional only, units as sold by others. 
741 CH -TO-5 8 Lead Metal Can . . . 3/$1 
741CV - 8 Lead Mini Dip 4/S1 



DL747 JUMBO LED READOUTS 

.1 By Litronix. .65 inch character. Common 






anode. Outperforms SLA-3. perfect for 
giant digital clocks. Only 20 MA. per 
segment. Special - $2.50 ea. (Not Class II) 

MERRY CHRI 



SUBMINIATURE TRIMMER CAPS 

Ultra stable. Range: 3.5 to 18 PF. 2 for $1 



FILTER CAPS 

Dual section, 2000 MFD and 1500 MFD 
at 30 WVDC Twist Lock. 79c ea. 3 For $2 



NATIONAL VOLTAGE REGULATOR 

Like 7805. 5VDC - 1 AMP output. Has 
TO-220 plastic power tab - 99c 



IN4148 COMPUTER DIODES 

Same as IN914. Factory prime. 20 for $1 



FULL WAVE BRIDGE 

By G. I. 1.5 AMP800PIV - 



75c 



2N706A 400MHZ. TRANSISTORS 

Silicon NPN. 1 WATT. TO-18 Case. 5 
For $1 



LARGE SIZE LED LAMPS 

Similar to MV5024. Prime factory tested 

units. We include plastic mounting clips 

which are very hard to come by. 

Special 5 for $1 



MOTOROLA NEG. VOLTAGE REG 

MC1469R. TO-66 9 Lead package. For 3 
TO 30V Outputs. Provides 600 MA direct 
output or more by using an external 
power transistor. Reg. catalog $4 ea. 
With specs. $1.95 ea. 



MOTOROLA POWER DARLINGTON 
$1.99 

MJ3001 - NPN - 80 Volts -10 Amps - 
HFE 6000 typ. To-3 Case. Ideal for 
power supplies, etc. We include a free 
723 regulator w/schematic for power 
supply with purchase of the MJ3001. 
You get the two key parts for a DC 
supply for only $1.99. Regular catalog 
price for the MJ3001 is $3.82 



MOTOROLA NEGATIVE 
VOLTAGE REG 

MC1463R - Like our 1469R, except for 
negative voltage. Reg. catalog $5. Our 
price $1.95. 



We do not sell junk. Money back 
guarantee on every item. WE PAY 
POSTAGE. Orders under $10 add 75c 
handling. No C.O.D. Texas Res. add 5°o 
tax. 



S. D. SALES CO. 

P.O. BOX 28810 
DALLAS, TEXAS 75228 



► fiS 



£ 



STMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR 



alPafFftffftfra 



89 



Man is never satisfied with 
what he's got - the third 
section of Microprocessors 
deals with limitations of 
microcomputers and how 
to push them back a bit. 



For the hobbyist hardware 
expert, the book provides 
a fair overview of the 
microcomputer field; for 
the person more 
acquainted with software, 
it gives a good introduc- 
tory look at the field from 
a hardware perspective. 



LIFE, LIFE-2, which is a competitive game 
of life, HEXPAWN (see BYTE no. 3), and a 
children's literature quiz. A few of these 
games are worth singling out — my favorite 
is a buzzword generator that produces useful 
(?) computer jargon such as "total moni- 
tored mobility," "systematized reciprocal 
programming," "integrated management 
options" (surely a useful phrase) and 
"parallel digital concept." Another pair of 
programs, POETRY and POET, produce 
Haiku-like and Edgar Allen Poe-ish verse, 
respectively. They're somewhat deter- 
ministic, but certainly fun at first. 

The preface includes a caveat, warning 
any users that the majority of the programs 



Microprocessors: New Directions for 
Designers, edited by Edward A. Torrero, 
1975. Hay den Book Company, Rochelle 
Park, New Jersey. $8.95. 



Microprocessors is a paperback collection 
of reprints, originally published in Electronic 
Design from 1973 to 1975. Edward A. 
Torrero has put together a book aimed 
principally at the design engineer, empha- 
sizing the practical aspects of microcom- 
puter design. 

The first section deals with an overview 
of the micro's impact on industry. Represen- 
tative articles are "Focus on Micropro- 
cessors," a truly global assessment of the 
current situation and potential of microcom- 
puters for the design engineer; and "Smart 
Machines in Industrial Electronics," a look 
at micros in numerical control and related 
equipment. 

The second section, "Microcomputer 
Basics," includes articles on microprocessor 
selection for various applications, the capa- 
bilities and various techniques of microcom- 
puter input and output, the choice between 
random logic and micros, an analysis of 
micro instruction sets, some basics of soft- 
ware construction, and an excellent worked- 
through example of microprocessor control 
of traffic lights. This section also features a 
detailed look at the internal operation of, 
and external support required for, the 8008 
CPU chip. 

But man is never satisfied with what he's 
got — the third section of Microprocessors 
deals with limitations of microcomputers 
and how to push them back a bit. The first 
article, "Speeding Microcomputer Multipli- 
cation," shows how to build a CPU-comple- 
mentary multiplication circuit for the 
IMP-16C that allows multiplication of two 



are written in "standard" BASIC (where 
"standard" apparently means DEC's 
BASIC), so some conversion may be 
necessary for other BASIC systems. I would 
emphasize this warning - some of DEC's 
BASIC features used in the games (the file 
handling procedures, for example) may be 
difficult to convert. 

However, it should be clear that 101 
BASIC Computer Games is really a 
"Hacker's Garden of (Computer) Verse," 
and is certainly worth the $7.50 it costs. For 
ordering and bulk discount information, 
write Digital Equipment Corporation, Soft- 
ware Distribution Center, 146 Main St., 
Maynard MA 02154. 



16-bit unsigned operands in 23 micro- 
seconds. Using only 16 standard SSI and 
MSI circuits, this CPU addition reduces 
multiplication time by a factor of 30 from 
software, and by a factor of 7 from the 
optional National-supplied multiply instruc- 
tion. Other articles include an investigation 
of the "microprogrammability" of some 
micros for special applications, construction 
of a system that allows a conventional mini 
to debug a microsystem, implementation of 
an external push-down stack for the 8008 to 
assist in interrupt handling, and specifica- 
tions for providing the clock and drive 
signals for the 8080, something apparently 
missing from the 8080's application data. 

The articles of the fourth and last section 
cover an ample range of applications. The 
first is a close-up of a Motorola 6800 CPU 
used as a controller of a simple drum printer; 
the second describes the use of an ACIA 
(Asynchronous Communications Adapter) in 
a minicomputer context. The last three 
articles deal with uses of micros in instru- 
mentation, phase locked loop motor control, 
and "intelligent" networks of computers. 

From this (rather exhaustive) list of 
articles, it should be clear that Micropro- 
cessors is certainly a useful book for its 
intended audience, the electronics design 
engineer. It also fills two other important 
functions: for the hobbyist hardware expert, 
it provides a fair overview of the microcom- 
puter field; for the person more acquainted 
with software, it gives a good introductory 
look at the field from a hardware perspec- 
tive, an introduction that I found very 
useful. 



Chris Ryland 
25 Follen St. 
Cambridge MA 02138 



90 



2704 x 4 BIT MEMORY BOARD 



KoilJijk/'S, 



Have you ever loaded a long 
program into memory, only to 
have the power fail? Lost the 
entire program, huh? If so, you 
know the value of having a non- 
volatile magnetic core memory. 
We have acquired these core 
memory boards, made by 
Burroughs. They appear to be 
52 x 52 x 4 bits wide (2704 
bits x 4), for a total of 10,816 
bits. Unfortunately, we don't have data, but for the modest price we 
are asking they are well worth the effort to figure out. 754" x 9" x 
1%". Shipping weight 2 lbs. Less than 1/10 cent per bit! 
STOCK NO. B5316 Core Memory Board $9.95 each, 4/35 



256 x 4 BIT CORE MEMORY BOARD 



Another non-volatile magnetic core 
memory board. This one was originally 
made for one of America's largest calcu- 
lator manufacturers. It is a complete 

256 bit x 4 bits wide memory board (1024 bits). Complete with 

core drivers and sensors. 654" wide x 3%" high, 1 lb. With limited 

data. QUANTITY LIMITED. 

STOCK NO. B5203 $9.95 each 




KEYTOPS & SWITCHES 
TO MAKE YOUR OWN KEYBOARD 



We have a large selection of KEYTOPS and SWITCHES, made by 
RAYTHEON CO. The keytops come in black, grey and white, 
with contrasting legends. The switches mate with the tops, and are 
magnetic reed switches. The following combinations are available: 
54 key typewriter set, keys only, black K9276 2.95 

54 key typewriter set, keys only, grey K9278 2.95 

54 key TTY set, no symbols white K9279 2.95 

54 key TTY set, with symbols white K9282 2.95 

54 key set, keys & switches black K9288 30.00 

54 key set, keys 8i switches grey K9290 30.00 

54 TTY set, no symbols keys & Sw. White K9291 30.00 

54 TTY set, with symbols, keys & Sw. whiteK9291 30.00 



11 Key Numeric set. Keys only Black 

11 Key Numeric set. Keys only Grey 

1 1 Key Numeric set, Keys only White 

12 Key numeric set. Keys only white 

1 1 Key Num. set, keys & switches Black 
11 Key Num. set, keys & switchesGrey 

1 1 Key Num. set, keys & switchesWhite 

12 Key Num. set, keys 8t switcheswhite 

Blank key 1 % keys wide white 

Blank key 2 keys wide white 

K9297A with switch white 

K9297B with switch white 



K9283 
K9284 
K9295 
K9286 

K9293 
K9294 
K9295 
K9296 



1.50 
1.50 
1.50 
1.50 

7.00 
7.00 
7.00 
7.50 



K9297A 3/.25 

K9297B 3/. 25 

K9298A 3/2.00 

K9298B 3/2.00 



KR-2376 KEYBOARD ENCODER ROM 

This IC Keyboard Encoder is ideal for use with the above key- 
board sets, or with any other keyboard. Made by General Inst., 
this 40 pin IC features TTL/DTL or MOS compatable outputs, 
external parity selection, 2 key roll-over, N-key lockout, self 
contained oscillator, and static charge protection of all inputs 
and outputs. This chip is programmed for ASCII code outputs 
for 88 keys in the Normal mode, using external Shift operation. 
In the Shift mode, it is programmed for EBCDID outputs. New, 
tested, with data sheets. G.I. number KR-2376-10. 
STOCK NO. B3118 $9.95 each 

M1568 dual 15 volt regulator IC. Tracking regulator, 15v 
@ 100 ma each. 14 pin DIP. STK NO. B4481 $1.50 ea, 4/5.00 



DATA INPUT KEYBOARD HOUSING 

This high impact plastic 
housing was part of a 
famous name programmable 
desktop calculator. It is tan, | 
has the general appearance 
of a typewriter case, and is 
ideal for many types of comp- 
uter keyboards. Mounting 
center for the keyboard is 1554". 
The readout space is 15" x 4". 
Overall size is 18" x 1854" x 654' 
3 lbs. Will easily house an entire 
TVTor micrpcomputer. Prepunched' 

hole in rear for a muffin fan. The opening in the top may vary! 
the one shown in the drawing. 
STOCK NO. B9176 $3.75 each, 2/7.00 




HEAVY DUTY POWER SUPPLY 

This power supply is surplus from a maker of 
computer peripherals. It has outputs of +5v 
@ 5 amps, — 5v <s> 500ma, +12v @ 2.5 amps, 
and -12v @ 200ma. All voltages are well 
filtered and regulated. Ideal for your micro- 
or mini- computer. All are tested & working. 
1054" x 1354" x 7" high, shipping weight 22 lbs. 
STOCK NO. B5312 $34.95 




ALCO KNOBS FOR EVERY APPLICATION 

Machined aluminum knobs with 2 setscrews. Clear anodized 
finish. Latest distributor price $ .65 to 1.05 each. 
ALCO NO O.D. x HT. DELTA NO. PRICE 

KS 500A .500" x .625" w/skirt B6176 .40 ea, 10/3. 

K 700A .750" x .620" B6177 .40 ea, 10/3, 

K 1250A 1.250" x .750" B6178 .50 ea, 10/4. 



50 
50 
50 



2502 AY-5-1013 UART 

Brand new, tested, General Instrument AY-5-1013 UART 
(Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter). This 
40 pin IC is pin compatable with Signetics 2536, Tl's 
TMS6012, SMC COM2502, etc. The UART is the 
standard building block for parallel to serial and serial 
to parallel conversion, serial communication, etc. A must 
for TVTs, cassette interface, RS-232 interface, etc. 
STOCK NO. B3119 $3.95 each 



COMPUTER GRADE ELECTROLYTICS 

We carry a good selection of capacitors of all types, dipped micas, 
ceramic disks, mica trimmers, tantalums, silvered micas, tubulars, 
small electrolytics, high voltage, etc. Listed below are a few of our 
large computer grade electrolytic capacitors. 
VOLT MFD STOCK PRICE 



lOv 


40,000 


B2026 


2.00 each. 


6/11.00 


lOv 


90,000 


B2495 


3.00 each. 


3/8.00 


10v 


160,000 


B2515 


3.25 each. 


4/12.00 


15v 


110,000 


B2352 


3.50 each. 


3/9.00 


25v 


32,000 


B2492 


3.00 each, 


4/T0.00 


35v 


40,000 


B2255 


3.50 each. 


3/9.00 


50v 


10,000 


B2493 


3.25 each. 


4/12.00 


75v 


6,000 


B2450 


3.50 each. 


4/12.00 


200v 


500 


B2345 


2.50 each. 


4/9.00 



1458, dual 741 type op-amp. 
STOCK NO. B3112 



8 pin mini-DIP. Very versatile. 

$1.25 each, 5/5.00 



2 MILLION BIT MEMORY DRUM 

We have one 2 million bit memory drum which was removed from 
an experimental computer. It was manufactured by General Instru- 
ment Co. for Ultrasonic Systems Corp., Mount Laurel, N. J. It is 
G. I. Model MH12C-128-189, Serial No. 7816, and U.S.C. Model 
620MDRA1206. It has a maximum access time of 33.4 ms, and a 
transfer rate in excess of 500K bits/ sec/ track. There are 108 
storage tracks, expandable to 128 tracks, with a seperate head for 
each track. The number of bits/ track = 16,000. For more data, 
phone us and ask for Mel Weiss or Ray Jorgenson. 617-388-4705 
$500 



A 



DELTA ELECTRONICS CO. 

BOX 1, LYNN, MASSACHUSETTS 01903 
Phone (617) 388-4705 



MINIMUM ORDER $5.00. Include sufficient postage, exeats 
refunded. Send for new 88 page Catalog 15, bigger than ever. 

BANKAMERICARD and MASTERCHARQE 
now accepted, minimum charge $16.00. Please 
Include all numbers. Phone orders acceoted. 



1 



Review: 



The CT- 1024 Kit 



James Hogenson 

Box 295 

Halstad MN 56548 



The Southwest Tech CT-1024 is a key- 
board to TV interface which displays 16 
lines of 32 ASCII characters each on a TV 
screen. The CT-1024 may be ordered with a 
variety of options facilitating easy interface 
with any computer. The CT-1024 is a 
welcome compromise between one line LED 
displays and commercial CRT or hard copy 
terminals. 

Data to be displayed is stored in the form 
of ASCII coded characters. The display 
circuitry scans the memory, converts the 
ASCII codes to 5 by 7 dot matrix characters, 
and then generates the video signals 
necessary to reproduce the characters on a 
TV screen. 

The main board holds the character 
generator, synchronization and timing 
circuits. This double sided board, measuring 
9.5 inches by 12 inches (24.1 cm by 30.5 
cm) holds 42 integrated circuits and a few 
other parts. Three cable connectors are 
mounted on the main board for input, 
output and power supply connections. A 
group of connectors are provided for plug-in 
boards. 

The memory board plugs into the main 
board. The memory uses 2102 type chips to 
store 1024 characters. The memory is 
divided into two pages of 512 characters 
each. A switch can be used to select the 
page, or without a switch, the pages will 
alternate. When one page is filled, the 
display automatically selects the other page. 

The main board, memory board, parts for 
both and a 29 page manual, constitute the 
basic kit selling for $175. The manual 
includes step-by-stcp assembly instructions 
for the main board and memory board, 
detailed testing and calibration instructions, 
five and one half pages of "How it Works," 
connector diagrams, parts lists, and foldouts 



for component placement and two color foil 
pattern diagram. The main board circuit 
diagram is supplied on a separate 18 inch by 
24 inch (45.7 cm by 61.0 cm) sheet. 
Documentation for the optional plug-in 
boards is provided with each of those kits. 

Assembly is not difficult, but it is not a 
"one-evening" type of project cither. It will 
be worth your while to take your time and 
be careful while putting the CT-1024 
together. There is a flat charge of $25 if you 
have to send your main board in for repair. 

Getting the CT-1024 adjusted and cali- 
brated after assembly is as simple as turning 
four pots. There are no special tricks 
involved, and the only instrument needed is 
a VOM. 

The CT-1 024 requires 5 V at 2 A, and -5 
V and -12 V at 100 mA each. If your 
existing system's power supply is unable to 
provide this, you can buy the CT-P power 
supply kit for $15.50; the entire supply 
circuit is contained on one small separate 
board. The PC board, components and trans- 
former are included in the power supply kit. 

There is a wide variety of input options 
for the CT-1024 allowing interface with 
almost anything. Any TTL compatible 
ASCII input will be accepted. The SWTPC 
keyboard kit can be connected directly to 
the CT-1024 main board. If you do not 
require data ready control strobes, you can 
connect your microcomputer's output 
directly to the main board input. If this is 
done, however, you must program a time 
delay between each data transfer. This 
method will also be error prone if inter- 
connect cables are more than 2 or 3 feet in 
length. 

If the CT-1024 is used as a remote 
terminal, the serial interface kit is an 
excellent option. This kit will allow the 



92 



LOGIC POWER SUPPLIES 

New Lambda transistorized, regulated, worth 2 or 3 times our price. 

1. (LVEE-5)0V, 5 VDC74amp 125.00 

2. (LWD - 12) 12 VDC 26.5 amp 100.00 

3. ( LMB - 5) 5 VDC 3.7 amp 40.00 

4. (LMD - 15Y) 15 VDC 9 amp 45.00 



ii > rr^p 




SOPHISTICATED LOGIC 
SUPPLIES 

By Dressen-Barnes and NJE. Transistorized, 
finely filtered and regulated. 1 15 volt input. 

#41-5S Output 5VDC 6 Amp $25.00 

#421-32 Output 32VDC 3.3 Amp 12 lb 20.00 

#421-90 Output 90VDC 1.2 Amp 12 1b 20.00 

#NJE 5VDC34 Amp 35 lb 75.00 




MEMORY SYSTEM $125.00 

New memory system by Honeywell, small . . . 
measures only 9x4x1 inches. 1024 core memory, 
1024 words with 8,9,10 bits/word. Random access, 
with all logic, register, timing, control, core select and 
sense functions in one package. New, booklet of 
schematics and data. Looks like a good beginning for 
a mini-computer. Limited supply on hand. 
Ship wgt 3 lbs. #SP-79 $125.00 
















1,000 /uF 


15 volt 


$ .35 


2,000 uF 


35 volt 


1.00 


2,000 


15 


.50 


12,000 


40 


2.50 


1,000 


25 


.70 


3,900 


50 


2.00 


3,000 


25 


1.00 


22,000 


75 


3.25 


1,000 


35 


.80 









COMPUTER 
CAPS 
BRAND 
NEW 



CORE MEMORY 

Another brand new memory, ultra small. Measures only 4x4 inches 
with format on one plane of 32 x 32 x 16 (16,384). Only about 35 
units of this on hand. 
#SP-81 $20.00 



SANDERS 720 KEYBOARD $40.00 




yffe£fm<2. 



FREE CATALOG 

Please add shipping cost on above. 

MESHNA P0 Bx 62 E. Lynn Mass. 01904 



93 




Southwest Tech CT-1024 video terminal . . . built on a homemade base. Row of switches along the top is for extra functions. 



terminal to communicate via a three wire 
system, phone line, or magnetic tape storage 
system. 

The serial interface will convert parallel 
data to serial data and will produce not only 
the serial data, but start, stop and parity bits 
as well. The serial interface will both 
transmit and receive, thus making the 
CT-1024 a complete terminal. Standard 
speed is 110 baud. Adding optional parts to 
the PC board will provide 150, 300, 600 or 
1200 baud. 

When the serial interface is used, the 
keyboard is connected to the serial interface 
board. In the echo mode, data is transmitted 
to the receiver, but is not displayed on the 
screen until it is transmitted back to the 
terminal. Otherwise data is transmitted and 
simultaneously displayed. 

The input and output connections are 
RS-232 compatible and will attach directly 
to most couplers and data sets. To record on 
or play back from magnetic tape, it will be 
necessary to build an FSK circuit which is 
not included on the serial interface board. 

The serial interface board measuring 
3.375 inches by 9.5 inches (8.6 cm by 24.1 
cm) plugs into the main board. This kit 
including thorough documentation sells for 
$39.95. 

A parallel interface board is available for 



faster data transfer between the CT-1024 
and your microcomputer. The parallel inter- 
face board provides the handshaking, 
buffering and timing necessary to transfer 
data properly at high speed in a number of 
system configurations. The various operating 
modes are programmed by jumper wires. 
The versatility of the parallel interface board 
makes the CT-1024 compatible with any 
computer system — from home brew hobby 
systems to large scale commercial systems. 

High noise immunity in the parallel inter- 
face is provided by a special circuit on the 
strobe lines and on all inputs from the data 
bus. For maximum flexibility, all data and 
strobe lines from the IO bus can be selec- 
tively inverted by programming jumpers on 
the PC board. The keyboard can be directed 
to just print data on the screen, print data 
on the screen and load the data onto the 
output bus, or just load data onto the 
output bus. The latter option will allow you 
to have all data echoed back for verification. 

The interface input and output bus lines 
can be used separately or parallel for bidirec- 
tional systems. To make interfacing even 
easier, the data flow control lines can be 
either strobed or operated in a demand/ 
response mode. All of these options are 
selected by inserting jumper wires on the PC 
board. 



94 



The parallel interface board measures 4 
inches by 9.5 inches (10.2 cm by 24.1 cm) 
and plugs into the main board. Both parallel 
and serial interface boards cannot be used at 
the same time. The parallel interface kit is 
priced at $22.95. 

The CT-1024 produces a video signal 
output which can be viewed on a video 
monitor or a modified television set. Don't 
let the "modified" scare you away because 
the modification is quite simple. 

I picked up an old tube type junker for 
$15. I inserted a 10 pF capacitor as men- 
tioned in the instructions, left out the rest, 
but placed a 6.8 kO resistor and a 180 pF 
disc capacitor in parallel between the 
CT-1024 video output and the TV video 
input. I disconnected the IF stage from the 
grid of the video output tube and connected 
the CT-1024 at that point. The only way to 
find out what modifications are necessary on 
your set is to start experimenting. The 
television modifications necessary will vary 
from one set to the next. 

The CT-1024 includes another con- 
venience: a cursor. The cursor is a little 
blinking square displayed on the screen 
which shows where the next character 
entered will be displayed. An optional 
switch will stop the blinking action or blank 
out the cursor if desired. 



The cursor generation circuitry is 
included on the main board. An optional 
cursor control kit will provide a wider range 
of controls over the cursor. The manual 
cursor control kit will provide switch 
debouncing for your choice of switches. The 
use of these switches or keys will allow you 
to move the cursor up, down, left or right. 
"Home up" will return the cursor to the 
upper left corner of the screen. "Erase to 
end of line" will erase anything between the 
cursor and the end of the line. "Erase to end 
of frame" will erase anything between the 
cursor and the lower right corner of the 
frame. 

The cursor control board plugs into the 
main board. The cursor control switches 
connect via wires to the cursor control 
board. The manual cursor control kit is 
available for $11.50. 

If you are not presently in a position to 
fork out the bills for a good Teletype, join 
the club. And get a CT-1 024. Or for those of 
you who have a Teletype rig, how about all 
those times you read a printout once, then 
threw it away and tried again? A TV 
terminal might be worth the consideration. 
There are lots of other uses for a TV 
typewriter without the computer, too. What- 
ever your application might be, it seems that 
there are a lot of satisfied CT-1024 users. ■ 



ALTAI R OWNERS 

(and users of Altair components) 
Interface your computer with the outside world! 

Now an A/D D/A board for the Altair with: 

• 1 or 2 analog outputs with 1 bit resolution 

• 8 Analog inputs 

• 4 Digital outputs for control functions 

• Complete driving software provided 

• Interfaces numerous inexpensive sensing devices including 
photocells, thermistors, ultrasonics, and other analog 
transducers 

• Drives plotters, CRT's, servos, etc. 

with 1 D/A $1 35 kit $175 assembled 
2 D/A's $1 80 kit $235 assembled 
Coming January 1— a one-board video interface for the 
Altair with keyboard interface 

• Full graphics capability (48x64 matrix) 

• 1 6 lines of 32 characters (64 characters optional on board 
for use with high resolution TV monitors) 

• Graphics and text may be mixed on screen 

• Upper and lower case charactures (7x9 font) 

• Keyboard input port provided 

$160 kit $230 assembled 
(Cal residents please add 6% sales tax) 

POLYMORPHIC SYSTEMS 

P.O. Box 2207, Goleta, Calif. 9301 8 



95 



BUI 



reader 
service 



To get further information on the products advertised in this 
issue of BYTE merely tear, rip, or snip out this advertiser index, 
fill out the data at the bottom of the page, circle the appropriate 
numbers, and send the works to BYTE, 70 Main St, Peter- 
borough NH 03458. Readers get extra Brownie Points for 
sending for information since this encourages advertisers to keep 
using BYTE — which in turn brings you a bigger BYTE. 

ADVERTISER INDEX 



A1 


ACM 6 


A2 


AP products 67, 73, 83, 87 


A3 


BYTE's Books 76 


A4 


BYTE Subscription 72 


A5 


CMR 74 


A6 


Continental Specialties 11 


A7 


Delta Electronics 91 


A8 


Dutronics 77 


A9 


Godbout 7 


A10 


Hickok 65,75 


A11 


lasis 48, 49 


A12 


IMS 40 


A13 


Int'l Elec. Unltd. 85 


A14 


Intron 67 


A15 


James 79 


A16 


Martin Research 15 


A17 


Matrix 8 


A18 


Meshna 93 


A19 


Micro Digital 39 


A20 


Mikra D 69 


A21 


MITS CIV, 5, 37,55 


A22 


National Multiplex 63 




*Pehaco CM, 1 


A23 


Polymorphics 95 


A24 


Processor Tech 20, 21 


A25 


RGS 17 


A26 


Scelbi 2 


A27 


S. D. Sales 89 


A28 


Southwest Development 87 


A29 


Southwest Tech Clll 


A30 


Sphere 23, 25 


A31 


Suntronix 81 


A32 


Tri Tek 83 


A33 


Visulex 69 


A34 


Wave Mate 71 


A35 


Windjammer 78 


♦Reader service inquiries not solicited. Correspond directly with 


company. 




Reader's Service 




BYTE 


JANUARY 1976 


Green Publishing Inc 




70 Main St 


BYTE acquired via 


Peterborough NH 03458 □ Subscription 


Please print or type. 


□ Newsstand 




□ Stolen 


Name 




Address 


City 


State Zip 



THE 



CITE 

QUESTIONNAIRE 



BYTE is dedicated to the needs of its readership. 
In order to better gauge matters of editorial policy 
and content, as well as to give our advertisers some 
"hard facts," we publish this questionnaire. 



What applications do you have in mind for your 
own personal computer system? 



Do you presently have a computer? 



If you own or use a personal computer system, 
what is its CPU chip or main frame computer 
design? 



Have you had any "on the job" training using 
computers as a tool for some purpose? 



Coupon expires in 60 days . 



Do you know what a computer language is? Would 
you list the computer languages (if any) which you 
know? 



These questions are a short form "letter to the 
editor." If you have additional comments, don't 
hesitate to write! Send completed questionnaires 
to BYTE, Dept. Q, Peterborough NH 03458. 



Feel free to photocopy this page if you wish to keep your BYTE intact. 



96 






It seems that a great many people 
came to the same conclusion that we 
did here at SwTPC. The M6800 is an 
outstanding processor and makes a 
great computer — "BUT" — Not all 
computers using the M6800 pro- 
cessor are the same. May we suggest 
that you consider the following fea- 
tures when you make your choice. 

IT ISA COMPLETE 
6800 SYSTEM? 

You cannot get all of the advan- 
tages of the 6800 system with only 
the processor chip. Unless the whole 
6800 family of chips is used you can- 
not possibly get all of the versitility 
and superior performance that the 
system is capable of providing. If for 
instance the design does not use the 
MC6820 parallel and the MC6850 
serial integrated circuits for interfac- 
ing, you lose the programmable inter- 
face feature that makes it so easy to 
interconnect the computer system 
with outside devices such as termi- 
nals, printers, disks, etc. 

IS THE SOFTWARE 
COMPATABLE OR UNIQUE? 

If the design does not use the 
"Motorola" Mikbug® ROM, then the 
software and programs that will run 
on the system are probably unique to 



that particular brand of computer. 
SwTPC uses the standard Motorola 
MCM6830L7 ROM. This provides 
automatic loading and an operating 
system that is compatable with other 
systems using the standard widely 
sold Motorola evaluation set. As an 
owner of our 6800 computer system, 
you are eligible for membership in 
the Motorola Users Group. If you 
join you have access to a library of 
programs that will run on your sys- 
tem. Editor and assembler programs 
are available directly from SwTPC. 

CAN THE SYSTEM BE EXPANDED 
AT A REASONABLE COST? 

Some of the limited systems be- 
ing offered at lower prices can be 
expanded only with difficulty. Check 
the amount of memory that can be 
added and at what cost. How many 
additional interfaces can be added, if 
any. How much of the above can be 
run off of the power supply provided 
with the system? The SwTPC 6800 
can be expanded up to 16K words of 
memory in the standard cabinet and 
with the power supply provided. It 
may also be expanded up to eight 
interface (I/O) boards for external 
devices by simply plugging in the 
cards. Memory is $1 25.00 for each 
4,096 words of expansion and inter- 



face cards are only $35.00 for serial 
or parallel types. 

Memory expansion will be essen- 
tial if you ever intend to use a resi- 
dent assembler, or higher level lan- 
guages such as APL or BASIC on 
your system. Assembler programs 
typically require a minimum of 4,096 
words of memory and higher level 
languages require even more. 

HOW DO YOU ENTER 
AND READ DATA? 

Let's hope it is by way of a TTY, 
or video terminal. No one with a 
serious computer application would 
consider attempting to enter data 
from a switch and status light con- 
sole. These may be educational, but 
they sure aren't practical. Calculator 
keypads and digital readouts are not 
much better. There is no substitute 
for a full alphanumeric keyboard and 
terminal system display for serious 
work. 

Mikbug® is a registered trademark of 
Motorola Inc. 



m@@ 



Computer System 
with serial interface and 2,048 Words 
of memory $450.00 





___ COMPUTER 

55,Ts3 6800 =««» 



D Enclosed is $450 for my SwTPC Computer Kit □ Send Data 

□ or BAC # 

□ or MC Ex Date 



ADDRESS 



CITY STATE ZIP 

Southwest Technical Products Corp., Box 32040, San Antonio, Texas 78284 



GPeacea du man. 




tub ippopiaHie 

DOmPUCBP. 



