# RETRIEVED FROM: https://archive.org/details/byte-magazine-1976-06   (OCR body: metadata -> items-server *_djvu.txt)
# ACCESS DATE: 2026-09-24  |  Level-3 chronology/feasibility probe, company_004_apple
# DOCUMENT: raw Internet Archive OCR text, uncorrected. Nothing below this header was edited.
# Issue-month corroboration: see _RETRIEVAL_LOG.md and the masthead line inside this file.
# 
ISSUE NUMBER 10 



t 









JUNE 1976 $1.50 



PRINTED IN USA 






HIIIIHIIIIII! Illlllllllllllllllll 



KIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIII 









the small systems journal 















!i;:i '!: '" ' : ' ■"■■■■•:■■•■■■;;■■:;: ... ; :.. ; ' ■':;;■;■ 

Illlllllllllllllllll ' Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll|llll!lllll|l|||||||||| 



w» 



niliiiliiiiiiiiiiipii|iliiiiiiiiliiiiiiliiiiiiiiiii| 






illlllllllllllllllll 



IiinnMlilllllllll|llilllll|!||llll;!llll|l|||||||llll||i 






i inn iiiii 



uiiuLiiiiiiia 



IIIIL;.I» 



The Game of LIFE Played in Color 



COMPARE 



Feature 



-6800 



Theirs— Your Choice 



Processor- 



Memory— 



Power Supply- 



Expansion— 



Start Up- 



Clock- 



Buffering— 



Documentation- 



Price- 



The best "Motorola MC6800". Two accumulators, automatic 
vectoring, seven addressing modes and complete set of branch 
instruction. The more powerful instruction set and memory 
orientated architecture makes programming very straight for- 
ward and easy to learn. Operates from a single +5 Volt supply. 

Static 2102-1 type memories. Fast enough to allow the pro- 
cessor to run at full speed at all times. No refresh cycles, no 
problems with glitches and flakey dynamic memories. 

10 Amp. Capacity. More than enough to power a fully ex- 
panded system. Power supply uses a rugged 25 amp bridge 
rectifier and a 91,000 mfd computer grade filter. Regulators 
on the individual plug-in cards. 

Seven slots for processor and memory boards. Eight 1/0 slots. 
1/0's are programmable type. All decoding and clocking pro- 
vided from mother board making additional interfaces very 
inexpensive. Baud rates may be independently selected for 
each interface card. 

Automatic start and reset provided by "Motorola" Mikbug® 
ROM. No fiddling with switches and status lights. Just push 
the button and go. Use of standard Motorola firmware makes 
software 100% compatible with Motorola evaluation module 
programs. 

Crystal controlled master clock oscillator with high power 
clock drivers. Insures reliable, consistant operation with no 
noise problems. Baud rate divider operating from the master 
clock oscillator provides the various baud rates for the I/O 
devices with crystal accuracy. No adjustments necessary to 
lock everything in at the proper frequency. 

Tri-state bi-directional buffers on all data lines, address lines 
and clock lines on ALL boards. Insures trouble free noise 
immune operation. 

Very complete. Our own notebook, plus the "Motorola" 
Programming Manual and Applications Manual. Detailed 
instructions along with sample programs help you to under- 
stand programming. You will be ready and able to write your 
own programs after mastering these instructions. 

$395.00 For the whole thing. You get the case, power sup- 
ply, processor 2 K word memory and serial interface. 
No extras to buy. Just connect a terminal and start 
operating. 



Some are almost as good in one respect or another. 
None can offer all of the features of a real MC6800. 



Various types available. Often not included in the 
basic kit, and must be purchased as an extra cost 
option, (this is an option?) 

Some expand more than others with the supply 
provided. Check carefully. 



Varies from "0" to 16, or more. 



Anything from switch and status light to automatic 
ROM loading. If ROM is not a standard part, the 
software may be unique to that machine. 



Anything from cheap dual monostable systems to 
crystal control. Crystal oscillators are best. Dual 
one-shots can develop phase overlap problems and 
are more susceptible to noise problems. 



Various — from full buffering to almost no buffering. 
Lack of full buffering can lead to noise problems. 



As we said— COMPARE. 



1. 



'Registered Trademark Motorola 




— _ COMPUTER 

SBifii 6800 svs^m 



COMING ATTRACTIONS 

CASSETTE INTERFACE— Our new AC-30 will make it possible to load and 
dump programs to cassette tape using ordinary inexpensive recorders. 
Uses the standard "Kansas City" recording format for compatibility. 

LINE PRINTER— At last— hard copy at a reasonable price. Our new PR-40 
printer will print program listings, or any other material you might want 
to keep in printed form. A dot matrix printer at a price you are not going 
to believe. 

GRAPHICS TERMINAL— A universal— works with any computer— graphics 
terminal. With this connected to your computer you can play games in 
style. May be used with our CT-1024 to put both graphics and alpha- 
numerics on the screen simultaneously. 

PLEASE— Don't call or write. We will have details on these projects in our next 
ad. Government regulations prevent us from giving prices, or taking orders 
yet. 

SOFTWARE— The flood is near. Editor and assembler now available. BASIC 
and more games right away. Yours for the cost of copying. WE DON'T 
SELL SOFTWARE— WE GIVE IT TO YOU. ENJOY IT, COPY IT, WE 
WON'T COMPLAIN. . . 



Southwest Technical Products Corp., Box 32040, San Antonio, Texas 78284 



alphanumeric display 
generated with 
Dazzle-Writer software 
see below) 





Now your 



color TV can be your 
computer display terminal 



New capabilities, loo 

Cromemco's new compulcr/tv interface 
circuit lets you have a full-color computer 
display terminal for little more than a 
black-and-white terminal. 

The Cromemco interface also lets you do 
vastly more with your color terminal than 
you can do with ordinary black-and-whitcs. 

We call our interface the TV Dazzler®. It 
consists of two circuit boards that plug 
directly into your Allair 8800 or IMSAI 
8080 computer. 

Alphanumerics plus action, and graphics 
The Dazzler® maps your computer 
memory content onto your color tv screen 
in full color. 

That doesn't mean just that you see 
alphanumerics in color. You can display any 
information in memory. And do so in color. 
LIFE in color 
You can display computer games or 
animated shows (rocket ships). What's more, 
you can display business or technical 
graphics — multi-colored charts, graphs, 
histograms, educational material — all from 
computer memory. Even light shows. Not 



even the biggest computer manufacturers 
offer all this in color. 

Needs only 2K memory 
Technically, the Dazzler® scans your 
computer memory using direct-memory 
access (DMA). It formats each memory bit 
into a point on the tv screen to give a 
I 28 x 128-element picture. Only a 2K-byle 
computer memory is required (only 512 
bytes for a 32 x 32 picture). The quality of 
the pictures is evident in the photos. 

The Dazzler® output is a video signal 
that goes directly to the tv video amp or to 
the antenna terminal through an inexpensive 
commercially-available device. 

Inexpensive — and so much better 
You can see from the list beldw that the 
Dazzler® is little if any more in price than 
an ordinary b/w interface or tv typewriter. 
But it docs so much more. 

Order now 
By mail or at your computer store 
If you're into computers (or want to be), 



if you want to invent these beautiful 
displays or games, or to plot colorful 
material inexpensively at home or in 
business, the Dazzler® is for you. 

Nol only is it reasonable, but it's sold at 
computer stores from coast to coast. 

Or order directly by mail on your bank 
card. 

TV DAZZLER" (complete kit) S215 

TV DAZZLER"" (fully assembled 

and tested) S350 

SOFTWARE 
(punched paper tape with documentation) 

LIFE in full color S15 

KALEIDOSCOPE in full color S15 

DAZZLE-WRITER (for 
alphanumeric displays in color) .... SI 5 

DAZZLE-MATION (for computer- 
generated animated displays S15 

TIC-TAC-TOE (you play 
the computer) S15 

Shipped prepaid if fully paid with order. 

California users add 6% sales tax. 

Mastercharge and BankAmericard accepted 
with signed order. 

Delivery: from stock for immediate shipment. 



TV DAZZLER 

SOFTWARE 

CONTEST 

Write for details 




LIFE • DAZZLEMATION • DAZZLE-WRITER • TIC-TAC-TOE • KALEIDOSCOPE 
SOME SEQUENCES FROM CROMEMCO SOFTWARE 



n 



Cromemco 



Specialists in computer peripherals 
^^^B One First St., Los Altos, CA 94022 • (415) 941-2967 




page 16 



In 

This BITE 



One of the principal uses of a 
computer is data processing. Phillip L 
Hansford describes one simple data 
processing application which he imple- 
mented with minimal equipment: How 
to Strike a MATCH between penpals 
for his penpal club. 



What does it take to make your 
microcomputer keep track of that 
small spare time "moonlight" busi- 
ness? For small businesses, one of the 
biggest problems is all the paperwork 
required of the entrepeneur. John A 
Lehman provides an introduction to 
the subject of automated accounting 
procedures in his description of A 
Small Business Accounting System. 

Find out how to Build a Television 
Display which can be interfaced to 
your computer's memory address 
space by consulting CW Gantt Jr's 
article on a 15 IC controller for a 32 
by 16 display. 



Programming to a large extent is 
organizing your ideas about what the 
computer should do. Ronald T Her- 
man gives some basic pointers on 
Programming for the Beginner, con- 
cerning the practice of structuring 
program designs into well defined 
verbal descriptions, before you gen- 
erate a single line of code. This prac- 
tice makes programming easier and less 
subject to nasty errors which interfere 
with the goal of a working application. 



Is your high school's computing 
budget crimped? Use Christopher 
Lett's experience with A High School 
Computing System as a way to show 
that a small budget does not neces- 
sarily rule out getting a system. 



A Systems Approach to a Personal 
Microprocessor is the inaugural article 
in a new series of detailed design 
articles which is being prepared for 
BYTE by Dr Robert Suding. In this 
first instalment, you'll find some of Dr 
Suding's views on the philosophy of 
system design, to lay the groundwork. 



Build a computer? Sure. Bob 
Abbott shows you the circuitry and 
some photos of a wire wrapped M6800 
system in his article on Building an 
M6800 Microcomputer. 




page 76 



Last month, Bob Nelson introduced 
"Chip" Off the Olde PDP 8/E. In Part 
2, he discusses the interrupt structure, 
control panel features and support 
chips of the I'.tersil IM6100 design. 



One key component of system soft- 
ware for any computer is a monitor 
program. You can find out how to 
program and Interact with an ELM 
(Eloquent Little Monitor) by reading 
G H Gable's article on his design of a 
handy piece of system software. 



Techniques of developing the ef- 
fective address for operands in mem- 
ory vary with the choice of CPU. In 
An Introduction to Addressing 
Methods. John Zarrella discusses some 
of the classical ways computers use to 
calculate the address of operands in 
memory. You can use this background 
information in forming your own 
opinion about the instruction sets of 
the various microcomputers presently 
available. 



What's in a language? Nat Wads- 
worth and Mark Arnold present some 
information on their interpretive lan- 
guage system, SCELBAL, in a product 
description article. 





i 


i 

EITE #10 

JUNE 1976 


In 


the Queue 


staff 


^ — 


Foreground 


^ 


16 


BUILD A TELEVISION DISPLAY 


PUBLISHERS 




Hardware - Gantt 


Virginia Peschke 


40 


BUILDING AN M6800 MICROCOMPUTER 


Manfred Peschke 




Hardware - Abbott 


EDITOR 


48 


STRIKE A MATCH 


Carl T Helmers, Jr 




Applications Software — Hansford 


GENERAL MANAGER 


66 


INTERACT WITH AN ELM 


Manfred Peschke 




Software — Gable 


PRODUCTION MANAGER 

Judith Havey 




Background 


PRODUCTION ASSISTANT 

Elizabeth Alpaugh 


8 


A SMALL BUSINESS ACCOUNTING SYSTEM 


CIRCULATION 




Applications — Lehman 


Deborah R Luhrs 


22 


PROGRAMMING FOR THE BEGINNER 


PUBLISHERS ASSISTANTS 

Cheryl Hurd 




Software - Herman 


Carol Nyland 


28 


A HIGH SCHOOL COMPUTER SYSTEM 


Deena Zealy 




Review — Lett 


ADVERTISING 


32 


SYSTEMS APPROACH TO A PERSONAL MICROPROCESSOR 


Elizabeth Alpaugh 




System Design - Suding 


Virginia Peschke 


58 


"CHIP" OFF THE OLDE PDP 8/E-PART 2 


TYPOGRAPHY 




Hardware - Nelson 


Custom Marketing Resources, Inc 


76 


AN INTRODUCTION TO ADDRESSING METHODS 


Goodway Graphics 




Hardware — Zarrella 


Mary Lavoie 
Taimi Woodward 


82 


SCELBAL 

Product Description - Wadsworth -Arnold 


PHOTOGRAPHY 

Ed Crabtree 

Custom Marketing Resources, Inc 

ART 




Nucleus 


Bill Morello 


2 


In This BYTE 


PRINTING 

Custom Marketing Resources, Inc 


4 


Toward a Parallel Interface Standard 


The George Banta Company 


5 


Call for Papers 


ASSOCIATES 


6 


About the Cover 


Bob Baker 


14,73. 




Dan Fylstra 


81, 95,96, 


Don Lancaster 


98,100,110 What's New? 


Harold A Mauch 


36 


The Albuquerque Happenings 


Chris Ryland 


52 


Letters 




64 


Components and Parts (Puzzle) 


BYTE magazine is published 


87 


Classified Ads 


monthly by BYTE Publica- 
tions, Inc., 70 Main St, Peter- 


88 


Book Reviews 


borough, New Hampshire 


90 


Clubs, Newsletters 


03458. Subscription rates are 
$12 for one year worldwide. 


94 


Programming Quickies 


Two years, $22. Three years, 


104 


Software Bug of the Month 


$30. Second class postage paid 
at Peterborough New Hamp- 


104 


BYTE's Bugs 


shire 03458 and at additional 


106 


Systems of Note 


mailing offices. Phone 
603-924-7217. Entire contents 


112 


BOMB 


copyright 1976 BYTE Publica- 


112 


Reader's Service 

1 


tions, Inc, Peterborough NH 
03458. Address editorial cor- 
respondence to Editor, BYTE, 

r 70 Main St, Peterborough NH 

f 03458. 



PERSONAL COMPUTING '76 
Consumer Trade Fair 
Atlantic City NJ 

Personal Computing '76 will be the first 
large industry wide show for the personal 
computing field. It is being sponsored by the 
Southern Counties Amateur Radio Associa- 
tion of New Jersey, and will be held August 
28 and 29 1976 at the Shelburne Hotel and 
convention center on the Boardwalk at 
Atlantic City. For information on exhibit 
space and the show in general, contact: 

John H Dilks III, chairman 

Personal Computing '76 

503 W New Jersey Av 

Somers Point NJ 08244 

Phone: (609) 927-6950. 



• For reservations, contact: 

Shelburne Hotel/Motel 
Boardwalk & Michigan Av 
PO Box 1 1 38 
Atlantic City NJ 08404 

• Manufacturers who provide products 
for the personal computing market- 
place are invited to attend. 

• A series of seminars on subjects related 
to small computer systems is being 
arranged. 

• The show will be almost entirely 
devoted to computers and related 
products. 

• Admission to the general public will be 
$7.50 at the door, $5 if ordered in 
advance by individuals. Additional dis- 
counts are possible for group pur- 
chases by clubs, companies and other 
organizations. 



Toward a Parallel Interface Standard 



Articles Policy 

BYTE is continually seek- 
ing quality manuscripts writ- 
ten by individuals who are 
applying personal systems, or 
who have knowledge which 
will prove useful to our read- 
ers. Manuscripts should have 
double spaced typewritten 
texts with wide margins. Num- 
bering sequences should be 
maintained separately for fig- 
ures, tables, photos and list- 
ings. Figures and tables should 
be provided on separate sheets 
of paper. Photos of technical 
subjects should be taken with 
uniform lighting, sharp focus 
and should be supplied in the 
form of clear glossy black and 
white prints (if you do not 
have access to quality photog- 
raphy, items to be photo- 
graphed can be shipped to us 
in many cases). Computer list- 
ings should be supplied using 
the darkest ribbons possible 
on new (not recycled) blank 
white computer forms or bond 
paper. Where possible, we 
would like authors to supply a 
short statement about their 
background and experience. 

Articles which are accepted 
are typically acknowledged 
with a binder check 4 to 8 
weeks after receipt. Honorari- 
ums for articles are based 
upon the technical quality and 
suitability for BYTE's reader- 
ship and are typically $1 5 to 
$30 per typeset magazine 
page. We recommend that au- 
thors record their name and 
address information redun- 
dantly on materials submitted, 
and that a return envelope 
with postage be supplied in 
the event the article is not 
accepted. * 



The idea of a parallel interface standard 
which encourages interesting combinations 
of peripherals and processors from different 
manufacturers is one which in my opinion 
should be pursued to help foster the growth 
of the personal computing marketplace, a 
growth which will provide a wider range of 
options for both users and suppliers of 
products. 

The User's Eye View 

The need of a parallel interface standard 
from the user's point of view is readily 
perceived. The parallel interface standard 
will be the personal computing equivalent of 
what exists in the audio equipment industry: 
a widely manufactured, readily available 
physical interconnection with logically and 
electrically compatible signal definitions. 
The plug of choice in the audio field is the 
RCA style phono plug universally used to 
interconnect low level audio signals via 
shielded cables. This enables the purchaser 
of brand X turntable to plug it into a brand 
Y receiver using shielded cables of brand Z. 

The ideal for the parallel interface defini- 
tion in personal computing is similar. What is 
needed is a definition which will allow the 
owner of brand X processor to plug his 
system physically, logically and electronical- 
ly into a brand Y music synthesizer or brand 



Editorial By Carl Helmers 

Q graphics display, using brand Z cable 
assemblies. The interface definition to be 
created will at a minimum guarantee hard- 
ware compatibility. The applications soft- 
ware compatibility can be provided by the 
peripherals manufacturer in the form of 
simple relocatable routines with common 
functional documentation and detail code 
generation for the various microprocessor 
instruction sets. 

The user will see a much more highly 
desirable product if it contains provision for 
the standard interface, since he or she will 
then be able to interface a wide variety of 
specialized applications and systems oriented 
peripherals without the necessity of per- 
forming the systems engineering equivalent 
of reinventing the wheel at the interface 
level. 

The Manufacturer's Eye View 

The manufacturer of a product for the 
personal computing field has as a goal the 
maximization of sales, and hopefully as a 
result, the maximization of profits. This is a 
simplistic economic analysis which ignores 
the existence of specialized counter exam- 
ples, but it is generally valid in most cases. 

Continued on page 112 



Call for Papers 



PERSONAL COMPUTING 76 - Technical Session on Standards 



As part of the Personal Computing '76 
convention August 28-29, Atlantic City NJ, 
BYTE magazine will coordinate a technical 
session on areas of standardization for the 
personal computing field. The purpose of 
defining standards is to provide a consistent 
and workable set of specifications for inter- 
faces between different equipment which 
permit combined operation as a system. 
Standards are in the interest of manufactur- 
ers who will find wider markets as a result, 
and standards are in the interest of users 
who will benefit from a wider choice of 
compatible options. 

The following technical areas are identi- 
fied at this point in time: 

Audio Cassette Standard 

A provisional interchange standard for 
audio media was defined by a working 
meeting sponsored by BYTE magazine in 
November 1975. This standard will be re- 
viewed, and the idea of a higher performance 
audio media standard should also be consid- 
ered. 

Parallel Interface Standard 

The proposal here is to define a parallel 
interface standard for the connection of 
peripherals to central processors. The stan- 
dard should specify logical interface, electri- 
cal interface and possibly a set of preferred 
physical plug and receptacle designs. 

Software Interface Standard 

The proposal here is to define several 
byte sequential media independent record 
formats for data involved in interchange 
between systems. This standard will prove 



useful to the development of software mar- 
kets, and could be incorporated into the 
firmware of operating systems and loaders 
supplied with processors. 



Arrangements 

Individuals and firms wishing to partici- 
pate in the discussions should send written 
position papers on their area of interest to: 



Carl Helmers 
Editor, BYTE 
70 Main St 

Peterborough NH 03458 
Attention: Technical Standards 

Papers should be neatly typed camera ready 
copy which will be used as is to create a 
proceedings booklet to be distributed at the 
technical session. It is suggested that draw- 
ings be done using ink or felt tip pen, and 
that film ribbon be used for typewritten 
copy. 

The standardization categories of audio 
media, parallel interface definitions, and 
software data formats should not be viewed 
as exclusive. Identification of additional 
areas where standards are appropriate will 
also help the growth of the personal comput- 
ing field. 

It is expected that positions and propos- 
als presented at the Personal Computing '76 
show will be used as a starting point for the 
second annual BYTE magazine symposium 
on standards to be held later in the fall. 
Questions regarding standards activities and 
coordination of this session should be direct- 
ed to Carl Helmers at BYTE at the above 
address, or phone (603) 924-721 7." 




About the Cover 



Photo 1: Here is a black 
and white reproduction of 
a single frame of a wine 
pouring animation se- 
quence created by Steve 
Dompier using his Dazzle- 
mat ion program. The 
colors of the original re- 
produce as shades of gray- 
ness in this black and 
white picture. 



[This short account is 
based upon materials supplied 
by Harry Garland of Crom- 
memco. . . . CH] 



Imagine being able to look inside your 
computer memory, actually being able to see 
the individual bits. With this sort of X ray 
vision your computer memory could also 
serve as your computer display. Messages 
could be spelled out by lighting some bits 
and darkening others. Games could be 
played with clusters of bits forming game 
pieces and markers. Space War might be 
played with miniature rocket ship patterns 
zooming in, out and around the visible 
region of memory address space. The key 
element of hardware required to actually 
achieve this imagined result is a memory 
module which has provisions to map its 
contents onto a television screen. This is 
precisely what Cromemco has clone in 
creating its TV Dazzler product, the results 
of which were used to create this month's 
cover. 

The TV Dazzler hardware features two 
modes of operation providing high resolu- 
tion and low resolution generation of a 
television picture. Through software selec- 
tion the TV Dazzler can be programmed 
either as a 128 x 128 point black and white 
display, or as a 64 x 64 point colored 
display. The points of the display grid are 
tiny square regions on the screen which map 
into segments of the 2 K byte memory of 
the TV Dazzler module. 

In the high resolution "bit mapped" 
mode, TV Dazzler uses its 2 K byte memory 
as a means of storing 2'* = 16,382 bits 
required to generate a unique "on" or "off" 
value for each location of a 128 x 128 grid. 
This high resolution black and while mode is 
very effective for alphanumeric displays and 
detailed computer controlled images. 



In the low resolution "nybble mapped" 
mode, TV Dazzler uses its 2 K byte memory 
as a means of storing 2'^ = 4096 four bit 
nybbles of data needed to generate a color 
display on a 64 x 64 grid. Each nybble 
determines the color and intensity of the 
corresponding picture element on the grid. 
The most significant bit sets either high or 
low intensity, and the next three bits inde- 
pendently select the blue, green and red 
channels of the color TV signal. 

Like a metaphorical beachball, (see Janu- 
ary 1976 BYTE editorial), the Dazzler pro- 
vides the hardware for an incredible variety 
of applications. This variety is realized 
through the software for games and other 
purposes developed by people who buy and 
use this type of peripheral. One particular 
application of the peripheral is a program 
called Dazzlemation which was written by 
Steve Dompier. The purpose of Dazzlema- 
tion is to record an animated sequence of 
TV frames in color, then play these back. In 
order to make such a sequence, Dazzlema- 
tion is used to color in the appropriate 
regions of single frames which are stored in 
memory. Steve's standard demonstration se- 
quence shows a carafe of red wine being 
poured into a wine glass. One frame of the 
carafe sequence is illustrated by photo I. 
This is just one of an endless variety of 
computer generated animated displays which 
is made possible by programs like 
Dazzlemation. 

A second application of the Dazzlemation 
hardware was used to generate the pattern 
which forms the main portion of the cover. 
This is a program called Dazzler-LIFE which 
was written by Ed Hall. John Conway's 



6 



fascinating game of LIFE gains a new dimen- 
sion when it is displayed in color. Watching 
the patterns evolve can be intoxicating in 
black and white, but becomes truly addictive 
when color is used to illustrate the game 
board. In the Dazzler-LIFE program, the 
game begins in a drawing mode which allows 
the user to draw an initial colony of cells on 
the screen using controls from the ASCII 
keyboard. Then the evolution process is 
initiated with each succeeding generation 
being displayed on the screen with colors 
marking the health of each cell. Cells that 
are too crowded, or too remote, turn a 
flaming red color, then wither away. New- 
born cells first appear in green, then grow up 
to a mature blue color. The kaleidoscopic 
result is fascinating to watch. One frame of a 
colorful LIFE history was photographed for 
the cover. 

Still another application of the Dazzler is 
as a hardware game board for sophisticated 
computer automated games. One example of 
such an application is the Tic Tac Toe 
software written by George Tate. Dazzler 
Tic Tac Toe is written in BASIC, and 
demonstrates how very well suited the MITS 
BASIC is for creating colorful creations. 
George's program is one of a class of "man 
versus computer" game applications, and is 
reputed to be extremely competent at Tic 
Tac Toe. A sample of the output is repro- 
duced here in black and white as photo 2. 

A useful utility program for the Dazzler, 
which demonstrates the bit mapped mode 
of operation is the Dazzlewriter software 
created by Ed Hall. This program turns your 
ASCII keyboard/computer/Dazzler combina- 
tion into a TV typewriter by generating the 
5x7 dot matrix display for each keyboard 
character. A sample of Dazzlewriter activity 
is shown in photo 3. Since the main memory 
of the computer is used to store the charac- 
ter generation information, there is no need 
for any additional hardware beyond the 
memory requirements of Dazzlewriter. 

Another delightful application of the 
display is an "idling" program you'll pro- 
bably want to leave in the computer system 
when you're not using it for another pur- 
pose. This program is Li-Chen Wang's color- 
ful Kaleidoscope program. The program is 
surprisingly short, just 127 bytes long, yet it 
generates an unending sequence of captiva- 
ting patterns. 

These programs were created by some of 
the first individuals who had access to the 
Dazzler hardware. They are written for the 
8080 instruction set (except George Tate's 
BASIC Tic Tac Toe) and are available in 
paper tape form from Cromemco at $15 
each." 




Photo 2: Here is the game board of George Tate's Tic Tac Toe application, 
written in MITS Altair BASIC with the TV Dazzler as its display peripheral. 



MEMORV SIZE? 
TERMINAL WIDTH? 
DflZZLE-URITER 
RUNNING WITH 
8K BASIC ■ ! ! 1 



Photo 3: Here is a sampling of outputs generated using Ed Hall's 
Dazzlewriter program to turn the TV Dazzler -/computer/ 'keyboard combina- 
tion into the logical equivalent of a TV typewriter style display. 



A Small Business Accounting System 



Or, How Your Microcomputer Can Take the Worry Out of Tax Time 



The least sophisticated 
form of bookkeeping is 
single entry accounting; it 
is not, however, generally 
suitable for preparing fi- 
nancial statements for 
banks, investing brothers- 
in-law, and so forth. 



Double entry bookkeeping 
has the advantage of incor- 
porating redundancy and 
error checking techniques. 
It is the most common 
form of business 
accounting. 



John A Lehman 
716 Hutchins #2 
Ann Arbor Ml 48103 



Here's an outline of an accounting system 
suitable for small business use on a micro- 
computer. It is designed for a small, inexpen- 
sive system having a central processor, Tele- 
type IO, one or preferably two cassette tapes 
for storage, and a high level language facil ity 
such as BASIC. It could probably be written 
in assembly language, but at a price of 
inconvenience. The system is designed to be 
used by an individual proprietorship (one 
man business) or a small partnership. While 
perhaps suitable as a bookkeeping system for 
a small corporation, it is not intended to 
produce the sort of reports which various 
regulatory agencies may require of one. It is 
designed to keep books, produce tax returns 
(either Form 1040 schedule C for pro- 
prietorships or Form 1065 for partnerships), 
produce balance sheets which may be re- 
quired either for management information 
or for the information of banks and other 
outside investors, and to be adaptable for 
check reconciliation, cash budgets, pro 
forma balance sheets and the like. Its use 
requires about the same amount of time and 
effort as keeping a journal would normally, 
with the added advantage that the entries are 
pretty much self checking. All other reports 
are produced by the programs which would 
be used. I'll try to describe the system in 
enough detail so that anyone who is skilled 
in BASIC and knows a little about account- 
ing could write a program to do all of the 
above. 

First, however, it might be a good idea to 
take a quick look at accounting systems and 
what they're used for. 

Of the various systems available, the 



simplest is the single entry system. A check 
book is a good example; each time money 
goes in or out, a notation is made of the 
date, the amount, and any comments on 
sources, uses, etc. This sort of system is 
obviously very simple to keep, and has the 
additional advantage of being accepted by 
the IRS for preparing tax returns. However, 
it has a number of disadvantages. The first is 
that it is not self checking, as anyone who 
has ever tried to balance a checkbook can 
testify. Also, while capable of producing an 
"income statement" (the generic term for 
what a tax return amounts to), it is not 
suitable for the preparation of other finan- 
cial statements that may be required by 
banks, investing brothers-in-law and so forth. 
These disadvantages make a single entry 
accounting system unsuitable for the system 
under discussion here. 

Double Entry Accounting 

The other major accounting system is the 
double entry system. It was invented about 
600 years ago, and came into widespread use 
because it was self checking. It is also quite a 
bit more complicated than a single entry 
system. The basic idea behind the double 
entry system is that each transaction has two 
parts: where money comes from and where 
it goes. So each transaction is entered twice, 
each time in a different account. The mech- 
anism behind this is the idea of debits 
(DR) and credits (CR). Very briefly, a debit 
represents an addition to something which 
you have (an asset) or to an expense. A 
credit represents a subtraction from one of 
these. On the other hand, a debit represents 
a subtraction from something which you 
owe or from a revenue, while a credit 
represents an addition to one of these. All of 
which can be very confusing. 

As a quick example, suppose you pay 



$100 on your BankAmericard and receive 
$150 for some service which you performed. 
You would debit accounts payable (sub- 
tracting from what you owe) for $100, and 
credit cash (subtracting from something you 
have) for $100. Then you would debit cash 
(adding to something you have) for $150, 
and credit income or revenue (adding to 
revenue) for $150. The self checking feature 
is provided by the fact that debits must 
always equal credits. It would probably be a 
good idea to look through a beginning 
accounting book to get more examples to 
help explain accounting techniques. I've 
listed some at the end of the article. 

Besides being self checking, a double 
entry system has the advantage of being able 
to churn out all sorts of reports on what is 
going on in the business in question. The 
IRS approves of it; and in fact, large 
companies have no choice — they have to 
use it. Now that we've described the major 
accounting systems, let's get on to what they 
do and how they can be used in a computer- 
ized system. 

The purpose of any accounting system is 
to provide information (another purpose is 
to provide employment for accountants, of 
course). This information is of use to various 
people. The owner of a business uses it to 
see how well he's doing, and more impor- 
tant, where he's not doing so well. Another 
important user is your friendly local IRS 
agent; anyone in business is required to 
produce accounting reports to the Internal 
Revenue Service's specifications. Banks and 
other investors also are likely to be quite 
interested in this sort of information, espe- 
cially when their services are requested for 
loans rather than for deposits. Corporations 
are also required to provide statements to 
various government agencies, but we're not 
going to be concerned with that here. 

The basic statements and reports were 
mentioned earlier. The first is the balance 
sheet such as the one shown in figure I. 
This represents the financial state of the 
company at a particular time. The left hand 
side (in the US at least) represents assets, or 
what the firm has. The right hand side 
represents liabilities and equities. (Liabilities 
and Equities is accounting terminology for 
where the stuff on the left came from.) 
Liabilities are amounts owed; equities are 
amounts contributed or earned by the own- 
er(s). The second statement is the income 
statement. As was mentioned above, a tax 
return is a species of income statement. This 
shows what happened over a period of time. 
Other statements, such as the cash budget 
and the pro forma balance sheet, show what 
may happen in the future. These are the 





ASSETS: 




LIABILITIES: 




Cash 




1000 


Payables 


2000 


Receivables 


2000 


Notes from bank 


1000 


Equipment 


4000 












EQUITY: 




Total 




7000 


Proprietor 


4000 








Total 








7000 



Figure I: The Balance Sheet. This document shows the current financial state 
of a business operation. It is used by businesses large and small, and is one of 
the end products of the automated accounting system. 



ASSETS (Debit to add. Credit to 
subtract) 



EXPENSES (Debit to add, Credh 


:to 


subtract) 




Return & Allowances 


RTN 


Depreciation* 


DEP 


Business Taxes* 


TAX 


Rent 


RNT 


Repairs* 


RPR 


Salaries & Wages 


SAL 


Insurance 


INS 


Professional fees 


PRF 


Commissions 


COM 


Amortization* 


AMT 


Pension/Profit sharing 


PEN 


Interest 


INT 


Bad Debts 


BDB 


Depletion 


DPL 


Other (specify if common, eg: 


MIS 


Fuel 


FUL 


Electricity 


PWR 


Telephone 


FON 


Cost of Goods Sold which 


CGS 


includes 




Purchases 


PUR 


Materials/supplies 


MAT 


Other costs 


OTR 


Labor (used for or directly 




related to 




Production — does not include 




money paid to you) 


LAB 



Cash 

Receivables 

Inventory 

Prepaid expenses 

Supplies 

Equipment 

Investments 

Misc. 



CSH 
RBL 
INV 
PPD 
SUP 
EOT 
IVS 
ETC 



LIABILITIES & EQUITY (Credit to add, 
debit to subtract) 



Payables 

Notes' 

Long Term Payables 

Proprietor 

Drawing 



PBL 
NOT 
LTP 
PRP 
DRW 



REVENUES (Credit to add. Debit to 
subtract) 

Gross Receipts RCP 

Other Revenue REV 



Mtems for which the IRS requires supplementary schedules or statements 



Figure 2: Account Files Example. When the double entry accounting system 
is designed, one of the first steps is to create a list of accounts and their 
corresponding mnemonic codes. The mnemonic codes are used internally by 
the computer in order to save memory space. If you are lavish with memory, 
texts of the long names could be looked up in a table when you generate 
reports. 



statements which our system is going to be 
able to churn out. Now, having got an 
overview of what we're trying to do, let's 
take a look at our data base requirements. 

The first thing we are going to need here 
is a set of names for our accounts. This is a 
"chart of accounts" to use the jargon of the 
accounting trade. A small system such as 
ours will need about 35 of these, selected for 
the most part to make our output match 




Figure 3: An Accounting 
System Flow Chart. This is 
a software system flow 
chart which identifies the 
major program com- 
ponents of an accounting 
system. The representation 
assumes that tape files will 
be used to maintain mass 
storage on your personal 
system; floppy disks with 
sequential access file orga- 
nizations could be used as 
well. 




CASH 

BUDGET 



PRO FORMA 

BALANCE 

SHEET 



what the IRS requires. In order to save 
memory space in the programs, each of these 
accounts is also given a three letter mne- 
monic code. Two letters would be possible, 
but some ease of use would be sacrificed. 
Figure 2 gives a sample list of accounts and 
mnemonics, broken down by classification. 
A brief explanation of some of the accounts 
might be in order. Returns and Allowances is 
for goods which are returned for one reason 
or another. Its purpose is to reduce the 
amount in gross receipts while keeping the 
amount of returns separate. The category 
SAL includes only those wages paid which 
are not included in cost of goods sold (CGS). 
This would involve such things as clerical 



help. INT is interest paid, not received. BDB 
(bad debts) is used if we want to use the 
specific charge off method of accounting for 
such unfortunate happenings. The IRS also 
allows use of another method, called the 
reserve method, but it is more complicated. 
DPL (depletion) is used for things like oil 
wells and mines. DEP (depreciation) is used 
for equipment, machines and the like, while 
AMT (amortization) is used to charge part of 
the cost of such things as organization 
expense, capitalized research and develop- 
ment and so forth. Some of these things can 
be listed as assets when the money is first 
spent, and the cost spread over several 
periods. For details see the IRS books listed 
at the end of the article. Cost of goods sold 
(CGS) is the total of the costs incurred to 
get something ready for sale; the breakdown 
is listed below it. Cash (CSH) is mostly 
checking account balances. Receivables 
(RBL) arc what customers owe you on 
account. Payables (PBL) are what you owe 
on account. Proprietor (PRP) is what you 
put into the business and what it has earned 
so far. Drawing (DRW) is the account you 
use to take money out of the business for 
personal uses. Notes (NOT) is money bor- 
rowed from banks and other lenders. The 
rest should be pretty much self explanatory. 
These 35 or so accounts are the data files 
which we're going to be working from; all of 
the information we put into the system goes 
into them and all of the output uses them as 
building blocks. Now, having taken care of 
all of the groundwork, we are ready to start 
running information through the system. 

Reference to the system flow chart of 
figure 3 shows that the journal is the first 
thing we produce. It's shown being produced 
on tape, since that way we can use it to 
produce all of the other reports without 
having to type in any more material, at least 
until we come to the forecasts. Also, by 
writing our journal entries onto tape as soon 
as they're checked by the editing program, 
we save much memory space, since we need 
keep only a little bit of data in memory at 
any given time. So, in this automated sys- 
tem, the journal is the only file we really 
have to manipulate on a day by day basis. 
To use it, first we enter the date. Then we 
enter each transaction through the checking 
program which makes sure we have two 
entries for each amount and that the num- 
bers we give the machine match. A sample of 
a possible format is given as figure 4. We 
debit the power expense account (re- 
member, we debit an expense when we want 
to add to it) for $58, and enter the comment 
that this is for the month of March. Then we 
credit cash (to decrease it), but reverse the 



10 



numbers. The program sees that the debits 
do not equal the credits, and fires off an 
error message, prompting us to enter a 
correction. Note here that we include the 
check number; this is very important when it 
comes time to reconcile our records with 
what the bank statement says. Also, the 
editing program should provide the ability to 
debit and credit unequal numbers of ac- 
counts so long as the totals are equal. If this 
would be too much of a demand on memo- 
ry, amounts can be split up before entry. 
Going on, the OK indicates that the entries 
check, and at this point they should be 
written onto the tape. Entries for the journal 
can come from cash register tapes, bills, etc. 
Up through this point our system is about as 
much work as a manual system, but from 
here on in things get much easier. 

The next item on the system flow chart is 
the ledger. This is a set of files which puts all 
of the journal entries for each account 
together. In our system, there are two types: 
summary and detailed. In a more advanced 
system, all of the ledgers would be detailed, 
but this would require much more memory 
than most small systems would have avail- 
able. Basically, what we do at this point is 
have the program read the journal entries 
one by one and keep a running count of the 
amount for each of the different-accounts in 
use. Beginning balances may be read in 
either via the Teletype or via a separate 
ledger tape. The ending balances should be 
printed on the Teletype if the user wishes to 
see what they are, but they should also be 
saved on tape for use in preparing the rest of 
the statements. Detailed ledgers will require 
a separate run for each one desired; they 
might be run on a weekly or monthly basis. 
The most important one is the cash ledger, 
since this will provide a record of every 
check written and every deposit made to the 
checking account by date and number. This 
should make balancing one's checkbook a 
fairly simple task. The one thing to be 
careful of in this program is to be sure that 
the rules for addition and subtraction of 
debits and credits are carefully written into 



The balance sheet is a 
snapshot of the current 
status of the business. 



the program. Otherwise all that will come 
out is garbage. 

Once we have the ledger, it's fairly easy 
to see how the balance sheet is generated. A 
look back at figure 1 will show that there are 
only about a dozen of the ledger accounts 
which have to be put together. All of the 
asset accounts are added together, and the 
sum is listed at the bottom of the column as 
total. Subtracting the sum of the liabilities 
from the sum of the assets leaves what is left 
for the owner. If the amount in the drawing 
account is set beforehand, that leaves only 
the Proprietor (PRP) account to be 
"plugged," which is to say, given whatever 
value is necessary to make the two columns 
come out equal. So, if the assets total 
$7000, the liabilities total $3000 and there 
are $500 in the drawing account, that leaves 
7000-3000-500=3500 for PRP. The only 
other detail is that the program should either 
write the date at the top, or it should be 
filled in by hand. A balance sheet may be 
prepared at any time; it will often be 
required for getting a loan from a bank. 
Besides being run on paper, it should be run 
onto tape for use in preparing forecasts. 

Probably the most important report 
which our system will prepare is the income 
statement. This is a report which shows what 
has happened over a period; usually a year, 
but often prepared on a quarterly or a 
monthly basis. Us importance arises not so 
much from the fact that people like to see 
how much money they've made as from the 
fact that the government is quite interested 
in this information — so they can take their 
cut, of course. The system being illustrated 
produces an income statement patterned 



Figure 4: An Example of the Interactive Dialog with the Journal Edit 
Program. The purpose of this program is to filter your own manual inputs 
looking for certain known discrepancies which can be detected by the double 
entry bookkeeping method. In this example, upper case letters are the 
computer output to a Teletype (or video terminal) and the lower case letters 
indicate manual keyboard inputs taken from daily activity records such as 
receipts, checks written, etc. 



A mass storage file comes 
in handy for business ac- 
counting, since much of 
the work involved is ac- 
complished by reviewing 
the same data with dif- 
ferent criteria to produce 
reports. 



Interactive program for journal entries might read: 

ENTER NAME OF ACCOUNT DEBITED,AMOUNT,AND COMMENTS SEPARATED BY COMMAS: 

pwr, 58, march 

ENTER ACCOUNT CREDITED.AMOUNT.AND COMMENTS SEPARATED BY COMMAS: 

csh, 85, check 346 

DEBITS DO NOT EQUAL CREDITS-ENTER IF DR OR CR TO BE CHANGED: 

cr 

ENTER ACCOUNT CREDITED.AMOUNT.AND COMMENTS SEPARATED BY COMMAS: 

csh, 58, check 346 

OK 

ENTER NAME OF ACCOUNT DEBITED.AMOUNT.AND COMMENTS SEPARATED BY COMMAS: 

iam done 

OK GOODBYE 



11 



«h[duu c 1 Profit or (Lou) From Boilooto or Profoulon 


WIS 




.„,.. _«_— 


■•-- 


["■ "***" 




'5EL™ — 




a 


j IsHr; =■--—--—■-■ -• i 


















ii—iiiiLl'irZ 





| 






'] 












":".'.:" : ,, ::r:\r ], ::;. , :r "' —** --• n 


-■■'■""■"-■""''I „ 




;s.-Z2^s= 


- „_..| ; 




- 


■ 1 '."r.™^,^'z^',„ 1 J 









Figure 5: The object of 
much of this program ac- 
tivity is filling out IRS 
Schedule C for your small 
business. 



after Form 1040 Schedule C (figure 5), but 
could produce Form 1065 for partnerships 
with minor changes. As is fairly obvious to 
those who can wade their way through the 
governmentese, what we have to do here is 
state all income and then subtract expenses. 
The accounts which we have been working 
with will do this on what is called an accrual 
basis, which is to say future expenses and 
revenues are included if they are certain and 
we know how much money is involved. For 
example, if we have charge customers, we 
include what they are scheduled to pay us in 
revenues. For a small business it is often 
better to file a tax return on the cash basis in 
which only cash in is considered revenue and 
cash out is considered expense. This system 
can prepare cash basis returns too; one must 
eliminate receivables, payables, prepaid ex- 
penses and materials and supplies not yet 
part of cost of goods sold. The effect of all 
of these should be taken out of the revenue 
and expense accounts too. 

That's the basic system. Using this system 
alone would be a pretty respectable account- 
ing setup for a small business. But as long as 
we're using a personal microcomputer, we 
might think of adding a few bells and 
whistles. These would pretty much depend 
on individual wants. We could have the 
computer automatically calculate FICA de- 
ductions when payroll expense is debited. 
We might also have the machine figure our 
depreciation and amortization schedules for 



GLOSSARY 

Accrual: Including payments and receipts in the 
future. 

Check reconciliation: Accounting buzzword for 
balancing a checkbook. 

Credit (CR): An addition to the righthand side of 
the balance sheet or to income. 

Debit (DR): An addition to the lefthand side of 
the balance sheet or to an expense. 

Journal: The accounting equivalent of a check 
register. 



us. For this we would need (for each item or 
class of items) initial value, estimated life 
and age. For tax purposes we would want to 
get our annual depreciation by taking two 
divided by the life of the object and multi- 
plying the total times the remaining value. In 
more symbolic form: 

(2/total life)* (initial — depreciation). 

This would give us the depreciation to date 
and the amount for this year, both of which 
are needed for the flip side of the tax form. 
We could also do forecasting with the 
system. For this we would want an inter- 
active program which would ask for esti- 
mated expenses and receipts in afl the 
different categories for x number of months. 
Then we would prepare a (pro forma) 
balance sheet for the end of the period if our 
predictions were correct, so that we could 
see where things would stand if the predic- 
tions came true. It could also prepare a 
month by month schedule to show whether 
the firm would have enough on hand to 
meet projected outflows. This is called a 
cash budget, and is quite a handy thing to 
have since it enables you to forecast cash 
shortages far enough in advance to do 
something about them, and also to compare 
the results of different courses of action. 

And there's the system. While not very 
fancy from either an accountant's or a 
system designer's point of view, it ought to 
be enough to handle much of the record- 
keeping for those firms on the other end of 
the spectrum from GM, IBM and ITT. It 
might be too that the availability of a few 
business oriented systems like this will help 
increase the sales of microcomputers and 
bring the prices down even more through 
mass production." 



REFERENCES 

1. Accounting Essentials, Margolis, Wiley and Sons 
1972. 

2. Elementary Accounting, College Outline Series 

#39. 



Ledger: Book or file which contains the totals 
from the journal broken down by categories. 

Payables: Amounts which will have to be paid in 
the future. 

Pro forma: Buzzword used to describe reports 
which show how things might be or might have 
been rather than what they are. 



3. Management Accounting, Anthony and Reece, 
Irwin, Inc, 1975 (Note: this is a college 
accounting textbook — heavy reading). 

4. Recordkeeping for a Small Business, IRS #583, 
1976. 

5. Tax Guide for Small Business, IRS #334, 1976 
(complete handbook). 



Proprietorship: A one man business; one owner. 

Receivables: Amounts which are not yet on hand 
in cash but which will definitely be coming in in 
the near future. 



6. Tax Information on Accounting Periods and 
Methods, IRS #538, 1975. 

The last three are available free from any IRS 
office. 



12 



MEET 

THE DIGITAL 

GROUP 



If you're taking time to read ""■-. 

this ad, we already know a thing or two 
about you. We know you're interested in 
devouring everything you can get your hands on that 
deals with microcomputer systems, and we also figure you're 
out there shopping around . . . looking for the most sensible pro- 
ducts to fit your needs and your budget. 

That's why we think you should get to know us. 

We're the Digital Group, a relatively small, 18-month-old organ- 
ization obstinately dedicated to providing quality in every product 
we offer. You may have already heard a little something about us 
from a friend — our reputation does seem to be getting around 
quickly, even though we've never advertised before. 

We think it's due to a number of important factors: state-of-the- 
art designs, a really complete systems philosophy, unexcelled quality, 
reasonable software, three-week delivery, and no pre-announcements 
until we're ready to deliver. Our products are not just a gleam in our 
designers' eyes; they are currently being delivered . . . fast! 
The Advantages 

Here are a few specific advantages of our product line: 

• We offer CPU's from different manufacturers which are inter- 
changeable at the CPU card level. That way, your system won't be- 
come instantly obsolete with each new design breakthrough. The 
major portion of your investment in memory and I/O is protected. 

• Digital Group systems are complete and fully featured, so there's 
no need to purchase bits and pieces from different manufacturers. 
We have everything you need, but almost any other equipment can be 
easily supported, too, thanks to the universal nature of our systems. 

• Our systems are specifically designed to be easy to use. With our 
combination of TV, keyboard, and cassette recorder, you have a sys- 
tem that is quick, quiet, and inexpensive. To get going merely power 
on, load cassette and go! 

• Design shortcuts have been avoided — all CPU's run at full maxi- 
mum rated speed. 

The Features 

Digital Group Systems — CPU's currently being delivered: 

8080A/9080A 6800 6500 by MOS Technology 

All are completely interchangeable at the CPU card level. Standard 

features with all systems: 

• Video-based operating system 

• Video/Cassette Interface Card 

512 character upper & lower case video interface 
100 character/second audio cassette interface 




• CPU Card 

2K RAM, Direct Memory Access (DMA) 
Vectored Interrupts 
256 byte 1702A bootstrap loader 
All buffering, CPU dependencies, 
and housekeeping circuitry 

• Input/Output Card 

Four 8-bit parallel Input ports 
Four 8-bit parallel Output ports 

• Motherboard 

Prices for standard systems as featured above, start at $425 for 8080 
or 6800 and $375 for 6500. 

More 
Many options, peripherals, expansion capabilities, and accessories 
are already available. They include rapid computer-controlled cassette 
drives for mass storage, color graphics, memory, I/O, monitors, multi- 
ple power supplies, prototyping cards, and others. Software packages 
include Tiny BASIC Extended, games, ham radio applications, soft- 
ware training cassettes, system packages, and more (even biorhythm). 

Sounds neat — now what? 

Now that you know a little about who we a re and what we' re doing, 
we need to know more about you. In order for us to get more infor- 
mation to you, please take a few seconds and fill in our mailing list 
coupon. We think you'll be pleased with what you get back. 



to 



THE DIGITAL GROUP, Inc. 
P.O. Box 6528 
Denver, Colorado 80206 
(303) 861-1686 



OK, I'd like to get to know you guys better. Send me the whole 
package! 

Name 

Address 

City/State/Zip 



What's 

New? 



16 Bits Doth a General Purpose Minicomputer Make 




Photo I : Here is a pair of the new mN60l microNOVA chips which come in 
40 pin dual in line ceramic packages. The performance of the microNOVA 
processor is quite good as microcomputers go. The 16 bit accumulator to 
accumulator addition time is quoted as 2.4 jus, and the accumulator load time 
is quoted as 2.9 jus. This compares very favorably with the original Data 
General NOVA minicomputer performance of several years ago. 




A new option in the high performance 16 
bit microcomputer field has now arrived on 
the scene. This is the Data General micro- 
NOVA, introduced early in March as BYTE's 
June issue went to the press. Here is another 
instance of a widely available minicomputer 
architecture being made available in the 
form of a relatively inexpensive micro- 
computer. 

For those who are new to the computer 
field, the Data General NOVA line of mini- 
computers is one of the oldest and most 
widely used products in the conventional 
minicomputer product area. NOVAs are 
available with performance which now 
ranges from the microcomputer chip level to 
the complete general purpose data pro- 
cessing systems represented by the top of 
the line ECLIPSE computer. NOVAs have 
long been an option used by persons who 
purchased minicomputers as combination 
business/pleasure computers, and the new 
microNOVA product will expand this area 
of use. Based on the product description 
information supplied by Data General, here 
is a summary of the microNOVA product's 
semiconductor line: 

mN601: 40 pin package NMOS central 
processor. The full NOVA instruction archi- 
tecture is implemented in a single chip 
design, which also includes several additional 
features not generally found in NOVA 
computers: 

• hardware stack and frame pointer 

• SAVE and RETURN instructions for 
efficient subroutine linkages 

• 16 bit hardware multiply and divide 

• real time clock 

• memory management logic: memory 



Photo 2: One of the 
simplest systems products 
above the chip set level is 
the microNOVA computer 
on a board product, Model 
8563. This version of the 
microNO VA one board 
computer includes 4 K 
words of semiconductor 
memory and the ability to 
run software accumulated 
during Data General's 
eight year history with the 
NO VA computer line. 



14 



control, timing and hidden refresh 
logic for dynamic RAMs. 

• device data channel control 

mN603: 40 pin package, NMOS, 10 
controller. This is an integrated circuit de- 
signed to implement the standard NOVA 10 
instruction set via DMA operations. 

System Buffer Elements: A family of 
several integrated circuits designed to pro- 
vide system expansion capabilities. 

Data General provides a fully integrated line 
of hardware packaging and software support 
to accompany this microNOVA system. 
Data General primarily orients its products 
towards the OEM and systems integration 
markets, so this product will probably prove 
most attractive to a fairly sophisticated 
personal computing user, or to the person 
who works with OEM computing as part of 
his or her professional activities. But for 
those who know how to specify and pur- 
chase a minicomputer system, a floppy disk 
based microNOVA system with BASIC or 
FORTRAN capabilities could prove to be a 
quite powerful personal computing system 
useful for both business and pleasure 
pursuits. 

Data General Corporation is located in 
Southboro MA 01772. Sales and service 
offices are located in major cities." 







Photo 3: For the do it yourself systems house, Data General provides a 
complete line of modular components which can be integrated to form a 
microNOVA system. One of the most interesting characteristics of the 
microNOVA s integrated to the minicomputer level is a "Programmer's 
Helper" remote console packaged in a calculator style case at the end of a 
ribbon cable. The console is shown in its storage position in the front panel 
assembly at the center ol this picture. 



MODEL CC-7 SPECIFICATIONS: 

A. Recording Mode: Tape saturation binary. 
This is not an FSK or Home type recorder. 
No voice capability. No Modem. (NR2) 

B. Two channels (1) Clock, (21 Data. OR, Two 
data channels providing four (4) tracks on 
the cassette. Can also be used for Bi-Phase, 
Manchester codes etc. 

C. Inputs: Two (2). Will accept TTY, TTL or 
RS 232 digital. 

D. Outputs: Two (2). Board changeable from 
RS 232 to TTY or TTL digital. 

E. Runs at 2400 baud or less. Synchronous or 
Asynchronous. Runs at 4800 baud or less. 
Synchronous or Asynchronous. Runs at 
3.1 "/see. Speed regulation ±.5% 

F. Compatability : Will interface any computer 
or terminal with a serial I/O. (Altair, Sphere, 
M6800, PDP8, LSI 1 1 , etc.) 

G. Other Data: (110-220 V), (50-60 Hz); 3 
Watts total; UL listed 955D; three wire line 
cord; on/off switch; audio, meter and light 
operation monitors. Remote control of mo- 
tor optional. Four foot, seven conductor 
remoting cable provided. Uses high grade 
audio cassettes. 

H. Warrantee: 90 days. All units tested at 110 
and 2400 baud before shipment. Test cas- 
sette with 8080 software program included. 
This cassette was recorded and played back 
during quality control. 

ALSO AVAILABLE: MODEL CC-7A with vari- 
able speed motor. Uses electronic speed control 
at 4"/sec. or less. Regulation * .2% 
Runs at 4800 baud Synchronous or Asynchro- 
nous without external circuitry. 
Recommended for quantity users who ex- 
change tapes. Comes with speed adjusting tape 
to set exact speed. 



DIGITAL DATA RECORDER $149.95 
FOR COMPUTER or TELETYPE USE 

Any baud rate up to 4800 




Uses the industry standard tape satura- 
tion method to beat all FSK systems ten to 
one. No modems or FSK decoders required. 
Loads 8K of memory in 17 seconds. This 
recorder, using high grade audio cassettes, 
enables you to back up your computer by 
loading and dumping programs and data fast 
as you go, thus enabling you to get by with 
less memory. Can be software controlled. 

Master Charge & BankAmericard accepted. 

On orders for Recorders and Kits please add 
S2.00 for Shipping & Handling. 
(N.J. Residents add 5% Sales Tax) 

MTIOML multiplex 

CORPORA TION 

3474 Rand Avenue, Box 288 
South Plainfield, New Jersey 07080 
(201) 561-3600 



NOW AVAILABLE 

RECORD/PLAYBACK AMPLIFIER KIT 

This expanded version of our Computer 
Aid board can be used with your own deck 
(cassette or reel to reel). Go to 9600 baud 
on reel to reel with suitable heads. Digital 
in, digital out, serial format. Kit includes all 
parts, case and power supply. $59.95 

COMING SOON - IN KIT FORM 



I/O Board for use with Computer Aid or 
other digital recorders. Variable baud rate 
selectable on externally located unit by 
one knob. Can load computer or accept 
dumps without software, thus providing 
Turnkey Operation. For any 8 bit compu- 
ter. Automatic semi DMA operation of 
cassettes with automatic return to termi- 
nal a 3SIO board for a complete COS with 
the Altair or Imsai. 
S100 Kit. $1 50.00 wired and tested. 

* Hexadecimal or Octal Keyboard — Load 
programs direct from keyboards' 20 keys 
and verifying display. Does not use Com- 
puter I/O. Can be wired Octal or Hex. — 
Your choice. 

* Interested in these? Send your name and 
address for brochure when released. 

Send One dollar for Cassette Operating and 
Maintenance Manual with Schematics and 
Software control data for 8080 and 6800. 
Also applies to Kit above. (Postpaid) 



15 



Build a Television Display 



C W Gantt Jr 
6 Fieldpoint Rd 
Aurora IL 60538 



FIRST LINE, 
FIRST FRAME 



As a small system expands and becomes 
more sophisticated, the limiting factor is 
often the speed of input and output (10). In 
addition to being noisy, mechanical, and 
paper consuming, the slow clacking of a 
TTY may account for a large percentage of 
system time. Among the alternatives, the 
display of characters on a standard TV set is 
among the simplest and most economical 
methods. 

This TV display (TVD) is designed to 
take data from 512 bytes of memory and 
convert it into a video signal with 16 lines of 
32 characters. This can be used to feed a 
black and white or color TV. The data in the 
TVD memory is in a six bit ASCII subset 
and is updated by the CPU to create the 
desired display. The processor addresses the 
TVD memory just as it docs any other 
portion of memory and can actually execute 
instructions from the TVD memory if so 
programmed. Of course, some provisions 

FIRST LINE. SECOND FRAME 



HORIZONTAL 
RETRACE 




IORIZONTAL 
SYNC 
STARTS 



HORIZONTAL 

SYNC 

STARTS 



SIMPLIFIED INTERLACED RASTER SCAN 



Figure I : This shows how the electron beam is moved during an interlaced 
scan in a television monitor. The dashed lines are quick retrace motions which 
are normally invisible. The solid lines are periods during which the display 
presents video information controlling brightness on the tube face. 



must be made to prevent the CPU and TVD 
from simultaneously accessing the TVD 
memory (more about this below). 

As designed, the TVD is strictly a display 
device with the central processor of your 
system doing all housekeeping (entering 
characters, etc). This approach simplifies the 
hardware at the expense of extra software, 
but also allows the user to take advantage of 
the flexibility offered by software data 
manipulation and formatting. 

At present one TVD is up and running in 
my system, but the memory and central 
processor interfaces are incomplete. The 
remainder of this article therefore empha- 
sizes the TVD design and only offers some 
basic ideas on interfacing to processors. 
Although simple items such as the power 
supply and oscillators have been omitted, 
the information furnished should be suffi- 
cient for the more experienced readers to 
assemble a working version. The straight 
forward TVD design allows easy modifica- 
tion to meet individual system requirements. 

Television Raster Scanning 

Before going too deeply into operation of 
the TVD, a review of the basic television 
scanning system will clarify some terms with 
which pure digital designers may not be 
familiar. 

A television picture is formed by scanning 
an electron beam across the face of the 
picture tube. A TV line is one sweep of the 
electron beam from the left of the picture 
tube to the right (as viewed from the front 
of ihe set) and is initiated by the horizontal 
sync (see figure 1). The horizontal sync 
pulse causes termination of a line, horizontal 
retrace of the electron beam back to the left 
side of the screen, and the start of a new 
line. During the time of retrace the beam is 
blanked so that the retrace will not be seen. 
The time allotted for each complete line 
(including retrace) is 63.5 microseconds. Of 
this about 16% is taken by retrace, leaving 
53.5 /is of usable line. Video information in 
the form of a voltage fed to the picture tube 



16 




Photo 1: This is a test 
display pattern generated 
by connecting the low 
order outputs of the char- 
acter and line counters to 
the character generator 
ROM's 6 input bits. The 
result presents every com- 
bination of the character 
set, so every character pat- 
tern is visible on the 
screen. 



controls the brightness of the beam as it is 
swept across the screen. 

To trace out a frame, the electron beam is 
slowly deflected from the top of the screen 
to the bottom as it rapidly sweeps horizontal 
lines. This vertical sweep is allotted 16.67 
milliseconds (60 Hz) so there arc 2621/2 lines 
in one frame. In a manner similar to the 
horizontal sync, the vertical sync causes the 
beam to be returned to the top of the screen 
to start a new frame. The beam is blanked 
during vertical retrace which takes about 
1250 ^s. This leaves 242 usable lines in each 
frame. 

A complete picture is formed by two 
consecutive frames that are interlaced with 
each other. Interlacing means that the hori- 
zontal lines of one frame fit in between the 
horizontal lines of the other frame. The 
result is 30 complete pictures every second 
of about 484 usable (525 total) lines each. 
Because of the interlacing, however, the 
screen is illuminated at a 60 Hz rate. This 
eliminates an objectionable "flicker" that 
would be seen if the screen were only 
scanned at a 30 Hz rate. 

The TV signal received at the antenna 
terminals contains the information needed 
to generate the vertical and horizontal sync, 
blanking, and video. The TVD simulates a 
TV signal by supplying a composite wave 
form containing the same information nor- 
mally present except sound. The full 



schematic of this TVD design (except 
memory) is shown in figure 2. 

Character Generation 

The scanning nature of the TV raster 
requires that the video (or brightness) infor- 
mation be sent in serial form to control the 
electron beam as it sweeps lines across the 
screen. Suppose, for example, that the 
character "H" is to be displayed as shown in 
figure 3. The first line can be represented as 
10001, ones signifying light spots (dots) and 
zeros signifying dark spots. The remaining 
six lines can similarly be represented as a 
series of dots and dark spaces. When the 
seven lines are displayed one above the 
other, the character "H" is seen. 

The tedious job of deciding where to put 
the dots (ones versus zeros) to generate a 
given character is done by the 2513 read 
only memory, IC14. It has been mask 
programmed at the factory with the bit 
patterns required for 64 separate five by 
seven dot matrix characters. The 2513 sup- 
plies five bits of parallel output data repre- 
senting one line of a given character. It 
requires the six bit ASCII subset code of the 
character and the three bit line number as 
inputs. The five bit parallel output of the 
2513 is converted to serial data by the 
74165 shift register, IC15. To produce one 
line of video, five bits arc required for each 
character in the line, plus spacing bits. Note 



17 



8L 




•* ajnBij ui Aijomddouoo umoi/s synD.ip A.iouiaw m/j jo Bui.iia\ pa/iofrp sjiluo }/ -uoijojauaB rio/ds/p uoiSMa/3] joj o/Bo/ 
pnuoopuD Ajj.mo.ip uoiiDjaudB dsoq duuij ayjjo s/iDidpsdpnpui lUD.iBoip siy± '/(Ofdst(] /\ ± dip jo ludjBoiq ojjDUjaifDS .*g dJnBij 



that the TVD generates two identical inter- 
laced frames to make a complete picture. 
The result is that each character is actually 
14 lines high. 

Sync Generator 

The MM5320 sync generator chip, IC13, 
uses a single 2.0 MHz input to produce all 
the sync and blanking signals needed for a 
525 line interlaced raster. The same logic 
could be wired using TTL but would require 
considerably more hardware and probably 
cost just as much. (The 5320 runs $4.95 ppd 
from NEXUS Trading Co, Box 3357, San 
Leandro CA 94578.) The only disadvantage 
<iw>v,d thus far with the 5320 is that it 
prefers a square wave 2 MHz source. To this 
end the 100 nanoseconds pulse from the 
7490 "D" output is squared using two 7400 
sections of IC1 as a oneshot. 

Line Generation 

Horizontal drive (coincident with hori- 
zontal sync) from the 5320 triggers a 74121 
oneshot, IC1, to delay the start of each line 
and establish the left hand margin on the 
screen. The output of the oneshot serves 
three purposes: 

1. Triggers the 74192 row counter, IC2. 

2. Resets the 74193 character counters, 
IC11 and IC12. 

3. Inhibits the dot counter, IC9, until the 
start of the line. 

When the line oneshot output pulse ends, 
the dot counter starts counting at 5 MHz. It 
resets itself every seventh count to allow for 
the five dots of the character plus a two dot 
space between characters. When the dot 
counter resets, it also loads the next charac- 
ter into the 74165 shift register, IC15. (The 
very first character of each line fs all zeros 
since the 74165 is not loaded until the dot 
counter resets the first time.) The 74165 
shifts out the two dot space and the five dot 
character at a 5 MHz rate. As each character 
is loaded, the 74193 character counter incre- 
ments by one to change the address for the 
RAM to the next character. When the 32nd 
load pulse occurs, the 5 MHz input to the 
dot counter is inhibited using the "B" 
output of the second 74193 character 
counter. The 74165 continues to shift out 
the 32nd (last) character and then shifts out 
a steady zero. When the character counters 
are reset at the start of the next line, the 
process repeats itself. 

Line Counter 

The 741 92, IC2, counts each video line dis- 
played. It counts to 10 for the seven lines of 
character information plus a three line space. 




5 DOT WIDE BY 7 DOT 
HIGH CHARACTER 



The "A", "B", and "C" outputs control the 
row inputs to the 2513 character generator 
chip. The first video line is all zeros since the 
row input to the 2513 is zero. Lines 9 and 
10 are blanked using output "D" of the 
74192, resulting in a total of three lines 
blanked. At the end of each complete line of 
characters, the 74193 line counter, IC3, 
increments by one until, at the end of the 
16th line, a carry pulse is produced. This 
carry pulse resets the 7490, IC5, and signi- 
fies the end of a page. Output "A" of the 
7490 is used to inhibit the 7492 dot counter 
and prevent the first line from being 
repeated at the bottom of the page. 

Page Control 

The 7490, IC5, stays reset until the top 
of the next page. Output "A" can be used to 
tell the memory control circuits that the 
TVD is not using the memory so that any 
required updates may be made by the CPU. 
Output "A" also inhibits the "B Clock" 
input via the 741 0. The "D" output inhibits 
the line oneshot. 

When a vertical drive pulse (coincident 
with vertical sync) triggers the 74121 page 
oneshot, IC6, the TV set syncs to the top of 
the next frame. The page oneshot delays the 
start of the first line to establish the top 
margin. At the end of the oneshot's output, 
IC5, bit "A" is clocked to a one. This tells 
the memory control that the TVD needs to 
resume control of the memory address and 
also enables the IC5 "B Clock" input via the 
7410, IC7. The "B" section of the 1C5 then 
proceeds to count color burst gate pulses to 
give the memory time to complete any 
access already in progress. The color burst 
gate was used only because it was convenient 
and occurs at the same rate as the horizontal 
drive — the horizontal drive could be used at 
the expense of a buffer since the 5320 can 



Figure 3: An example of a 
dot matrix pattern gen- 
erated by the television 
display. 



19 



ADDRESS BUS 



DATA 
FROM 
RAM v. 
6 OR 8 LINES^ 



TV 
DISPLAY 



ADDRESS 

TO 

RAM X 
9 LINES* 



LOAD 



AVAILABLE 



READ/ WRITE 



SELECT 
DECODE 



MEM 

CTL 



5I2X6IOR8) 
RAM 



4£ 



TRI-STATE 
BUFFER 



READ / WRITE 
MEMORY 
■ READY 



8 LINES 



DATA BUS 



SYSTEM 
INTERFACES 



Figure 4: System Diagram. This figure details how the TV display fits into a 
central processor's memory address space. The low order 9 lines of address go 
directly to the line and character counters of the TVD; the memory array is 
addressed by the outputs of the counters, which are connected logically to 
the address bus when the load line demands central processor access. The high 
order bits of the processor's address are decoded separately and are used to 
enable processor access If the TV display portion of address space is 
referenced. 

only drive one TTL load per output. When 
output "C" of the IC5 goes high, the line 
counters are reset. When output "D" goes 
high the "B clock" is inhibited via IC7b, and 
the line oneshot is enabled. This allows the 
first line to start. 

Composite Video Generation 

The video and sync are independently 
adjusted and then added to produce com- 
posite video. This can be piped directly into 
a set (be sure not to touch a hot chassis!) or 
used to modulate a low power RF source. A 
signal generator works fine for tests. (See 
"Television Interface" by Don Lancaster, 
page 20, October 1975 BYTE, for a 
thorough discussion of the various tricks to 
improve the interface.) 

Memory Interface 

Figure 4 illustrates how the TVD fits into 
a larger system. It is intended that the 
address outputs of the 74193 character and 
line counters (IC3 and IC11) be hard wired 
to the address lines of a 512 or 1 K by 6 
static random access memory using 2102s or 
similar parts. The data outputs of low order 
6 bits of this memory are the ASCII charac- 
ter select inputs to the 2513 character 
generator, IC14, and can be gated back to 
your system's data bus if you want the CPU 
to be able to read from the RAM. (Of 
course, a 512 by 8 memory would be needed 
if the CPU is to be able to use the RAM for 
other tasks.) The data inputs of the RAM tie 



to the data bus to allow the CPU to write 
into the RAM. 

To avoid breaking up the picture on the 
display during access, the memory control 
logic must use the "A" output of IC5 to tell 
when the CPU can use the RAM and when it 
must signal a busy to the CPU at the start of 
a page. There is more than ample time 
between the "A" output and the line 
counter reset to finish any access in progress. 
To use this feature, the memory busy line 
must be wired to your processor's "memory 
ready" line (possibly through an inverter if 
the logic of your particular compute! re- 
quires it). This method will work well for 
any processor, like the 8008 or 8080, which 
allows unlimited "memory busy" delays. 
However, for dynamic processors such as the 
6800, the maximum processor delay time of 
about 5,us dictates use of an alternative 
approach. One simple approach is to ignore 
the effect of memory access on the display. 
The result will be a short glitch in the 
display corresponding to each computer 
access. The nature of the glitch will be a 
resetting of the line and character counters 
to a new location, causing a scrambling of 
the display for the remainder of the current 
frame. A second approach is to wire the 
memory ready line into a single bit input 
port which can be tested as a status flag: If 
the line indicates a retrace, then the memory 
access software for the display will allow an 
update to occur. 

The CPU addresses the RAM through the 
character and line counters (IC3 and IC11) 
by tying their data inputs to the system 
address bus and using the load control of pin 
11. The 74193s can also be used as tem- 
porary storage for the address in a system 
with a common address and data bus. Note 
that the TVD does not interfere with CPU 
access to the remainder of the system's 
memory at any time and only delays the 
CPU by one of the techniques discussed 
above if it tries to access the TVD RAM 
while a page is being displayed. The CPU has 
the entire vertical retrace to make updates at 
once every 16.67 milliseconds. 

Lacking a memory for my initial testing, 
the 2513 data inputs were temporarily tied 
to the 74193 address outputs (2513 PIN 17 
to character Counter PIN 3, etc) to display 
the complete 2513 repertoire every two lines 
as in photo 1. The 74193 load lines must 
also be connected to a "one." 

Modifications and Adjustments 

1. There is one known bug so far and no 
doubt more will show up when the TVD is 
integrated into a system. The 7490 can, on 
power up, hang in state with both the "C" 



20 




Photo 2: Prototype Cir- 
cuit. The large socket is 
for the character genera- 
tor. Test points are the 6 
small rectangular objects 
along the left hand side of 
the board. A 7812 regula- 
tor in a plastic package is 
to the right of the charac- 
ter generator, and is used 
to provide the —12 V bias 
for the ROM. A zener 
diode with a dropping re- 
sistor is used to create the 
—5 V bias required for the 
ROM. 



and "D" outputs a one. This state con- 
tinuously resets the 74192 row counter and 
is nonrecoverable. A cure would be to 
power-on-reset the 7490 "R9" which does 
produce a recoverable state. 

2. As mentioned before, the 5320 likes a 
square wave input, so check the 7400 
imitation of ICIOa and b oneshot, or better 
yet use a 74121. 

3. Using a separate oscillator for charac- 
ter generation (5 MHz) would allow adjust- 
able character width, but watch out for any 
interaction with the 2 MHz — it shows up as 
a torn, garbled display, as will most sync or 
jitter problems. A crystal is best. (It is 
possible to use 12 MHz and a 7492 in place 
of IC8 to get 6 MHz for the characters and 
2 MHz for the 5320.) 

4. The prototype is wire wrapped on a 
4/2 by 6 inch (11.43 by 15.24 cm) vector 
board (see photo 2) with room to spare, 
although a slightly larger board would 
accommodate more interface goofs. Fulp's 
corollary says things like this always get 
bigger. Also, the 44 pin connector planned 
for the prototype is not large enough count- 
ing the additional RAM address and data 
lines. 

5. The modulation levels for the radio 
frequency modulator are fairly critical and 
misadjustment of sync or video levels will 
cause a torn display. Try setting video level 
control for 1/2 of maximum and sync for 
3/4 of maximum. 

6. Harmonics from the 10 MHz tend to 
leak into the TV so pick a higher channel (5 



or 6) if herringbone is noticeable on your 
display. 

7. There are many causes for ghosting 
and smeared characters including VSWR 
(voltage standing wave ratio) on the cable to 
the TV, misadjusted fine tuning, or a narrow 
band width TV. 

8. Character and line spacing can be 
altered by modifying the dot and row 
counters, respectively, to reset at different 
counts. Be careful though, or the display will 
not fit on the screen. 

9. The unused bits C and D of the second 
74193 character counter, IC12, may be used 
for the 512 and 1024 bits if a two or four 
page RAM is desired. Some method of 
controlling these bits during display time is 
needed to select the page. 

10. A light pen could strobe the present 
RAM address into a latch to be read by the 
CPU via the data bus. 

11. The 5320 provides color sync gating 
so how about color characters? The extra 2 
bits available with an 8 bit wide RAM can 
provide software control of many goodies 
(like brightness, color, blinking, underlining, 
black on white, etc). 

The TVD as described can be used to 
display one or more pages of ASCII charac- 
ters and opens up many possibilities of 
modernizing the IO portion of a small 
system. My home brew computer will be a 
complete microcomputer chip based system, 
designed with the TVD as the main man 
machine interface." 



21 



Programming for the Beginner 



A Structured Start 



Ronald T Herman 
Simpson Rd 
RFD 1 Box 125 
Windham NH 03087 



A program can be viewed 
as an edifice built from the 
bricks of SEQUENCE 
blocks, and the mortar of 
IFTHENELSE, DOW- 
HILE, DOUNTIL and 
SELECT blocks. 



For a number of years now the field of 
computer programming has been moving 
from the realm of a black art to an organized 
and systematic process. A number of pro- 
gramming techniques have evolved during 
this change. This article will present the 
basics of a technique known as structured, 
top down programming. In the process of 
applying these techniques in my own work, 
it occurred to me that the basic concepts 
could be useful to those just learning to 
program, not to mention the veteran hackers 
in the crowd. If learned at an early stage, 
these techniques can lead to more rapid and 
sound development of one's programming 
skills. 

A structured approach to program devel- 
opment has among its virtues the following 
points: 

• It allows the novice programmer to get 
acquainted wilh programming logic 
without having to be concerned with a 
specific machine or programming lan- 
guage. It allows him to grasp the flow 
of a program without worrying about 
bits and bytes. 

• Followed correctly, structuring can 
lead to a program that is relatively free 
from logical errors the first time it is 
coded and relatively easy to debug 
once it is run on the machine. 

• Pseudo code, a byproduct of struc- 
turing, allows a means of exchanging 
program ideas wilh others, regardless 
of the machine with which they might 
be familiar. 



• Pseudo code provides a convenient 
alternative to flow charts that can be 
incorporated into a program listing as 
comments for future reference and 
explanation. 

This process of getting things done in an 
organized fashion has its drawbacks. How- 
ever, most of these seem to be psychological. 
Properly applied structured technology 
tends to minimize one of the facets of 
programming that has attracted many in the 
past: the chance to see how cleverly and 
concisely one can write a software routine. 
This seems to have been replaced by the 
challenge of trying to write a routine in a 
straightforward manner and at the same time 
trying to rigidly follow a set of fairly simple 
rules. 

What will be presented in this article are 
some of the basic building blocks of struc- 
tured programming and an example illus- 
trating the design of a simple program using 
these blocks. 

The Building Blocks of Structure 

So much for the sales pitch. What then is 
structuring? Some number of years ago it 
was shown that a program could be built 
from a set of simple building blocks all 
having the property of one input and one 
output. While not everyone agrees on what 
composes this set of building blocks, the one 
in, one out property is common to all. 
Presented here are a few of the most 
common examples that should cover most 
situations. 



22 



The SEQUENCE Block 

Probably the simplest (and most trivial) 
unit of structure is the SEQUENCE. This is 
illustrated in figure 1 and is nothing more 
than one process performed after another. 

The IFTHENELSE Block 

One of the powers of a computing ma- 
chine is to make a decision based on a set of 
conditions and take a specific action as a 
result of that decision. This capability is 
represented as the IFTHENELSE block 
shown in figure 2. In the figure, "p" is an 
expression or some set of conditions. In a 
checking account, for example, one adds 
deposits and subtracts checks written. An 
IFTHENELSE statement of this fact would 
appear as follows: 



IF (tranaacrlon is a deposit) THEN 

: (add amount of transaction to balance) 

ELSE (subtract amount of transaction from balance) 

ENDIF 



Here is our first example of writing a 
program step in a machine independent 
"pseudo code." The format of pseudo code 
is mostly a matter of taste. The punctuation 
is optional, but the indentation is necessary 
for readability where many complex 
IFTHENELSE decisions are grouped to- 
gether. Some people use asterisks (*) instead 
of colons (:) to mark margins and some omit 
the parentheses around descriptive phrases. 
The ENDIF helps clarify the limit of opera- 
tions within a more complex statement. 
Each statement line represents a process to 
be performed or a condition to be tested. 
The statement or condition preferably 
should not be continued on another line. 

TheDOWHILEBIock 

The decision making capability of com- 
puters, combined with the ability to change 
the order in which instructions are executed, 
provides an even more powerful feature — 
the ability to repeat a calculation or series of 
operations many times. This capability is 
represented in the DOWHILE building block 
shown in figure 3. The DOWHILE is just a 
special application of the IFTHENELSE 
given earlier. In a DOWHILE block, a proc- 
ess is done as long as a set of conditions "p" 
is true. Note that the condition is tested first 
before the process is performed. Suppose 
you have 10 transactions to update into 
your checking account, some checks written 
and some deposits. In pseudo code this 
becomes: 



(set counter to number of transactions) 
DO WHILE (count is non zero) 

(process the trsnsactlon) 
: (decrement the count) 
ENDDO 



Note that the DOWHILE is terminated by an 
ENDDO. The "(process transaction)" state- 
ment could be the IFTHENELSE given 
above. If combined, the result would be as 
follows: 



(set counter to number of transactions) 

DO WHILE (count Is non zero) 

IF (transaction is a deposit) THEN 

: (add amount of transaction to balance) 

ELSE (subtract amount of transaction from balance) 

ENDIF 

(decrement the count) 

ENDDO 



The DOUNTIL Block 

The DOUNTIL block is shown in figure 
4. It differs from the DOWHILE only 
because the condition "p" is tested after the 
process is performed. This can simplify the 
writing of machine code from pseudo code. 
Suppose one wanted to read characters from 
a keyboard until a carriage return is en- 
countered. It could be done with a 
DOWHILE by saving the last character read 
as follows: 



(clear last character read) 

DO WHILE (last character not a carriage return) 

: (get a character from the keyboard) 

: (save character In last character read) 

ENDDO 



SEQUENCE 
STRUCTURE 



( BEGIN ] 



PROCESS 
A 



PROCESS 



C END J 



IF THENEL SE / \ 

STRUCTURE ( ^ BEGIN ) 





FALSE 


<^ 


TRUE 








ELSE 








THEN 


PROCESS 
A 




PROCESS 
B 





























( END J 



Using structured program- 
ming concepts, many 
logical errors and bugs can 
be caught at an early stage 
in the design process. 



Figure 7 : The SE- 
QUENCE structure is a 
series of self contained 
processing steps which are 
executed one after anoth- 
er. Flow in this diagram 
begins at the top and pro- 
ceeds down the diagram. 
The number of steps de- 
fined in a SEQUENCE 
block is arbitrary; the 
example here shows two 
steps, A and B. In this 
article's figures, the nota- 
tion BEGIN and END is 
used to mark the well de- 
fined extrance and exit 
points of the structures 
depicted. (NOTE: Proces- 
ses A and B may be more 
complex combinations of 
the building blocks in all 
of these figures.) 



Figure 2: The IFTHEN- 
ELSE structure is a con- 
ditional test and two alter- 
native SEQUENCE struc- 
tures. The THEN alter- 
native is executed if the 
condition, P, is found to 
be true. In this illustration, 
the THEN alternative is 
shown as a one step SE- 
QUENCE structure called 
B. The ELSE alternative is 
executed if the condition 
is found to be false. In this 
illustration, the ELSE al- 
ternative is shown as a one 
step SEQUENCE structure 
called A. 



23 



DOWHILE 
STRUCTURE 



c 



N J 




Figure 3: The DOWHILE structure is a 
looping form which repeats a specified SE- 
QUENCE structure over and over again as 
long as a condition, P, is true. DOWHILE 
tests the condition prior to executing the 
SEQUENCE structure for the first time. 
Thus in this example, the SEQUENCE struc- 
ture A could be executed 0, I, 2 . . . N 
times, depending upon how soon the condi- 
tion P becomes false as a result of A 's work. 



DO UNTIL 

STRUCTURE 



f BEGIN 




1 


L 








PROCESS 
A 




y^ f 




FALSE 



Figure 4: The DOUNTIL structure is anoth- 
f end ") er looping form which repeals a specified 

SEQUENCE structure over and over again 
until the condition, P, is true. DOUNTIL, in 
contrast to DOWHILE, tests the condition 
after executing the SEQUENCE structure. 
Thus in this example, the SEQUENCE struc- 
ture A could be executed I ', 2, 3 ... N times 
depending upon how soon the condition P 
becomes true as a result of A's work. 



This would require an extra instruction or 
two when translated into machine code, 
since the "last character read" must first be 
initialized to contain something other than a 
carriage return. Implemented as a DOUNTIL 
it is simply: 



DO UNTIL (character read Is a carriage return) 
: (get a character from the keyboard) 
ENDDO 



The SELECT Block 

Sometimes it is necessary to select one of 
many possible processes based on some 
quantity that may take on any number of 
values. Suppose, in addition to updating 
your checking account balance, you decided 
to keep a tally of money spent on each of 
several budget items such as food, medical, 
car, electric and so forth. This could be done 
with a string of IFTHENELSEs as follows on 
the next page. Two possible methods are 
shown but both are somewhat awkward to 
follow. 



IF (check was written to super market) THEN 

: (add amount to food total) 

ELSE 

IF (check was written to doctor) THEN 

(add amount to medical total) 
ELSE 

IF (check written to auto repair shop) THEN 

: (add amount to car total) 

ELSE 

: IF (check written to electric company) THEN 

: : (add amount to electric total) 

: ENDIF 

ENDIF 
ENDIF 
ENDIF 



Alternate method: 



IF (check written to super market) THEN 

: (add amount to food total) 

ENDIF 

IF (check written to doctor) THEN 

: (add amount to medical total) 

ENDIF 

IF (check written to auto repair shop) THEN 

: (add amount to car total) 

ENDIF 

IF (check written to electric company) THEN 

(add amount to electric total) 
ENDIF 



Figure 5: The SELECT 
structure is a more com- 
prehensive version of the 
IFTHENELSE concept; it 
allows data to be tested 
for multiple cases. The re- 
sult is the picking of one 
of "N" cases. In this exam- 
ple, N is 3, so there are 
three SEQUENCE struc- 
tures which might be exe- 
cuted depending upon the 
case determination. 



f BEGIN j 




SELECT 
STRUCTURE 



DETERMINE I 
"I CASE I 



CASE 1 


PROCESS 
A 






CASE 2 


J 








PROCESS 
B 


1 


CASE 3 


J 








PROCESS 
C 


1 









C END J 



A more concise and meaningful way to 
describe this process is with the SELECT 
block shown in figure 5. Note that although 
there are many paths through the block, 
there is only one entrance and only one exit. 
Our bookkeeping example now becomes: 



SELECT (based on who check written to) 
CASE (written to super market) 
: (add amount to food total) 
CASE (written to doctor) 
: (add amount to medical total) 
CASE (written to auto repair shop) 

(add amount to car total) 
CASE (written to electric company) 
! (add amount to electric total) 

ENDSELECT 



These then are the building blocks of a 
structured program. Others could be in- 
vented, but these should suffice for most 
situations. In any case, each should exhibit 
one entry point and one exit point. It should 
be noted that none of the building blocks 



24 



transfer control (jump) into another, never 
to return. This so called GOTO is a definite 
"no no" in structured programming. All 
processes are either done in line or are called 
as subroutines that are presented elsewhere. 
Frequent jumping around in a program 
results in a maze of paths that becomes 
difficult to follow and even more difficult to 
deal with in the event that a change in one is 
necessary. 
Building From the Top Down 

Earlier when the subject of structure was 
Introduced, the term "top down" was used. 
If you wanted to build a computer, you 
could start by getting the processor, then 
some memory and 10 devices and a power 
supply. Then you would have to try to 
determine how to connect all the parts 
together. On the other hand, you could start 
by deciding what the specifications for the 
machine are to be, such as word length and 
speed, what the 10 ports look like and what 
controls and devices are to be attached. 
From there the problem is to select or design 
the components and parts to do the job. 

So it is with software. In the past the 
tendency has been to first develop the pieces 
like Teletype handlers, tape read/write sub- 
routines and others. Then the pieces would 
be fitted together into a functioning module, 
hopefully without having to make any major 
changes to the pieces already developed. The 
experience of many people in the profes- 
sional software field has indicated that this is 
not an efficient way to design a software 
module. Instead the approach is to start at a 
high level of abstraction to describe the basic 
function to be performed. From there each 
unit of this description is broken into more 
detailed modules. Once designed, the pro- 
gram is coded and debugged a piece at a time 
starting at the topmost level. Subordinate 
levels of code are temporarily replaced by 
dummy "stubs" which do nothing. Then as 
each level is coded and incorporated into the 
program, any problems that develop usually 
can be isolated to the modules just added. 

As an example of this approach and the 
use of pseudo code, let us design a simple 
editor program. This editor reads a line of 
text from an input device (paper tape reader 
or magnetic tape recorder). The line is saved 
in memory and displayed on a video monitor 
or typed on a Teletype printer. A limited 
number of responses from the input key- 
board allow changes, deletions, and inser- 
tions to be made. Upon completion, the line 
is written to the output device (punch or 
another magnetic tape recorder). The proc- 
ess continues until the end of tape is reached 
on the input device. Changes and insertions 
are made by typing the character on the 



Teletype directly below the input line. 
Inserts are indicated by terminating the line 
with a carriage return (CR) and changes by a 
line feed (LF). The Teletype carriage or 
video display cursor is positioned using a 
"Control P" character (holding the CON- 
TROL key down while striking the "P" 
key). This is not a sophisticated editor, but 
should serve as a good example of how to 
use the techniques described. 

The topmost abstraction level of the 
editor program can be described in pseudo 
code as follows: 



DO UNTIL (end of input tape) 

{get line from input and type on printer) 

(get response line from keyboard, store and echo It) 

IF (only CR or LF entered) THEN 

: (do nothing) 

ELSE 

: IF (last character is LF) THEN 

: : (do character changes and output line) 

: ELSE (do character Inserts and output line) 

: ENDIF 

ENDIF 
ENDDO 



This then is our editor in its most abstract 
form. Note that an input line is deleted by 
entering only a carriage return or line feed. 
Now let us refine the description by de- 
scribing each process identified above. 

Getting a line from the input device 
requires turning on the input device, reading 
characters, and storing them until a line feed 
or carriage return has been recognized. The 
stored line is terminated with a zero (null) 
character so that the end of the line is more 
easily recognized later. 



(set input line pointer to first address of line) 

(turn on input device) 

DO UNTIL (a LF or CR is read) 
(get character from device) 
(store character @ input line pointer) 
(advance input line pointer one position) 
(send character to printer) 

ENDDO 

(clear a character at the pointer address) 

(turn off Input device) 



Likewise getting the response from the 
keyboard is similar except that Control P 
characters are echoed as spaces on the 
Teletype printer. 



(set keyboard line pointer to first address of line) 
DO UNTIL (LF or CR is typed) 

(get character from keyboard) 

IF (character is not a LF or CR) THEN 

(store character @ keyboard line pointer) 
(advance keyboard line pointer) 
IF (character is not Control P) THEN 
: (echo the character on printer) 
ELSE (echo a space) 
ENDIF 
ENDIF 
ENDDO 
(clear a byte @ keyboard line pointer) 



Character replaces and inserts are done by 
using the Control P characters on the key- 
board to indicate where the changes are to 
be made. For each Control P character in the 
response, an input line character is sent to 
the output. When a character other than 
Control P is encountered, it is cither inserted 
into the output or replaces a character about 



For a number of years, the 
field of computer program- 
ming has been moving 
from the realm of a black 
art to an organized and 
systematic process. 



"Top down structured 
programming" is a verit- 
able buzzword in the data 
processing and computer 
science fields. 



25 



to be outpulted depending on the last 
character from the keyboard (line feed or 
carriage return). Thus the replace operation 
becomes: 



Structured programming is 
a systematic way of think- 
ing about processes, the 
result of which is a well 
designed and under- 
standable program specif- 
ication. 



This article concerns or- 
ganizing and planning a 
program, which is ex- 
pressed in a structured 
"pseudo code." The next 
step after the plan is 
created is to translate the 
pseudo code into the de- 
tailed machine code of 
your personal computer. 



(set input line pointer to start of input line) 

(set keyboard line pointer to start of keyboard line) 

(turn on output device) 

DO UNTIL (end of keyboard line) 

(Ret keyboard line character <? keyboard line pointer) 

IF (character Is Control P) THEN 

: (get character @ lnnut line pointer and send to output) 

: (echo character on teletype printer) 

ELSE (send the keyboard character to the output) 

: (echo the keyboard character on printer) 

EN I) IF 

(advance keyboard line pointer) 

(advance Input line pointer) 
ENDDO 

(put out rest of characters in input line) 
(turn off output device) 



Note thai the resulting outpul is echoed on 
the Teletype to enable verification of the 
operation. 

The insert operation is given below: 



(set Input line pointer to start of Input line) 

(set keyboard line pointer to start of kevhoard line) 

(turn on outpul device) 

DO UNTIL (end of keyboard line) 

(get keyboard character @ keyboard line pointer) 

IF (character is a Control P) THEN 

{transfer character P input line pointer to output) 

: (echo character on teletype printer) 

ELSE 

! IXJWHILE (keyboard character is not Control I') 

: : (send keyboard character to output) 

: : (echo keyboard character on printer) 

: : (advance keyboard line pointer) 
ENDDO 

: IF (NOT END OF KEYBOARD LINE) THEN 

: : (transfer character a Input line pointer to output) 

: : (echo character on teletype printer) 

: ENDIF 

ENDIF 
ENDDO 

(put out rest of input line characters) 
(turn off output device) 



The routine that "puis oul the rest of the 
input line characters" is: 



DO UNTIL (input line pointer points to a null) 
(get character @ Input line pointer) 
IF (character is noc a null) THEN 

(put character to output device) 
(echo character on printer) 
(advance Input line pointer) 
ENDIF 
ENDDO 



Finally the routines to get a character 
from the input device and keyboard in this 
simple system arc identical except for the 
address of the device referenced. 



DO UNTIL (input device ready flag Is on) 

: (get input device ready flag) 

ENDDO 

(get character from device data port) 



The character output and type routines are 
likewise the same. 

DO UNTIL (output device ready flag Is on) 

: (get output device ready flag) 

ENDDO 

(send character to output device data port) 

We have now arrived at such a level of 
detail lh.it the code could be written with- 
out much difficulty from the pseudo code 
on an almost one for one basis. Each module 
except for the lop level description could 
and probably would be written as a separate 



subroutine. Note that each module can be 
read starting on the first line and ending on 
the last. No transfers are made out of any 
module to another without returning to the 
line following. Modules should be kept short 
(no more than a page) so that they can be 
read without constantly flipping pages back 
and forth. 

Conclusion 

What has been presented in this article is 
a description of a systematic approach to 
program design and a means of describing it 
so that almost any individual should be able 
to understand it. The resulting program 
when coded will have been well thought out 
and may even have been reviewed and 
partially debugged by other individuals not 
intimately familiar with the machine upon 
which it will ultimately be executed. 

Much discussion has occurred about 
standards for data exchange between various 
computer hobbyists. On a higher level, the 
pseudo code approach makes possible a 
standard way to exchange program ideas. In 
fact, higher level languages have been de- 
veloped that, at least in part, resemble the 
pseudo code language used here. Using this 
approach, programs might be written to 
convert pseudo code into machine instruc- 
tions for the 8080, 6800, 6502 or other 
CPUs as they become available. All hobby- 
ists could then share programs in a higher 
level language, each doing the necessary 
conversion on his own machine. 

There are a number of references on the 
subject of structured programming. The idea 
has been discussed extensively in computer 
science circles in recent years, to the point 
that "structured programming" has become 
a buzz word in the business. This writer is 
familiar with the two texts given in the 
bibliography. The IBM text is excellent for 
beginners and those new to the concepts, 
while the McGowan and Kelly text is a more 
rigorous and mathematical presentation." 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

International Business Machines Corp, Structured 
Programming Independent Study Program, Pough- 
keepsie NY, 1974. 

McGowan, Clement L and Kelly, John R, Top 
Down Structured Programming Techniques, Petro- 
celli/Charter, New York, 1975. 



26 



Why haven't YOU ordered 

YOUR SPHERE COMPUTER yet? 

....Probably because you haven't understood what a SPHERE COMPUTER can do for you, and what you 
get for the money you spend. One of the most important things to consider when spending your hard-earned 
money is how much value you will receive out of each dollar you spend. SPHERE CORPORATION offers 
you a COMPLETE COMPUTER SYSTEM. From one vendor you can get all the interfaces and peripherals 
•tea* allow you to perform similar functions of big computers. Remember, you spend a little more, but you 
can do so much more than you can by saving a "buck". What will a SPHERE COMPUTER do for YOU? 



TRADITIONALLY, a computer must allow you to input some information or 
problem into the machine for processing, then produce a Bolution. WHY USE A 
MACHINE?' ...Because a computer can do it faster, more efficiently, more accur- 
ately and with a lot less "fuss" than a pencil or calculator- A computer can be 
programmed to make an analysis of the situation and produce a solution after 
having considered the variables and contingent factors. 

PROFESSIONAL, or NON-PROFESSIONAL. a SPHERE COMPUTER can do 
the job I Whether your needs be to save time processing the payroll records, to 
produce a daily inventory of goods on hand, or to regulate and monitor the opera- 
tion of sensitive machinery. SPHERE can handle the job. How about preparing 
the monthly accounts receivable? ...Did you ever make a transposition error that 

cost you hundreds of dollars? SAVE TIME WITH A SPHERE COMPUTER! 

...Remember, it doesn't take a coffee break, get sick, get pregnant or ever go on 
vacation! The computer does what you tell it to do. (Just remember to tell it the 
right things). Your SPHERE all-purpose, professional quality computer can be 
configured to your needs and will feel right at home in the office, school, or Lib. 

WHAT ABOUT NON-PROFESSIONAL COMPUTER USERS? Well, we have 
found that these are people who don't rely on a MICROCOMPUTER to "Bring 
Home the Bacon". Whether your needs be to design a new method to help you out 
at work, or to file and reference a thousand valuable magazine articles. SPHERE 
has a model which will fit your needs, and that won't destroy your bank balance. 
Put all of your financial records into the computer and have it balance the check 
book and keep record of deductions you can use on your taxes. Get the computer 
to budget monthly expenditures and provide the best use of your investment dollars. 



HEY. DID YOU EVER PLAY A COMPUTER GAME? ..-Computer games 
make you THINK, which challenges and expands your mind. Chess. Roulette. 
Star Trek,...There are hundreds of science fiction fascinating games. The important 
thing is that a computer, when presented with your problem reviews the related 
variables and processes the data to give you results swiftly; and with a SPHERE 
SYSTEM, it is done in a manner which is easy to understand ...and USE I When 
you purchase your SPHERE COMPUTER SYSTEM you are receiving the highest 
quality machine of it's kind on the market. 



CONTACT SPHERE , or SEE 
YOUR LOCAL DISTRIBUTOR: 



COMPUTER MART 
473 Winter Street 
Waltham, Mass. 02154 
617-890-0677 

COMPUTER MART of N.Y. 
314 5 th Ave. 
NY.. N.Y. 10001 
212-279-1048 



COMPUTER WAY 
15525 Computer Lane 
Huntington Bch. Calif.92649 
7 14-892-8816 

BARGAIN ELECTRONICS 

20 18 Lomita Blvd. 
Lomita, Calif. 90717 
213-539-2260 



COMPUTER WORKSHOP IVth DIMENSION, INC. 



I 1308 Hounds Way 
Rockville. Md. 20852 
301-468-0455 

COMPUTER COUNTRY 
18 Alameda Sq. 
2200 W. Alameda Blvd. 
Arvada. Colorado 80003 
30 3-935- I 100 

THE SMALL BUSINESS 

COMPUTER COMPANY 

400 Dewey Blvd. 

San Francisco, Calif. 94116 

415-665-2575 



7060 Miramar Rd. 
Suite 104 

San Diego, Calif. 92126 
7 14-566-76 10 

COMUNICACIONES S.A. 

APDO 703 

San Jose, Costa Rica 

23-47-12 

PMI 

European Distribution 

13, Chemin du LeVant 

01210 Ferney-Voltaire 

Ain. France 

050-416222 




KIT, OR ASSEMBLED, SPHERE IS A PROFESSIONAL COMPUTER 



consider these features: 



• EASY-TO-USE TYPEWRITER STYLE KEYBOARD 

• DISPLAY OF ALPHA/NUMERIC CHARACTERS ON YOUR TV SET OR OUR VIDEO MONITOR. 

• THE MOTOROLA 6800 MICROPROCESSOR WITH ONE OF THE FINEST INSTRUCTION SETS AVAILABLE. 

• RANDOM ACCESS MEMORY STORAGE ( 4K to 64 K BYTES ) 

• INTERFACES TO TTY ( TELETYPE/PAPER TAPE ) TTL. RS232. MODERN. LINE PRINTERS. FLOPPY 
DISK, AND STANDARD AUDIO CASSETTES. 

• DOCUMENTATION TO TELL YOU WHAT TO DO. 

• AND MANY, MANY MORE. (I'm out of room). 

NOT ONLY DO YOU GET A WELL DESIGNED COMPUTER... but a unit which has your growth needs 

considered. As your needs change, and grow, so can a SPHERE COMPUTER! Expandability is no problem... thankB to 
sufficient BUSS CABLE CONNECTIONS. Simply add-on what modules you need. With a SPHERE COMPUTER product. 
your jobs will be accomplished in the most efficient manner possible. Don't worry about running around town looking for 
a peripheral, or having to depend on another company to get that extra device... ( the one you didn't know you'd need) to 
make your computer work. 

THE SPHERE PHILOSOPHY ...is to provide you with a complete product, at the start, and from one vendor. 

Input of data, problem solving and meaningful output; the hardware is complete. 

SO, WHEN IT COMES TO MAKING YOUR DECISION ....Remember that what you want is a computer which will 
solve your problems, save your money that's being wasted, and that most importantly. ..GETS THE JOB DONE I 

WHY haven't YOU ordered YOUR SPHERE COMPUTER yet? 




SPHEFE 

CORPORATION 

940 North 400 East 

North Salt Lake, Utah 84054 

P.O. BOX 213 (801) 292-8466 



NOTE: Some of the above applications and programs are available from Sphere. 



A High School Computer System 



Christopher Lett 
Mac Gregor Dr 
Mahopac NY 10541 



We needed hard copy and 
a high level language .... 



Homebuilt minicomputers 
such as the Altair 8800 
offer an economical but 
efficient alternative to 
more expensive options. 



In late May of 1975, John F Kennedy 
High School in Somers NY suddenly had to 
face a computational crisis. For the previous 
two years, the school had been given com- 
puting time gratis by the local Board of 
Cooperative Educational Services; our only 
expenses were the purchase of an acoustic 
coupler, and the telephone connection costs. 
But that May we were abruptly informed 
that the service would no longer be available. 

The problem was that there were three 
courses that made use of the computer 
already scheduled for the following school 
year: an interdisciplinary course, a full year 
calculus course, and a course in BASIC 
language programming. Since it was too late 
to design new courses and drop these, the 
school began to search for an inexpensive 
computing system. Besides low cost, we 
needed a system with a powerful, high level 
conversational language (either BASIC or 
APL) with the ability to store programs in 
some form such as paper tape or audio 
cassette. The terminal had to provide hard- 
copy and come with a paper tape reader, if 
necessary. 

Examining the Alternatives 

The first possibility was purchasing com- 
puting time on a time sharing basis from a 
major corporation. This would have cost the 
school over $3000 per year, and was there- 
fore rejected as being too expensive. 

The second alternative was to purchase a 
self contained computing system, such as the 
IBM 5100 or the Wang 2200. Although they 
would have filled most of our requirements, 
their high initial costs ($9000 and $5400 
respectively) made them again too expensive 
for our small private high school's tight 
budget. 

The third and most probable choice was 



to buy a minicomputer with BASIC software 
and rent a teletypewriter to interface with it. 
Since a system of this type met our require- 
ments at an absolute minimum cost, it was 
decided that this was the way to go. Now 
there was another important decision to 
make: What minicomputer system should 
the school purchase? 

That summer, MITS Inc was running a 
sale on its Altair 8800 computer. What it 
offered was the Altair 8800 computer, two 
4 K dynamic memory boards, an interface 
board, and, most importantly, their 8 K 
version of BASIC on paper tape, all for only 
$995. This meant that the system would pay 
for itself in less than a year, as compared 
with the next most expensive alternative. 
Table I shows the breakdown of costs we 
estimated during the summer of 1975. 

The Teletype Model 33 ASR was selected 
for use as the terminal for several reasons: It 
provides hardcopy output, it has a paper 
tape punch and reader, it does not need a 
telephone connection; and we knew from 
previous experience that it is rugged and 
reliable, with maintenance, as needed, 
readily available under the leasing 
agreement. 

Assembling the Altair 

A check for $995 was subsequently 
mailed off to MITS in New Mexico, and we 
waited for the kit to come . . . and waited 
. . . and waited. After almost two months of 
patience, the kit arrived at the school in late 
October. Since my father and I were charged 
with actually building the thing, I had to 
bring the kit (data bus and all) home with 
me on the school bus (which was an experi- 
ence in itself)! 

The assembly manual for the Altair was 
somewhat disappointing in its handling of 



28 



Our high school suddenly 
faced a computational 
crisis: With computer 
courses all scheduled, we 
lost access to a "free" time 
sharing service. 



I had to bring the kit (data 
bus and all) home with me 
on the school bus (which 
was an experience in 
itself)! 



errata information. When MITS makes a 
change in one of the kits, it throws a pile of 
modification and errata sheets into the front 
of the manual. While the information is 
complete, this makes it hard to keep up with 
the changes that have been made. A better 
solution might have been to issue replace- 
ment "change pages" to be substituted for 
uncorrected originals. Another minor dis- 
appointment was the fact that not all the 
bugs had been caught by MITS. One such 
uncorrected mistake was the fact that the 
"+" and "— " signs on the power supply's 
bridge rectifier did not line up with the 
corresponding signs printed on the board 
itself. My father and I ended up having to 
trace the proper connections on the sche- 
matic to sec what the correct alignment was. 
I believe that anyone who was unfamiliar 
with working from a schematic would have 
some trouble understanding how to orient 
that rectifier. 

Other small problems included nuts, 
bolts, and screws that always seemed to be 
the wrong size for the job, and a shortage of 
terminal lugs. 

Working nights and weekends, my father 
and I completed construction within two 
weeks. Powering up the kit for the first time, 
we discovered that the only defective part 
was one LED on the front display panel. The 
only thing left to assemble was the serial IO 
board. This time the assembly instructions 
were clear enough, but the theory of opera- 
tion manual was somewhat sketchy. 

One thing that MITS failed to mention 
was how to program the Altair to talk to a 
Teletype! You would think that they would 
mention that the interface must be set for 8 
data bits, no parity bit, two stop bits, and 
device addresses 000 and 001, right? Wrong! 
This information was not mentioned in the 
documentation. Apparently MITS cannot 
tell you how to interface the Altair with any 
specific terminal because they have no way 
of knowing what kind of device you would 
be using in the first place. It is fortunate that 
we had read Don Lancaster's article on serial 
interfaces in the September 1975 BYTE. My 



Table 1 : Comparison of Two Year Computing Costs. 

SYSTEM TOTAL COST 

IBM 5100 $9000 

Wang 2200 $5400 

Commercial timesharing $6740 

Phone line cost — $1 50 per month 
Computing costs — $100 per month 
Terminal with dialup — $87 per month 

Altair Package $2195 

MITS Altair plus software - $995 
Teletype Model 33 ASR - $60 per month 



recommendation on this point would be a 
set of examples showing several typical 
cases. 



Up and Running 

Finally, after a long delay in obtaining 
the Teletype (not purchased from MITS, but 
leased from RCA in New Jersey), the system 
was fully operational. We have been using it 
continuously ever since. 

MITS is to be congratulated for their 
excellent software. Their version of BASIC is 
superior to most others that we have en- 
countered, and it uses only 6 K of memory, 
allowing us to write programs of con- 
siderable length (about 100 lines). 

The Altair is kept powered up con- 
tinuously from Monday morning to Friday 
afternoon to save wear and tear on the paper 
tape with the BASIC software; also, it would 
be too inconvenient to key in the bootstrap 
program and wait the 12 or so minutes it 
takes to load BASIC every day. 

The security of the system is important 
because the Altair and the Teletype are both 
kept out in the same classroom. Because the 
computer is not very large and thus easy to 
steal, special precautions had to be taken. 
The Altair is attached to the cabinet by 
three screws through the bottom of its case; 
it is positioned close to the rear of the 
cabinet so the top of its case cannot be 
removed with a regular screwdriver. Also, a 
Plexiglas shield was placed over the bottom 



MITS is to be con- 
gratulated for their excel- 
lent software. 



29 



The first addition planned for this 
system is conversion to a magnetic 
tape interface. Further in the future, 
we see the memory expanding to 1 2 K 
bytes, purchasing the Altair Floppy 
Disk System, and trading up to MITS 
Extended BASIC. 




of the Altair's front panel to keep anyone 
from inadvertently throwing the "OFF" or 
"RESET" switches and wiping out the 
BASIC. 

A typical session at the terminal goes 
something like this: The student connects 
the computer and the Teletype by turning 
the selector switch to COM (communicate). 
There is, at present, no sign on or user 
password to control access to the computer. 
Making the student use the computer out in 
the open discourages those who are not 
authorized to use it from doing so. (Besides, 
99% of the people who aren't supposed to 
use it wouldn't know what to do even if 
they got it powered up!) After making the 
connection, the student clears the memory 
to remove any data that may have been left 
by a previous user. He then either keys in his 
program or loads a program through the tape 
reader, and goes to work. He may also use a 
program from a library of special routines 
we have in several subject areas: mathema- 
tics, chemistry, and physics problem solving, 
lab simulations, text editing, and puzzles and 
games. When his session is finished, he can 




Photo 2: Two students using the computer. 



Photo 7 : The John F Kennedy High School 
computing system. There's a Plexiglas shield 
over the bottom row of switches on the 
Altair. -Photos by C T Nadovich 



save the current program on paper tape, or 
simply clear the memory and turn off the 
Teletype. 

Future Plans 

What does the future hold for this sys- 
tem? The first addition planned for it is the 
conversion to a magnetic tape interface. The 
MITS cost for this interface plus an addi- 
tional expander board and a cooling fan 
comes to less than $170. The conversion will 
accomplish three important things: It will 
shorten the time needed to load BASIC from 
12 to four minutes, provide for program 
storage in the more convenient form of tape 
cassettes, and it will allow us to trade down 
from the Model 33 ASR to the 33 KSR. The 
advantage of trading down is that the KSR 
leases for $15 per month less than the ASR 
since it does not have a paper tape punch or 
reader. The savings will pay the cost of the 
cassette interface in about a year. 

Further in the future, we see the memory 
expanding to 12 K bytes, purchasing the 
Altair Floppy Disk System, and trading up 
to MITS Extended BASIC language, which 
has double precision arithmetic, controlled 
format output, and disk files. A TV type- 
writer or other similar video terminal is also 
envisioned. 

Although this article has focused on use 
of a kit computer as an economical system 
for a small high school with a tight budget, 
the savings outlined are applicable for 
schools anywhere. In the face of rising 
commercial computing costs, a homebuill 
minicomputer such as the Altair offers an 
economical yet efficient alternative to com- 
mercial computing systems for schools." 



30 



Can anyone beat 




We doubt it. 



When it comes to microcomputers, Altair from MITS is the leader 
in the field. 

The Altair 8800 is now backed by a complete selection of plug-in 
compatible boards. Included are a variety of the most advanced memory 
and interface boards, PROM board, vector interrupt, real time clock, 
and prototype board. 

Altair 8800 peripherals include a revolutionary, low-cost floppy disk 
system. Teletype.™ line printer, and soon-to-be-announced CRT terminal. 

Software for the Altair 8800 includes an assembler, text editor, moni- 
tor, debug. BASIC, Extended BASIC, and a Disk Operating System. 
And this software is not just icing on the cake —it has received industry 
wide acclaim for its efficiency and revolutionary features. 

But MITS hasn't stopped with the Altair 8800. There is also the 
Altair 680— complete with memory and selectable interface —built 
around the new 6800 microprocessor chip. And soon-to-be-announced 
are the Altair 8800a and the Altair 8800b. 



m 



DDQLT3© 

2450 Alamo S.E. 



MITS doesn't stop with just supplying hardware and software, 
either. Every Altair owner is automatically a member of the Altair Users 
Group through which he has access to the substantial Altair software 
library Every Altair owner is informed of up-to-date developments via a 
free subscription to Computer Notes. Every Altair owner is assured that 
he is dealing with a company that stands firmly behind its products. 

After all. we didn't become the leader by messing around. Shouldn't 
you send for more information or visit one of our Altair dealers? 



Altair Coupon 

Please send me the following information: 

□ Your latest catalog and price list 

□ Software information package 

D Please include a list of your dealers 

NAM E 



ADDRESS_ 
CITY 



. STATE & ZIP_ 



l_. 



Albuquerque, N.M. 87106 



A Systems Approach 



to a Personal Microprocessor 



Dr Robert Sliding 

Research Director for Digital Group Inc 

PO Box 6528 

Denver CO 80206 



Even a casual glance through the BYTE, 
Radio Electronics, Popular Electronics, etc, 
advertisements and articles reveals a growing 
proliferation of microprocessor integrated 
circuits and completed units. Which of these 
is right for you? Here are some ideas to bear 
in mind while making your choice. 

Why do you want a processor at all? 
Reasons vary greatly. Many find themselves 
intrigued by the "computer environment" 
around us, and the microprocessor has be- 
come a low cost ■ entry point into 
"computers." 

Several amateur computer newsletters 
list reasons for individuals becoming interest- 
ed in microprocessors. Hams see them as a 
working piece of equipment for their radio 
station. Hobbyists see them as process con- 
trollers; everything from lawn sprinkler con- 
trollers to robots. Mathematical types find 
them usable to run BASIC, FORTRAN, 
APL, etc, for problem solving. 

What are your future plans with micro- 
processors? This may become a very open 
question. However, some reflection in this 
regard may prevent you from making an 
initial, very expensive, mistake. If you only 



have a casual curiosity, don't spend a for- 
tune. A definite growth plan indicates a need 
for more careful analysis. 

Investment 

Microprocessor kits vary from $100 to 
several thousand dollars. The lowest cost 
units are excellent for satisfying curiosity 
about microprocessing in general, or will 
allow machine code manipulations. Several 
thousand dollar systems are often designed 
for and purchased by businessmen and pro- 
fessionals for applications such as payroll 
accounting, text editing or name file 
maintenance. The most frequent non busi- 
ness personal system investment is probably 
in the $500 to $1500 range. 

Change 

If there is one constant that is already 
evident in this field, it is constant change. 
You are about to invest (or already have 
invested) a significant amount of money in a 
microprocessor system. Unless your curios- 
ity is easily satisfied, the chosen system 
should be able to easily adapt itself to 



32 



evolutionary changes being constantly in- 
vented or stressed. For instance, every six to 
nine months (Virginia Peschke calls it the 
gestation period) a major . architecturally 
different central processor integrated circuit 
is announced. A system which allows up- 
grading without total obsolescence can be a 
real savings for the serious hobbyist. It can 
be very frustrating to be stuck with last 
year's wonder while everybody else has the 
latest microprocessor system. Several layers 
of change seem to be occurring. The fastest 
change seems to be the microprocessors 
themselves. The power supply and cabinet, if 
adequately large, can be a relatively stable 
portion of a hobbyist's system. The major 
expense in substantial processor systems is 
the memory components. A wise investment 
in memory will result in a system with a 
good life expectancy. The 10 components 
are often a stable investment, sometimes an 
evolutionary element. A high resolution TV 
monitor, a mechanical hardcopy printer, or a 
good ASCII keyboard can outlive several 
generations of microprocessors. Expendable 
10, such as cassette systems, analog to digital 
converters, and discrete 10 circuits have 
shorter lives, but are lower cost. With proper 
design an evolutionary change can represent 
only one fourth or less of your total 
hardware investment instead of 75 percent. 

Independency 

An evolutionary system is best designed 
by making its various components inde- 
pendent of each other, and interfaced to 
commonly accepted levels and lines. Mem- 
ory boards are relatively stable system 
elements in this kind of design: Speed and 
power consumption, besides price, are im- 
portant considerations. Slower or surplus 
memory integrated circuits may be an ex- 
pensive mistake if you want to run your 
latest model central processor which has 
become much faster. The slow memory may 
result in unnecessary central processor wait 
states. IO is generally processor independent, 
but 10 interfaces can be susceptible to 
obsolescence when they depend on a specific 
central processor design. If you want to 
switch processors, they may require con- 
siderable redesign. A system which consists 



INFO -TECh 




Info-Tech Model 66c Terminal 

A commercial Quality, self contained Video Terminal 
for the Experimenter & Light Industrial user 
Specifications: 
Keyboard: 53 Key ASR33 Format generates 

102 ASCII characters 

2 Key Rollover 

Made by "Cherry" 
Video Display: 32 characters x 16 lines 

5x7 Dot Matrix 

64 Character Repertoire 

Scrolling 
I/O Data 

Serial ASCII RS232c levels 

1 start bit, 8 data bits, 2 stop bits 

Data Rate: Factory adjustable to 

either 110 or 300 Baud 
Enclosure 14" wide x 12" deep x 3 1 /2" high. HD 

Aluminum 

Weight 4 lbs. — 7 lbs. shipping 
Warranty One Year Warranty On Parts And 

Workmanship. 
Price Model 66c (Serial I/O, 16 lines video) 

wired & tested $475.00 

Commercial Quality Video Monitors (9" & 15") 
are available as an accessory — price & specifica- 
tion upon request. 

All prices and specifications subject to change 
without notice. 

INFO -Tech, Inc. 

20 Worthington Drive, 

63043, (314) 576-5489 



St. Louis, 



lissoun 



33 



of easily plugable boards can represent a 
major cost savings if they represent inde- 
pendency at the. board level. 

Quality 

Of course everybody has it. Don't you 
read the advertisements? However, look 
beyond the surface for key items, or your 
long run investment will make you wish that 
you had. Here are some mechanical and 
electrical considerations of packaging: 

• PC Boards — Double sided epoxy, 
plated, with plated through holes. 

• Connectors — Gold plated fingers. 

• ICs — Factory Prime, not temperature 
fallouts, etc. 

• Conservative access speeds. Every IC 
socketed. 

• Small Parts — Close tolerances where 
needed. 

• Power Supplies — Conservatively 
rated, overcurrent, overtemperature, 
and overvoltage protected. 

System Architectural Variations 

There are a number of approaches to 
small system microprocessor design. Each is 
satisfactory for certain people, certain 
applications. 

• Toggle Switches and Bit Lamps: The 
first hobbyist oriented microprocessor 
designs, and many present systems, are 
based on switches and lamps. If the 
system is limited to this, programs are 
small; or it takes long periods to enter 
longer programs, and arc very suscep- 
tible to entry error. The user is forced 
to think at the micro level, bit by bit. 
If the intention of the user is to gain 
intimate logic knowledge of the micro- 
processor only, this system design is 
very cost effective. 

• Numeric Keyboard and 7 Segment 
Readout: The ease of entry of this 
type of system allows a substantial 
gain in programming system complex- 
ity. However, the user is still at the 
logical data operation level. In addi- 
tion, the programmer is restricted to 
viewing only a single byte at a time, 
making operator effort for analysis 
proportionally high. 

• Teletype or Similar Hardcopy Devices: 
These systems represent the next level 
of improvement, offering some signifi- 
cant advantages. They usually have 
some form of monitor in a ROM 
which allows the operator to type in 
code and helps isolate him from errors. 
The total program may be listed or 



printed on hardcopy. In addition, 
paper tape is usually available to pro- 
vide an economical media for program 
storage and exchange. 

There are some trade-offs, however. 
New hardcopy machines cost $1,000 
up. Being mechanical devices, they 
require significant precision main- 
tenance. The input/output speed is 
usually about ten characters per 
second; a dump of 1 K takes about 
two minutes, and creates a great deal 
of irritating noise. In addition, paper 
tape is a damage prone and bulky 
medium. 

Several integrated circuit manu- 
facturers offer Teletype-oriented 
"evaluation boards." If only required 
for evaluation, ok; but they offer 
almost zero chance for either updating 
or extending. Both memory and 10 are 
typically very CPU dependent, and if 
memory buffering is not used, supple- 
mental memory and IO may be unus- 
able. 
• Video and Cassette: The latest stress 
has been the movement to using a TV 
set as an output display, a full alpha- 
numeric keyboard for input, and an 
audio cassette for program storage and 
exchange. Video-based systems pro- 
vide full user to system interaction at 
minimal cost. A complete video dis- 
play and cassette based system will 
cost less than a hardcopy device alone. 
The speed of system response is prac- 
tically instantaneous. Operations may 
be performed in almost complete 
silence (a major advantage to the 
hausfrau)! Reliability is enhanced as 
electromechanical mechanisms are 
limited to the keyboard and cassette 
recorder. Data media storage density is 
much higher; you can store the data 
from almost a mile of paper tape on a 
single C-90 audio cassette. 

Conclusion 

Serious hobbyists should carefully con- 
sider design alternatives and growth plans 
before ordering or building a micropro- 
cessor. Ease of operation, reasonable cost, 
and relative freedom from total obsolescence 
should be prime considerations. 

In the following months, a detailed series 
of Digital Group hardware designs will be 
presented for your use. Next month will 
feature the low cost Digital Group cassette 
interface circuit which design provides data 
rates as high as 1100 baud, and may also be 
used as a ham RTTY terminal unit or as 
a telephone modem." 



34 



A DIFFERENT 
KIND OF STORE 



Remember the blank stares you got when you 
asked your local all-purpose electronics store about 
microcomputers? Not to worry. Now there's a 
place just for you — a store that specializes in 
microcomputers. 

The Computer Store distributes the M ITS line of 
Altair microcomputers (both kits and assembled 
systems), but you can also get tools and instru- 
ments; books and manuals; logic, memory and 
processor chips and boards; components such as 
power supplies and keyboards; a wide range of 
peripherals; and software. And when The Com- 
puter Store sells you a kit, you can walk out with 
it and start assembling it the same day. 

But the people at The Computer Store do more 
than just sell. Like you, they are hobbyists and ex- 
perimenters with a sincere interest in this most 
exciting technology. Do you have a hardware 



problem? You'll find a complete diagnostic labo- 
ratory on the premises, as well as a full inventory 
of IC chips. Need software? The people at The 
Computer Store maintain a blueprint library and 
provide copying services. Supplies? Where most 
vendors stock only the "big ticket" items like 
disks, The Computer Store also carries printer 
paper and ribbons, paper tape and cards, and mag 
cartridges and cassettes. Also at The Computer 
Store: seminars and lectures (A BASIC course 
features hands-on computer time), manufacturers' 
literature, magazines, and a pleasant place to meet 
and rap with computer enthusiasts like yourself. 

Whether you're an experienced kit builder or 
just interested in learning more about the fascin- 
ating world of microcomputers, The Computer 
Store would like to make your acquaintance. We 

believe computers are for people! Help us to make 
it happen! 



A sampling of what you'll find this month at The Computer Store 

• MITS/ALTAIR8800 

with 8K Dynamic Memory (Kit) 
$829.00 postpaid 



• 3M Data Cartridge 

IBM 5100, HP 9830 Compatible 
$100.00 Package of 5, postpaid 

• BASIC for Self Study 

by Albrecht, Finkel & Brown 
$3.95 postpaid 



• Weller Model SP23K 

Soldering Iron Kit 

$8.95 postpaid 

• Lear Siegler CRT Display 

ADM/3 - 960 character 
$995.00 

F.O.B. Burlington 



• 20K byte DOS/BASIC ALTAIR SYSTEM • 

Dual Floppy Disks, CRT, 

Line Printer (80 columns, 110 cps), 

PROM Hardware Loader 

30 day delivery 

$9,395.00 postpaid 

Prices and Specifications are subject to change without notice. 



(Mass. residents add 5% sales tax) 



the Computer Storejnc. 

120 CAMBRIDGE STREET, BURLINGTON, MASSACHUSETTS 01803 (617) 272-8770 




Don Alexander of Columbus OH was named the grand prize winner in the MITS World Altair 
Computer Convention demonstration contest. Don is shown here with his computer controlled 
amateur radio Teletype station. The radio equipment is the stack at the left. A t the right is his 
homebrew video display output on an OEM monitor, and in the background at the right is his 
Altair 8800 on top of which is perched the radioteletype converter unit. The station is 
completed by the keyboard unit in the front, and a Model 19 Teletype machine (only a corner 
is visible at right) which logs station contacts during contests. — Photo by Andrea Lewis 



The Albuquerque 
Happenings 



F^ _J 








Br^^^S 1 


|4y~iJ 








K^'i^V 


x u||S 


*F< 










S 


Jv ™ 


w 


|||||p r ■ .- : /vjSy -' , 


jf^^ 




■r , 


* 





At the recent World Altair Computer 
Convention, BYTE was represented by 
editor Carl Helmers, publishers Manfred and 
Virginia Peschke, circulation manager 
Deborah Luhrs, and Tully Peschke. The 
convention was capably organized and car- 
ried out under the direction of David Bun- 
nell. Approximately 700 enthusiastic people 
from places as far away as Iran, Austria and 
West Germany came to Albuquerque NM for 
what was effectively a giant computer club 
meeting. Southern California Computer Soci- 
ety was present and accounted for with a 
chartered plane flight and many of the 
people who are responsible for that organiza- 
tion's existence. One of the major activities 
of the convention was a computer systems 



To our complete surprise, B YTE received an 
award at the MITS convention, prepared and 
delivered by a large SCCS contingent. This 
photo shows BYTE editor Carl Helmers 
(left) receiving the SCCS "special award" 
from Lou Fields of SCCS (right) while Dave 
Bunnell of MITS watches. — Photo by 

Robert Prati 



36 



demonstration contest, judges were Les 
Solomon, technical editor of Popular Elec- 
tronics, Larry Steckler, editor of Radio 
Electronics, Theodor Nelson, author of 
Computer Lib/Dream Machines, and BYTE 
editor Helmets. 

Don Alexander of Columbus OH was 
named grand prize winner in the demonstra- 
tion contest with his computer-controlled 
amateur radio Teletype station. The home 
W1V1 system consisted of an Altair 8800 
with 8 K of memory, an ASCII keyboard, a 
video display, Baudot Teletype and standard 
transmitter and receiver. 

In addition to building the hardware, Mr 
Alexander developed his own software and 
wrote the assembler and editor for the 
system. The program he demonstrated at the 
Convention was written for receiving and 
transmitting messages in a radio Teletype 
contest. The Altair 8800 kept track of most 
of the radio Teletype contest "house- 
keeping," such as: ASCII/Baudot transla- 
tion, crosschecking calls for duplication, 
sending the time and message number of a 
transmission along with lines of text that are 
generated by command from the keyboard. 
After every exchange, a log entry was 
printed on the Teletype, keeping a hard 
copy record of all exchanges. A complete 
Altair floppy disk system was awarded to Mr 
Alexander for his winning entry. 

A tie for second place resulted in MITS 
awarding two Altair 8800Bs: one to Randy 
Miller of Tempe AZ for his computer chess 
demonstration; and one to Wirt and Valerie 
Atmar of Las Cruces NM for their speech 
synthesizer. 

Third prize, an Altair 16 K static memory 
card, went to Danny Kleinman, Steve 
Grumette and Mike Gilbert of Los Angeles 
CA for their backgammon game, written in 
Altair BASIC and played on a Cromemco 
TV Dazzler. 

The winners were announced March 28 
1976 at the Altair awards banquet. Grand 
prize winners in MITS' yearly software 
contest were also named at the banquet; 
James Gerow of Houston TX won first place 
for the best program, and Lee M Eastburn of 
Langdon ND took the top prize in the 
subroutine category. 

Throughout the weekend Altair users 
from 46 states and seven foreign countries 
took part in seminars presented by MITS 
engineers and software developers. A group 
of guest speakers, including Ted Nelson, 
author of Computer Lib, David Ahl of 
Creative Computing, and Carl Helmers of 
BYTE, led a Saturday night discussion of 
what the future holds for computers in 
general and for hobbyists in particular." 



IMSAI 

announces 

a unique 

4KRAM 

board 

for just 

$139. 

Nobody has a 4K RAM board 
that gives you so much for your 
money. It's fully compatible with 
the Altair 8800. 

Through the front panel 
or under software control, you 
can write protect or unprotect 
any IK group of RAM's. Also 
under software control you can 
check the status of any 4K RAM 
board in IK blocks to determine 
whether it's protected or not. The 
board has LED's that clearly show 
you the memory protect status 
of each IK block and which 
block is active. And there's a 
circuit provided that will let you 
prevent the loss of data in the 
memory if there's a power failure. 
This low power board has a 
guaranteed 450 ns cycle time- 
no wait cycle required. There's 
nothing like the IMSAI 4K RAM 
board around. 

Dealer inquiries invited. 



IMS Associates, Inc. 



I iiOi 



IMS Associates. Inc. Dcpt. B-6 
14860 Wicks Boulevard 
San Leandro, CA 94577 
(415) 483-2093 

Order Your IMSAI 4K RAM Board For 
Only $139. Use BankAmericard, 
Master Charge, personal check or 
money order. 



~l 



D Send . 



□ Charge to my credit card. 

□ BAC No.. 

□ MC No._ 



. 4K RAM boards today. 



Signature- 
Name 

Address — 



City/State/Zip_ 



37 



Lr 



^J 



New from Texas Instruments: 
An authoritative guide to 
understanding microprocessor 
software... from the beginning. 
Only $ 12.95. 








1H* § Software Design for Microprocessors £§pff 






.',/..- .„ „- _ 



li'friiiWfiiilV ! 



A working knowledge of micro- 
processor software is essential to 
mastery of microprocessors. And 
acquiring such knowledge is now 
simplified with TI's new text, 
Software Design for Micropro- 
cessors. 

This new book is designed to 
help you to fully understand the 
basics of microprocessor machine 
code and assembly language. It 
is equally suitable for the non- 
technical professional as for the 
technically trained. 

Complete, stand-alone guide: 

Having more than 500 pages, the 
book contains the information 
you need to learn the language, 
special terms, and underlying 
concepts of microprocessors that 
lead to an understanding of the 
complex facets of software. Here 
are clear, readable discussions as 
well as references, graphs, tables, 
data sheets, examples and appen- 
dices. It's a convenient, single 
source to show you how to pro- 



gram microprocessors to do what 
you want. 

Comprehensive text: In the 
first chapter, you learn basic 
terms, study basic machine ar- 
chitecture and look in detail at 
instructions as well as ad- 
dressing. In succeeding chapters, 
you progress on to investigating 
the process of generating soft- 
ware... defining the support and 
documentation required . . . de- 
signing a simple machine to 
demonstrate how to program a 
problem. In conclusion, you gain 
experience by examining four 
sample problems. 

This book is an ideal compan- 
ion to TI's series of /xP Learning 
Modules — learning systems to 
help you become familiar with 
fundamental hardware/software 
relationships. Software Design 
for Microprocessors is l™*) ,^ 
economically priced at v QP \ 
only $12.95'. Use the ^\{ 
coupon to order your leARnmG 
copy today. CCfYTCR 



TI Learning Center BY-4 

P.O. Box 5012, M/S 64 

Dallas, Texas 75222 

Please send me copies of 

(LCB 1891) Software Design for Micro- 
processors at $12.95* per copy. 

I enclose □ check D money order for 



□ I would also like a brochure on TI's 
Microprocessor Learning Modules. 

Mail checks and money orders to: P.O. 
Box 3G40, M/S 84, Dallas, Texas 75285. 
Postage paid. Add state and local taxes 
where applicable.! 

Mail company purchase orders to: P.O. 
Box 5012, M/S 84, Dallas, Texas 75222. 
Postage and taxes will be added to your 
invoice. 



NAME 



CITY STATE ZIP 

'Subject to change without notice 

t AL, AZ. CA, CO, CT, FL, GA, IA. IL. IN, KY. MA. 

MD, Ml, MN. MO, NC, NJ, NM, NY. OH, PA, TN. 
TX, UT. VA. WA.WI, 



Texas Instruments 



© 1976 Texas Instruments Incorporated 



NCORPORATED 




Now, you can buy an Altair 8800 or 
Altair 680 computer kit right off the 
shelf. Most all Altair options, software 
and manuals are also available. The 
MITS Dealer List below is just the 
beginning: 



off the shelf 



RETAIL COMPUTER STORE, 
410 N. E. 72nd 
Seattle, WA 98115 

(206)524-4101 



COMPUTER KITS 
1044 University Ave. 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
(415)845-5300 



INC. 

CTI DATA SYSTEMS 
3450 East Spring St. 
Long Beach, CA 90806 
(213)426-7375 

GATEWAY ELECTRONICS 
2839 W. 44th Ave. 
Denver, CO 80211 

(303)458-5444 



BYTETRONICS 
5604 Kingston Pike 
Knoxville, TN 37919 

(615)588-8971 



the COMPUTER STORE, INC. 
120 Cambridge 
Burlington, Mass. 01803 

(617)272-8770 



THE COMPUTER SYSTEMCENTER 



3330 Piedmont Road 
Atlanta, GA 30305 

(404)231-1691 



ARROWHEAD COMPUTER CO 
(THE COMPUTER STORE) 
11656 W Pico Blvd. 
Los Angeles, CA 90064 
(213)478-3168 



GATEWAY ELECTRONICS 
8123-25 Page Blvd. 
St. Louis, MO 63130 

(314)427-6116 



MARSH DATA SYSTEMS 
5405-B Southern Comfort Blvd 
Tampa, FL 33614 
(813)886-9890 



MICROSYSTEMS 
6605A Backlick Rd. 
Springfield, VA 22150 

(Washington DC area) 
(703)569-1110 



NOTE: Altair is a registered trademark of MITS, Inc. 



Building an 

M6800 Microcomputer 



Bob Abbott 
Route 4, Box 583 
Evergreen CO 80439 



Early in the introduction of the Motorola 
6800 system, an "Evaluation Kit" of seven 
family chips was made available. This kit 
contains the microprocessor, a read only 
memory preprogrammed with a system 
monitor called MIKBUG, two 128 by 8 bit 
random access memories, two peripheral 
interface adaptors and an asynchronous 
communications interface adaptor. These 
chips are all M6800 family- members, in- 
tended to work together and demonstrate a 
typical minimum microcomputer system. At 
this writing the kit cost is about $ I 50. 

Because a number of these kits were and 
still are being purchased by hobbyists, I felt 
a few notes on my own experiences in 
getting one up and running might be helpful. 

Construction 

System layout and design was de- 
liberately kept simple without compromising 
quality. Most components are on three 
Vector Inc 4066-5 wire wrap cards. These 
are extremely versatile plug-in boards having 
good power distribution and an excellent 
ground plane. The first card (see figure I) 



Photos by Sheldon Luper 



contains the processor circuit, system clock 
module (Motorola MC6871A), MIKBUG 
ROM, and the system reset circuit. Also 
included was a socket for a 512 byte 
erasable programmable read only memory 
for my own firmware. I decided to include a 
total of six programmable random access 
memory integrated circuits to total 768 
bytes, of which 74 bytes are dedicated to 
MIKBUG. These are mounted on their own 
card, connected as shown in figure 2. A third 
card (figure 3) is for input and output. It 
includes the two peripheral interface adap- 
tors, the asynchronous communications in- 
terface adaptor, a bit rate generator, an 
MCI 4536 programmable timer used for 
MIKBUG and the RS-232 serial interface 
buffers. 

All boards were wire wrapped using #30 
gauge Kynar insulated wire and a modified 
wrap which includes one turn of insulation 
on each wrap for mechanical durability. Wire 
wrap was selected for this system in lieu of 
printed circuit boards because of the ease of 
changing connections. Total wrapping time 
for the three boards was about 10 hours. 



40 



PROCESSOR CARD 



MEMORY CARD 



PERIPHERALS 
CARD 




POWER SUPPLY 
SUB ASSEMBLY 



I decided to use a commercially available 
power supply, a Power One model HTAA- 
16W, because I did not feel I could con- 
veniently duplicate the features of this unit 
for less than its $50 price tag. This supply 
provides 5 volts at 2 A foldback current 
limited and over voltage protected plus ± 12 
volts at 200 mA foldback current limited. 
The HTAA-I6W provides an adequate opera- 
ting margin for the present system and 
remains quite cool even in a hot ambient 
environment. In fact the entire system dis- 
sipates little heat; the case does not even gel 
warm to the touch. Photo I shows the 
physical arrangement of the boards and 
power supply for the system. 

In keeping with the concept of simplicity 
there arc only two controls on the front 
panel, a low priced kcyswilch for power 
on-off and a master system reset push 
button (see photo 2). The keyswitch pro- 
vides security from unauthorized tampering, 



the reset push button allows an exit from 
the target program back into MIKBUG. I 
considered adding a single step mode of 
operation but decided to delete that item 
clue to having MIKBUG in the system. 
However, the additional circuitry is minimal 
and is detailed in the M6800 Applications 
Manual if you feel this option necessary. 

I used a power line filter in this design 
primarily because the unit may be operated 
on lines shared with large motors. The power 
line filler is the large metal can attached to 
the rear of the enclosure near the fuse holder 
(see photo I). I have enough problems with 
my software without elevators and such 
confusing things even more. All IO was 
brought from dual inline sockets via ribbon 
cable to the out put connectors on the rear 
panel. One connector is the serial IO, the 
other is for the two parallel IO ports. 

The main chassis carries the power supply 
and the three board connectors plus room 



POWER LINE 
FILTER 



CHASSIS 

SERIAL CONNECTOR 



CHASSIS 

PIA CONNECTOR 



Photo 1: The inside of this 
home made small com- 
puter assembly is this neat 
layout of three processor 
cards, power supply and 
related components. The 
empty hole in the chassis 
base allows for one more 
card to be added at a 
future date. Wiring of the 
backplane is done on the 
underside of the card con- 
nectors. Note that only 
the MIKBUG ROM was 
plugged in when the photo 
was taken. 



41 



zv 



mmmm 



o 




(M 




* 




tO 




Q 


O 


O 


Q 


Q 


a 


Q 


O 


CM 


PO 


^r 


ifi 


ID 


r- 


CO 


en 






cc 



W Oco 
> -U3 

Z 
o 

2 



O-Nio^rmiDsiD 
< < < < < < < < < 



* 


fO 


CM 


— 






OF) 


r^ 


<p 


f 






P5 


CM 




ro 


cm 


CM 




""* 














O 




CM 


to 


fl- 


<m 


to 


r-. 


rn 


ro 


s)- 


m 


SB 


< 


< 


< 


< 


< 


< 


< 


< 


< 


< 


< 


< 


or 



"a: 


CO 


u 


X 


gu 


frc\j 


o s 


u S 


ml 




7" 




ot 








l- 




ul 




UJQ 



AAAAAAAAA AAA A 



WWWW 




« s P<,:ry<t^"o £co Q <n 




SAAAAAAAAAAAmoA 



'/"W/j -IOJ.IUOLU 3JDUJ3J/D UP IfilM p3UJlUD.l5o.ld i/OLZ l a l u l UD 40 (£01) lAIOH Dfl8>IIIM 3L /1 ^IJlld JOJ S}3Z/30S puo 

'8DIJ °\b°\ Bupunoqdp ias3.i '£j/ 'jojojsmtJ ijoop duj 'uj 'mssaoojd dm a/o sjuailoduioo .lofoui du± -pjoj jossbdojj : [ djn5i-j 




Photo 2: Corresponding to the simplicity of the interior layout, the front 
panel arrangement of this Motorola 6800 implementation has only two 
controls: A "Master System Reset" button for SI, and the power keyswitch, 
SZ 



for one expansion board. All bus connec- 
tions except power were wire wrapped; the 
+5 volt bus is 16 gauge stranded; the + 12 
volt and -12 volt buses are 24 gauge 
stranded; and ground is strapped to the 
chassis. Each board was buzzed out for 
wiring errors and each power pin on all 
sockets checked for correctness prior to 
insertion of the chips. 

Some precautions were followed when 
handling the integrated circuits, which can 
be damaged by static electricity. They were 
kept in conductive foam until used; and 
when inserting them in their sockets, I used 
a grounded wrist strap plus a shorted edge 
connector on the boards. These integrated 
circuits are extremely difficult to plug in 
without bending leads, but with patience all 
were finally in place. 

Bringing It Up 

Hooking up my SWTPC CT-1024 ter- 
minal to the little computer and powering 
up was a bit disappointing, as unfortunately 
there was no response. Troubleshooting this 
little system was surprisingly straightforward 
and in the following paragraphs I will try to 
explain the problems I encountered bringing 
it up. 

First analysis of the clock module out- 
puts showed both processor clock phases 
were well within the specs. I had, however, 
overlooked the fact that the Motorola clock 
module system phase two output leads the 
processor phase two output by about 30 ns. 



This is a nice feature for systems involving 
significant propagation delays on this line. 
The reason is that all data transfers take 
place on the fall of the phase two clock 
pulse. Data from the 6800 processor is only 
guaranteed good for 10 ns after the fall of 
the phase two input which normally also 
drives the data bus enable (DBE) input. If 
system phase two goes through enough 
gates, the total cumulative propagation delay 
could well mean that this strobe shows up 
after data becomes invalid. This problem has 
been nicely provided for by the designers of 
the clock module in allowing this 30 ns grace 
period. I had originally tied DBE to system 
phase two to avoid loading the MPU clock 
line, thus effectively negating that advan- 
tage. The cure was to move the DBE back to 
the processor's clock line. It should be noted 
that in some systems a longer data hold time 
may be required even with the leading 
system phase two. An example of this would 
be a system driving slow memory through 
bus expanders. In this case DBE may be held 
high after the fall of MPU phase two, 
stretching the valid data time. Also in 
passing I would like to mention the impor- 
tance of keeping the processor clock drive 
lines as short as possible. The 6800 processor 
is sensitive to clock pulse ringing; and due to 
the high capacitivc load of its clock inputs, 
long inductive clock lines may add up to a 
real system problem. So these lines must be 
kept short, less than two inches if possible. 
To continue with troubleshooting, check- 



43 



ing the output of the valid memory address 
(VMA) buffer showed considerable noise 
from the system phase two clock which was 
riding on the VMA signal. This clock line 
was being gated with buffered VMA in the 
same package, a 74H08, and there was 
apparently coupling to the other gates. The 
result was a fair amount of noise on these 
gate outputs and on the processor's address 
line A15. 

This situation was possibly aggravated by 
the fact that the 6800 processor is only 
specified to drive one standard TTL load 
plus 130 pF of capacitive loading, and the 
load on A15 was near the maximum. In any 
case I replaced the 74H08 with a CMOS 
74C08, and noted an immediate and drama- 
tic improvement in the condition of the 
system. The noise disappeared and every- 
thing then worked without further trouble. 



MIKBUG 

The system monitor comes with an En- 
gineering Note #100 which describes the 
operation of the program and includes a 
complete assembly listing. This program 
provides the following functions: 

• Load memory from keyboard or tape. 

• Examine and change memory. 

• Load to tape. 

• Print the contents of selected memory. 

• Examine and change the processor's 
registers. 

• Go to user program. 

• Evaluate a maskable interrupt. 

• Evaluate a non-maskable interrupt. 

• Set a breakpoint in the user program. 



The MIKBUG Note does not mention a 
couple of critical points. First, in order to 



Figure 2: Memory Card, The connections for memory are illustrated in this diagram. Six MC68I0L-I memory chips are used to 
implement a total of 768 bytes of memory. The present design does not decode all address bits, so use of large amounts of 
memory expansion will require some additional decoding logic in the chip select lines. 



(3> 






A6 



(Zj> 



i§>-^- 
ie>- 



A9 



+ 5 



AO 23 



_2i 



A2 21 



A3 20 



AI3 IP 



413 12. 



AI5 13 



MC68I0L-I 

ALLOCATED 

N AOOO-A07F , 



ADDRESS 
^INPUTS 

DATA \ 
BUS 



CSI- 
CSO+ 
CS2- 
CS3 + 



2 CJ_ 



GND 



CS4- 
RW 

CS5- 



DO 



<23 



- 125 — <3D IH> 



D3 



D4 



D5 



8 D6 



<33 



^-<m 



4 VMA02- 



<m 



20 24$* 



A0 23 



22 



20 



_LS. 



MC68IOL-I 

ALLOCATED 

OI00-OI7F 



ADDRESS 
) INPUTS 

DATA< 
BUS 



CSI- 
CSO + 
CS2- 
CS4- 



GND 



CS3+ 
RW 

CS5- 



8 06 



-<M 
-<jg 



km 



A2 



l2>- 



A3 






AO 






A5_ 



POWER CONDITIONING 



+ 5 
I C IS J2^ 



20 



.L2. 



MC68IOL-I 

ALLOCATED 

0OO0-007F 



ADDRESS 
INPUTS 

DATA ( 
BUS 



AS Li 



CSI- 
CS2- 
CS4- 
CS5- 

GND 

IT 

J 24' 



CS3+ 
RW 



DO 



PI 



D2 



_P_4_ 



D5 



8 D6 



D7 






3 VMA02 



16 RW 



<T5] 



Hi 



>+5 



MC68IOL-I 

ALLOCATED 

0180-OIFF 



ADDRESS 
INPUTS 

DATA\ 
BUS 



J 

CSO + 
CS3 + 
CSI- 
CS2- 






+ 5 
J 



GND 

I 



CS4- 
RW 



CS5- 



_fi2_ 



D3 



_U5_ 



8 D6 



<53 



14 VMAQ2- 



16 RW 



<3D 




1ioO M FTblMF'T OI ' lF 'T° l ' iF 



CI7 
Olp. F BYPASS AT EACH MEMORY IC'S PIN 24 



£=C Al 



gSC_Ai 



A5 



A9 



(72> fl0 23 
(Z0> 



12. 



A3 20 



|H> A8 21 
(64> 



A5_!i 



gg> A6 l7 



H>— 42 — 

m> A8 " 



[54> A9 l2 



AI5 14 



+ 5 
S'9 t24 



MC68I0L-I 
ALLOCATED 
0080-OOFF f 



ADDRESS 
\ INPUTS 

DATA< 
BUS 



CS0 + 
CSI- 
CS2- 
CS4- 

GND 



CS3+ 
RW 

CS5- 



_D_L 



-<§5| 

<H) 



03 



04 



^2 — <H] 
-<£D 

-oil 
-cm 



_D5_ 



5 BS. 



l_pj_ 



13 VMA02 ^ 



16 RW 



IC22 24^ 



23 



22 



\Z 21 



A6 17 



A7 I I 



_4fi 12_ 



2 DO 



IF 



3 D 



f—^ — <m 
4 ° 2 < g 

5 D3 i^ 



=— ^ <56^ 

5 " -^ 

6 ° 4 ^ 

7 ns . 



^ — Q2J 

. 7 D5 < go) 
s D6 5=; 



- — — — <^\ 

8 D6 < ga 

q n7 J=; 



13 VMA02 < Jg] 
I ' 6 RW < jg| 



44 



Figure 3: Peripherals Card. The system includes two PI As and one ACIA mounted on the peripherals. The PI A at addresses 
8008-800B is a general purpose IO port brought out to the PI A chassis connector via the two ribbon cables which plug into J 1 
and J 2. The PI A at locations 8004-8007 is dedicated to the MIKBUG program's 10 requirements. The ACIA at addresses 8010 
and 801 1 is used for additional serial 10 functions such as tape interfaces or another serial terminal. 




Q©©©©©© 




ir><l-'\/W < 



,r^-^ 



— tn 



q;<qOQOO(/)> 






LjO 

t-O 

JO 
-IO 
< CO 



cc tr o o 



3 s 



* 



^ 



6 z s 

cc uj ir 

CJCOCM ' 

CEtO 



So 



ccxo 
i-xo 






-<E] 
^§3 



3- 



^ 



4J 



^ 1 14 ^ ^mm 











J" 












-6 








^ 




















?« — 1 ' 


1 




r 












1 




1 


T1 


< 


®©©©®©© 


©©©©©©© 

CM 




0®©®®®© 


< 

O 


CM 

< 


CM 
CD 
O 


CD 
O 


r- 
m 

Q- 


©©©©©©© 




o 

< 

0- 


g 


CM 
< 

a. 


ro 

< 

Q. 


< 
a. 


< 

a. 


10 r- 
< < 

Q. □ 


id in 

Xi CD 

o_ a. 


CD 

a. 


CD 

a 


C\J 
CD 
0. 


m 




CD 

a. 


















O 


01 






1- 


id m 


t 


ro 


CM 


_ 









CY 


to 


<T 


tf> 


U> 


f- 






























£E< Q CD ^ CD 




O O LUO O 








o co< < cd 








O u°- 0«° 




3 . ■ ►'■ -§ £co 

5 < 5 $ <tD <=> 




0--t\J O 5 4 C O" uj QCD 








ID 


in 


CM 


C\J 


»n 


C\J tf 

CM 


1 — 

J CM 


CD 

m 


3 


m 


CM — 
rO po 


O 
rO 


01 
CM 


CO 
CM 


CM 


tD 
CM 










m 


jjj 




i * 




CO 





— CM 


fO 


^- 


lTI 


CD 


r* 






< 


< 


< 


< 




2 
> 


■€ 


► tr 




UJ 

cc 









a 

















N ro 






_ 




C\J 


CO 


« ? 








o 








s 




CJ 




^ 


C\J 







— 








CM 






o w 




m < 

+ 










cc — 












- 1 N 
















cc f° 








3 O ■* 






















Hlf- 







CO 



lh ~^ m° c 



CDO uj^ 



°co 

Q-Co 



_ _ fM_cor-r^- 



-$ 



OO-O^cn CD 
ij) id — Vf _1 

uoooouo 
2S5555S 

q CMfO M - in ID 

o uouoou 



© + 



art 

UJ o 

*z 

00 

Q- U 



4fc* HH 



© 




So 
500 

- _l -J 

CO 3 UJ 

<{j_tn 
0. < o- 
u_ cc x 
opo 



45 



DIP PLUGS 



117 VAC 
60 Hz 



CABLE 



PIA 
CHASSIS 
CONNECTOR 



CORCOM 
2K4 



SI 
RESET 
PUSHBUTTON 



O- 



1 




TO BACKPLANE POWER 
BUSES 



QAM^M^ 



-12 
VDC 



POWER 
LINE 
FILTER 
(OPTIONAL) 



TO 

Jl " 



,_/o n \ ii NEON PILOT 
\~L U T H LAMPASSEM 



KEYSWITCH 



FUSE I/2A 



TO 

J* 



POWER-ONE 
* HTAA-I6W 



TO J 3 



P3 

14 13 12 II 5 3 I 8 



7 6 13 I 10 9 



8 4 10 II 5 3 2 14 6 7 9 



DIP 
PLUG 



1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

PI 7 

8 

9 

10 

1 1 

14 

12 


PAO 


1 

3 

4 

6 

8 

10 

12 

24 

II 

9 

7 

2 

5 

23 
22 

21 
20 
18 
16 
14 
13 
15 
17 
19 


PAI 


PA2 


PA 3 


PA 4 


PA 5 


PA6 


PA7 


CAI 


CA2 


GND 


GND 


GND 


+ 5 


14 
1 

2 
3 
4 

P2 5 
6 

7 
8 
9 
10 


PBO 


PB 1 


PB2 


PB3 


PB4 


PB5 


PB6 


PB7 


CBI 


CB2 





Jro) CABLE 

■l-N 

SERIAL CHASSIS 
CONNECTOR 



Figure 4: Power Supply, Interconnection Cables and Reset Switch. 



jump to the user's program it is first neces- 
sary to print the contents of the processor 
registers, then change the program counter 
to the address of the target program. Sec- 
ondly, nothing is mentioned in that note 
regarding how to set a breakpoint into the 
target program. To do this, simply open the 
memory location at which you wish the 
breakpoint to occur and note the data. 
Change this location to a 3F, code for a 
software interrupt instruction (SWI). Now, 
jumping to the target program with the 
breakpoint "trap" will cause return to 
MIKBUG at the SWI instruction. When the 
program executes the SWI, the computer 
pushes the contents of CPU registers into the 
stack; MIKBUG prints the contents of these 
registers and resumes normal control. 

Summary 

This microcomputer was constructed 
with an absolute minimum of time or 
expense. Troubleshooting and bringing the 
system up was straightforward, requiring 
minimal effort. 



I feel the project's cost could be held 
under $250 with some prudent shopping. 
For the hobbyist on a limited budget, this 
approach might be the way to go. The 
addition of a TV typewriter produced a real 
operating computer system complete and 
lacking only somewhat in the area of ran- 
dom access memory space. Even so, there is 
plenty of memory for the average beginner. 
There is a considerable effort involved in 
writing and hand assembling programs long 
enough to fill all the available programmable 
memory. By the time the user reaches that 
stage of expertise he could start using his 
EROM to compensate for lack of program- 
mable memory. In any case random access 
memory can be added with due attention to 
address decoding details as program require- 
ments grow. 

I hope these notes are of some aid to 
those hobbyists already owning or con- 
sidering the purchase of the Motorola 
M6800 Evaluation Kit. I'm sure you will 
find this system as interesting to construct 
and use as I did." 



46 



Why pay s 3.000 00 

for o /ource li/ting 

of o higher level 

microcomputer language? 

/CELBPL 1/ here, 
flow. Only $ 49. 



Introducing the new microcomputer language 
that's simpler than machine language . . . 
SCELBAL. Scientific ELementary BAsic 
Language for 8008/8080 systems. This 
complete, illustrated program book . . . 
a gold mine for routines, techniques, source 
listings, flow charts and more . . . took several 
years to develop. Now it's yours for many 
years to come. The first time that intimate 
details of a higher level language program 
has been offered to the public at such a low, 
low price. 

Look at all you get! 
5 Commands: SCR, LIST, RUN, 
SAVE, LOAD. 14 Statements: 
REM, LET, IF . . . THEN, GOTO, 
FOR with STEP, END, INPUT, 




PRINT, NEXT, GOSUB, RETURN and optional 
DIM. 7 Functions: INT, SGN, ABS, SQR, RND, 
CHR, TAB. And, it runs in 8K and more. 

You read right ! This book is yours for only 
$49 ppd. Now you'll have all the data you 
need to custom-tailor a high level language 
for your system ... at a fraction of what it 
might cost until now. The program alone is 
worth more than its price. The revealed 
secrets of its operation are virtually priceless. 
Order today ! "SCELBAL — A Higher Level 
Language for 8008/8080 Systems." 
Only $49 ppd. Delivery in June. 



/HOCKIfK! 



ICELBI COMPUTER 

CONSULTING INC. 1322 Boston Post Rd. Rear 

Milford, CT 06460/(203) 874-1573 

Master Charge, Postal and Bank Money 
Orders only accepted. Pricing, specifications, 
availability subject to change without notice. 
Prices for U.S. and Canadian delivery at 
book mailing rate. Add $2.50 for each pub- 
lication if Priority Air Service (U.S.) desired. 
Overseas include $5.00 for each publication 
for Airmail service. 




Strike a MATCH 



Phillip L Hansford 
6841 Haywood St 
TujungaCA 91042 



Although this article is written from the 
standpoint of a MITS Altair computer, what 
is said here is also applicable to other 
systems. The original idea was simple: Using 
only a basic Altair (which started with 256 
words of memory) and no peripherals, build 
a program which would match penpals ac- 
cording to age, vocation, and interests. It 
was originally experimental, written just to 
see if it could be done. But the program has 
proved so practical that we have been using 
it continually for our penpal club. The 
original program has been expanded to select 
compatible penpals from more than 200 
choices. It has application wherever it is 
necessary to match data. In the version 
described here, a simple executive program 
can select the matching program as well as 
several other programs located elsewhere in 
memory. The executive reads the Altair 
sense switches for its inputs. 



Table I: For the penpal mulching, a code number is determined by age, 
vocation, and other Factors as shown here. 



LANGUAGE 
AGE 



K 



X 



INTERESTS 
VOCATION 



11 11 11 11 



The four bit pairs are written as a number from to 3. Each bit pair specifies one of 
four possibilities. 



Bit 
















Pattern 


Num 


ber 


Age 


Languc 


ge 


Interests 


Vocation 


00 







under 23 


English 




stamps 


professional 


01 


1 




24-29 


Spanish 




travel 


worker 


10 


2 




30-35 


French 




arts 


student 


11 


3 




over 35 


Multilin 


gual 


other 


other 



This shows an example of how selection might be made. The actual categories in use now 
vary somewhat from this. 



Penpals 

Each penpal has an octal file number, and 
an octal code number which specifies several 
characteristics such as age, vocation and 
interests. Therefore, two words of memory 
are required for each person. The original 
version of the program gave us a capacity of 
80 people; but when we added additional 
memory, the Uble area was expanded to 
hold 208 people. You could add even more 
memory to the program if desired, but in 
our use we did not need it; and the file 
numbers are 8 bit octal which limited us to 
255 non zero names. (For uniqueness, file 
numbers should not be used more than 
once.) For this program, file numbers cannot 
be zero (which is interpreted as no answer); 
and interest code numbers can be neither 
zero (space), nor 377 (the stop byte). 

Since there are presently no peripherals in 
the system, the information must be entered 
on the sense switches and read out in the 
Altair memory display (LEDs). Input output 
devices would make it easier to use the 
program, but would also require additional 
hardware and software. In practice, when we 
have a penpal to match against other pen- 
pals, we first determine the type of person 
he wants to write. This information is 
converted into a series of 4 digits using table 
1 and the resulting 8 bit number is entered 
on the sense switches once the program has 
been started. When the program is run, the 
computer reads the sense switches, then 
searches its memory table until a match is 
found. The search is begun on the first odd 
address in the file, and even addresses are 
skipped. This is because the file and code 
numbers are adjacent in the memory. The 
file number is at an even address and the 
code number is at an odd address. If a match 
is found, the program decrements its address 
pointer to the even address and moves the 



48 



file number to the next available output 
location. It restores its pointer to the odd 
address and then increments the pointer 
twice to the next odd address and compares 
once again. If a match is not found, it 
increments the pointer twice to access the 
next record. The sequence continues until a 
377 stop byte is found, which indicates that 
the end of the data table has been reached. 
At that point the program then jumps to a 
loop near the output addresses. The com- 
puter can then be stopped. The entire 
operation of the program takes the pro- 
verbial wink of an eye. The examine next 
switch is then used several times until the 
first output address is reached and the 
answer read on the panel LEDs. The next 
answer is available at the following address 
(depress examine next again) and so on. A 



zero in the output memory location means 
there are no more answers (or that there 
never were any). 

The whole program is fairly simple, but 
we had to add a few touches of finesse 
before it would work properly. The output 
list of matches has ten locations allocated at 
the top of the 512 word region occupied by 
the program. This is adequate for our use; 
but if you anticipate more than ten answers 
at one time, you should modify the program 
to expand this space. The previous answers 



Listing!: The MATCH program specified in symbolic assembly language 
form, with absolute code for the program, starting at location 002/000 in 
memory address space. The notation A(X) is used to indicate the address of 
X. DS is used as a pseudo operation for reserving storage. DB is a pseudo 
operation used to indicate definition of constant bytes. 



Intelese 
















Octal Address 


Octal Code 


Label 


Op 


Operands 


Commentary 


002/000 


041 


364 


003 


MATCH 


LXI 


H,A (OUTPUT) 


point to output area; 


002/003 


042 


056 


002 




SHLD 


POINTER 


save pointer address; 


002/006 


257 






CLRLOOP: 


XRA 


A 


clear accumulator; 


002/007 


167 








MOV 


M,A 


move zero to memory; 


002/010 


043 








INX 


H 


increment memory pointer; 


002/01 1 


175 








MOV 


A,L 


test low order of memory 


002/012 


376 


377 






CPI 


377 


against highest value; 


002/014 


302 


006 


002 




JNZ 


CLRLOOP 


if not equal then continue; 


002/017 


066 


307 






MVI 


M,307 


place restart code in memory; 


002/021 


062 


054 


002 




STA 


CALLBUFF 


set call buffer to 377; 


002/024 


000 








NOP 




left over NOP; 


002/025 


061 


000 


001 




LXI 


SP,A (STACK) 


initialize stack pointer; 


002/030 


041 


055 


002 




LXI 


H,A (INBUF) 


point to input buffer; 


002/033 


333 377 






IN 


SENSW 


read sense switches; 


002/035 


167 








MOV 


M,A 


save in input buffer; 


002/036 


021 


115 


002 




LXI 


D,A (TABLE +1) 


point to first odd data entry; 


002/041 


257 








XRA 


A 


clear accumulator; 


002/042 


276 








CMP 


M 


is table code equal zero? 


002/043 


304 


060 


002 




CNZ 


MATCHER 


if not then perform all tests; 


002/046 


303 


360 


003 




JMP 


DONELOOP 


terminate the program; 


002/051 


000 


000 


000 


DUMMY: 


DB 


0,0,0 


unused space; 


002/054 


000 






CALLBUFF: 


DB 





call buffer for executive; 


002/055 


000 






INBUF: 


DB 





input buffer area; 


002/056 


000 000 




POINTER: 


DB 


0,0 


output pointer; 


002/060 


106 






MATCHER: 


MOV 


B,M 


B := INBUF; 


002/061 


032 






REMATCH: 


LDAX 


D 


A := TABLE [current odd byte] ; 


002/062 


376 


377 






CPI 


377 


is odd byte stop character? 


002/064 


310 








RZ 




if so then return to caller; 


002/065 


270 








CMP 


B 


is odd byte equal match byte? 


002/066 


312 


076 


002 




JZ 


ITMATCHZ 


if so then go process match; 


002/071 


023 






NEXTREC: 


INX 


D 


D := D + 1 ; [point to the 


002/072 


023 








INX 


D 


D := D + 1 ; next table entry] 


002/073 


303 


061 


002 




JMP 


REMATCH 


go retry with next entry; 


002/076 


033 






ITMATCHZ: 


DCX 


D 


point to name number of record; 


002/077 


052 


056 


002 




LHLD 


POINTER 


point H,L to output; 


002/102 


032 








LDAX 


D 


A := TABLE [current even byte] ; 


002/103 


167 








MOV 


M,A 


M(POINTER) :=A; 


002/104 


043 








INX 


H 


POINTER := POINTER +1; 


002/105 


042 


056 


002 




SHLD 


POINTER 


save POINTER in memory; 


002/110 


023 








INX 


D 


point to odd byte again; 


002/111 


303 


071 


002 




JMP 


NEXTREC 


go handle next record; 


002/114 








TABLE: 


DS 


416D 


reserve 416 bytes storage; 


003/356 


000 


377 






DB 


0,377 


end of data area is set; 


003/360 


373 






DONELOOP 


El 




enable interrupts; 


003/361 


303 


360 


003 




JMP 


DONELOOP 


and commence endless loop; 


003/364 








OUTPUT 


DS 


12 


reserve 12 bytes storage 


003/376 


000 






DONERST 


NOP 




NOP shows no answer; 


003/377 


307 








RST 





program restarts when incremented by hand 



49 



also must be cleared each time the program 
is run. The first 24 bytes of the program 
were added to perform this initialization and 
some other housekeeping operations. A zero 
on the sense switch inputs is supposed to 
give no output from the program. We ac- 
complish the test for this condition by 
placing the search and match in a subroutine 
and calling it if, and only if, the sense 
switches are not zero. 



Expanding the Altair 

The program shown in listing 1 is a final 
version of this MATCH program application 
which we concocted after a total of 1024 
programmable RAM words was implemented 
on our Altair. This allowed us to make the 
data table accomodate 208 names with the 
program and data located at addresses 
002/000 to 003/377. The lower 5 12 bytes 
of the memory were devoted to a simple 



executive program used to select wh\ch 
program to run, and space for other pro- 
grams. The original matching program had 
an occasional bug: If you forgot to reset it 
before running, it might not jump to the 
output loop (the stack would overflow). 
Also, as mentioned earlier, more than ten 
matches was not acceptable and could con- 
ceivably cause additional bugs. 

To overcome all this, the initial stack 
address was moved to location 000/377. 
Remember that with the additional memory, 
the match program was now moved to 
002/000 through 003/377. Although the 
stack is allocated to addresses lower than 
000/377, the stack pointer is initialized at 
001/000, since the first location is ignored 
by stack operations. For ordinary uses, I 
allow at least 20 words for the stack. An 
enable interrupt was added near the end of 
the program (003/360) to coordinate system 
operation. An original halt at the end of 



Listing 2: An EXECUTIV program for a minimal system. This shows a 
simple little program which is accessed via the Aux 2 switch interrupt and is 
used to read the sense switches and test for a particular program 
identification code. A flag called CALLBUFF (located in MATCH) is 
referenced to determine whether data input or a program selection is desired. 



Intelese 












Octal Address 


Octal Code 


Label 


Op 


Operands 


000/000 


000 




MSTART: 


NOP 




000/001 


303 000 


002 




JMP 


MATCH 


000/004 


\ 










to 


> this area is 


open for arbitra 


ry prograi 


Timing use; 


000/067 


) 










000/070 


333 377 




EXECUTIV: 


IN 


SENSW 


000/072 


006 377 






MVI 


B.377 


000/074 


016 377 




OTLOOP: 


MVI 


C.377 


000/076 


015 




ITLOOP: 


DCR 


C 


000/077 


302 076 


000 




JNZ 


ITLOOP 


000/102 


005 






DCR 


B 


000/103 


302 074 


000 




JNZ 


OTLOOP 


000/106 


107 






MOV 


B,A 


000/107 


072 054 


002 




LDA 


CALLBUFF 


000/112 


267 






ORA 


A 


000/113 


170 






MOV 


A,B 


000/114 


310 






RZ 




*000/115 


376 xxx 






CPI 


P1 


**000/117 


312 yyy 


vw 




JZ 


PROG1 


*000/122 


376 xxx 






CPI 


P2 


**000/124 


312 yyy 


vvv 




JZ 


PROG2 


*000/127 


376 xxx 






CPI 


P3 


**000/131 


312 yyy 


wv 




JZ 


PROG3 


000/134 


267 






ORA 


A 


* "000/ 135 


302 yyy 


vvv 




JNZ 


PROG4 


000/140 


307 






RST 






Commentary 

this blanks display when stopped; 
RST gets execution to MATCH; 



A := sense switches; 
B := 377 [timing loop constant] ; 
C := 377 [timing loop constant] ; 
C :=C- 1; 

if C NE then repeat inner loop; 
B := B - 1,- 
if B NE then repeat outer loop; 
B := A [save sense switch input] ; 
A := CALLBUFF [continue if else restart] ; 
test A and set flags; 
A := B [flags are unaffected] ; 
if zero then return to program; 
is program 1 symbol present? 
if so then go to that program; 
is program 2 symbol present? 
if so then go to that program; 
is program 3 symbol present? 
if so then go to that program; 
is MATCH program symbol present (0)? 
if not then go to program 4; 
otherwise call MATCH with restart; 

Notes: 

* "xxx" should be replaced with an arbitrary bit pattern. This becomes the symbol which identifies the given program, which 
will be input from the sense switches and matched in this little executive program. 

** "WV WV" should be replaced by the address (low order first) of the program being accessed. 

Any program which is to have provision for a restart should clear CALLBUFF and then issue an RST 7 to enter the executive. 
The executive will then read the sense switches as an input to the program and return with the input in the accumulator, instead 
of choosing another program. 

The timing loop used to delay approximately 0.75 seconds is programmed according to the technique described by James 
Hogenson in "Can Your Computer Tell Time?", page 82, BYTE December 1975. 



50 



Figure I: A hardware modification to the 
Altair 8800 which allows the Aux 2 switch 
to generate an interrupt. This modification is 
used to coordinate operation of the simple 
executive and inputs to the MA TCH pro- 
gram described in this article. 



AUX 2 
CENTER 



UPPER CONTACT 
fit FOR DOWN POSITION 

RESET SWITCH 
CENTER POINT 



-t>PINT 

N0.73 ON 

MOTHER 

BOARD 



processing was changed to an RST 0, so you 
can run the program from an output loca- 
tion where threre is no answer if you like, 
rather than resetting the program. For the 
configuration shown in listing 1, the high 
address of the output list is the same 
throughout, so some provisions to change 
this at 002/017 through 002/024 were made 
into no-ops without affecting performance. 
It was then possible to insert instructions at 
002/017 and 002/020 to load a 307 (RST 0) 
at the logical end of program execution. 
Since the no-op before it (at 003/376) was 
automatically cleared by the initialization 
part of the program, this meant that up to 
1 2 answers could be accommodated and that 
if the program was reset, it would properly 
operate the next time. Note that if more 
than 10 answers occur, it is necessary to 
keep careful track of them so as to not 
mistake the restart as an answer. More than 
1 2 answers will overflow the memory and be 
ignored in this configuration. If you have 
memory beyond 003/377, then the answers 
will keep on going unless you add a provi- 
sion to limit their number. This is easily 
accomplished in about four bytes, but much 
of the program (and jump addresses) must 
be relocated to do this. A flag called 
CALLBUFF (002/054) was initialized to all 
ones using bytes 002/021 - 002/023, per- 
mitting system versatility, since the execu- 
tive tests for it before selecting a new 
function. Space is available at 002/024 and 
002/051 - 002/053 to accommodate pro- 
gram changes, or two additional data pairs 
may be added to the data table. (We didn't 
need to do either of these, so the available 
space is left for future changes.) The final 
form of the program is shown in listing 1 . 

The executive program shown in listing 2 
drives our system. It makes use of an 
interrupt switch which was added to the 
Altair on the second auxiliary switch (see 
figure 1). This interrupt function is easily 
accomplished by running a jumper from the 
center terminal on the Aux 2 switch to 
ground (a convenient point is the center 



terminal on the reset switch) and another 
wire from the upper contact on the Aux 2 
switch (for down position) down flat against 
the board and across to backplane pin #73 
(PINT) on the mother board. Use the unused 
hole at the end of the mother board op- 
posite the other wire connections. Be sure 
you locate the correct hole! This change will 
cause a program which has enabled inter- 
rupts to restart at 000/070 when the Aux 2 
switch is depressed. 

Although the executive program is very 
small and straightforward, it is effective and 
can direct the computer to any of five 
distinct locations (including the matching 
program). To operate in the executive con- 
figuration, run from address 000/000. The 
executive will automatically jump to the 
matching program and remain in the output 
loop until stopped or interrupted. To run a 
different program in the system, the appro- 
priate code is now placed on the sense 
switches and the interrupt (Aux 2) de- 
pressed. There will be a delay of about 0.75 
second, to give you time to release the 
switch, followed by the selected program. 
When the system is first run through the 
matching program, it initializes CALLBUFF 
to all ones. The executive tests this location 
to ensure this condition before it selects a 
new program. If all zeros are present at the 
call buffer, the executive will instead return 
to the previous (interrupted) program. Thus 
data can be input into a program (it will 
appear in the A register) with the sense 
switches and interrupt; just clear CALL- 
BUFF (002/054) in your program. Also 
allow for the use of A,B, and C registers by 
the executive. Be sure that each program 
either resets the stack pointer or returns to 
the matching program at its completion. 
Otherwise the stack might get too large and 
overflow. Actually, this is all a lot easier 
than it might sound. A plain Altair computer 
is an exciting device and machine language 
can be easy to use. A small executive 
organizes it all together. What we have here 
is the beginning of a true system of hardware 
and software." 



51 



Letters 



Establishing BYTE Com- 
mittees of Correspondence 

To encourage corre- 
spondence among readers, 
beginning with letters re- 
ceived after May 1 1976, 
BYTE will print the name 
and full address of each 
published letter's author. 
If you do not wish your 
address to be printed, 
mark it "do not print my 
full address" or the logical 
equivalent. 




HIGH LEVEL LANGUAGES 

First let me congratulate you on such a 
fine magazine. I receive many different 
magazines and I like yours the most. 

I would also like to congratulate you on 
trying to produce some standards in the 
hobbyist field. 

1 have noticed your disappointment in 
any high level languages offered for com- 
puter hobbyists and this brings me to write 
to you. I would like to get hobbyists' ideas 
of what would be a good high level language. 
I'm not guaranteeing anything, but if I can 
compile a list of what other hobbyists are 
looking for in a high level language, we 
(computer hobbyists) might be able to write 
our own standard language. 

Of course, I have my own ideas and with 
all the different machines available, I think 
the only way a person could do it is to draw 
an extensive flow chart and let each person 
implement it on his machine. 

The flow chart could cover a wide variety 
of things and if your system doesn't have 
some of the hardware necessary, then you 
would have to implement that portion. 

Anyway, it's an idea and I would like to 
hear from hobbyists on what they think the 
high level language should be able to do. 

Robert Sikes 

Rt5 Box 174 

Biloxi MS 39532 

IRAN INTO YOUR MAGAZINE 
THE OTHER DAY 

As APO 09205 is in the mountains of 
Iran, I was not able to visit my local book 
store and purchase the previous issues of 
BYTE. If at all possible I would like to 
purchase issues #1 to #4, one copy of each. 

Donald N Wagman 

USAFE DET-5 ETU-3 

Box 1600 

APO New York 09205 



WOULD-BE AUTHORS, TAKE NOTE 

You may have many readers, who, like 
myself, have a good background in RF 
communications, digital logic, industrial elec- 
tronics and test equipment. These are 
mostly of a hardware nature and when I 
look through BYTE some of the programing 
articles hardly resemble English. That's fine 
for those "in the know," but you need a 
series to take the hardware fans by the hand 
and lead them to software. 

The equipment advertised in BYTE has a 
strong appeal to a hardware man who is not 
scared of chips, boards, interface gadgets and 
power supplies. The question is: After it's 
built, what then? I can't talk to it! 

I think your readers and particularly your 
advertising customers would benefit from 
mass conversion of hardware people to the 
point that they would buy an Altair or 
SWTPC job with no fear that the fun would 
end with the last solder connection. 

Think it over; the vast majority of elec- 
tronics people are "hardware" at present; 
there is a fortune to be made! 

Gordon D Stewart 

Thompson, Manitoba 

Canada 

BYTE article SNOBOLs 

I enjoy your magazine a lot, and espe- 
cially liked the February issue article on 
processing algebraic expressions. Maurer's 
article was so interesting that I tried it out in 
a high level language (SNOBOL) and it 
worked great! My next step is an assembly 
language implementation for my M6800and 
MCS6502 processors. I would really appre- 
ciate a similar approach on "hashing" or 
symbol table lookup. 

Don Peters 
Nashua NH 

ANY AUDIO WILL WORK 

As a present (or past) subscriber to 
several well known electronics magazines, 
and the receiver of five free-bee trade maga- 
zines (electronics) and three free-bee com- 
puter magazines, I was overjoyed to see the 
birth of BYTE. It has definitely filled a void! 

My reason for writing this letter (besides 
patting you and your associates on the back) 
is to find out additional info on the BYTE 
standard for magnetic recording as it applies 
to reel-to-reel recording. I presently have a 
Teac tape deck which is capable of recording 
at 3-3/4 ips and 7-1/2 ips only. Needless to 
say, all the talk in the world about 1-7/8 ips 



52 



doesn't do me any good. I know that with 
higher speed I can get better throughput and 
better frequency response, but the exact 
way to adapt articles like Don Lancaster's 
"BIT BOFFER" and Harold Mauch's "Digi- 
tal Data on Cassette Recorders" eludes me. I 
presently am trying to get a used TTY 
working and when I finish that, I intend to 
implement an MOS Technology 6502 micro- 
processor system. At this point I will want 
to implement some means of mass storage; 
and considering that the only available de- 
vice I have is the Teac tape deck . . . Well, 
you get the idea. 

James T Lareau 
Parsippany N) 

The standard defined in BYTE's February 
and March issues as a result of the meeting 
we sponsored last fall might also have been 
named the "audio information exchange" 
standard. The two articles describe a way to 
generate and interpret audio wave forms. 
Any recording medium — such as your 
TEAC tape deck — which can faithfully 
reproduce the audio frequencies in the band- 
width of an inexpensive cassette deck could 
also be used with equipment built to the 
standard. Besides reel to reel tape, other 
media potentially usable include telephone 
channels, radio transmission of voice grade 
information, and phonograph records. 

PORNOGRAPH RECORDS 

When first your magazine I did see 

I had no idea of what the contents could be. 

A cover of blue titled BYTE 

to me implied articles perverted authors 

would write. 
Amidst other periodicals like Kill, Stab, and 

Maim 
BYTE is a much needed change. 
To cut this short and save some time 
I would like to subscribe for three years 

time. 
And please, kind sirs, charge this to Bank- 

Americard No. xxxx xxx xxx xxx 
because I haven't had money since I can 

remember. 
In closing, one last request 
please send all back issues you possess! 

Steve R Burns 
Ypsilanti Ml 

SAGE ADVICE 

I would like to let anyone who is exper- 
imenting with building his own computer 
system or microprocessor know that I would 
like to communicate with him, swap ideas, 
software and hardware. 

I am currently building up two micropro- 



If you want a microcomputer 
with all of these standard features • . . 




• 8080 MPU (The one 
with growing soft- 
ware support) 

• 1024 Byte ROM 
(With maximum ca- 
pacity of 4K Bytes) 
•1024 Byte RAM ] 
(With maximum 
capacity of 2K 
Bytes) 

•TTY Serial I/O 
•EIA Serial I/O 
•3 parallel l/O's 
•ASCII/Baudot 
terminal com- 
patibility with TTY machines or video units 

• Monitor having load, dump, display, insert 
and go functions 



• Complete with card 
connectors 
• Comprehensive 
User's Manual, plus 
Intel 8080 User's 
Manual 
• Completely 
factory assembled 
and tested — not 
a kit 

• Optional ac- 
cessories: Key- 
board/video 
display, audio 
cassette modem 
interface, power supply, ROM programmer 
and attractive cabinetry ... plus more options 
to follow. The HAL MCEM-8080. $375 



then let us send you our card. 



HAL Communications Corp. has 
been a leader in digital communi- 
cations for over half a decade. 
The MCEM-8080 microcomputer 
shows just how far this leadership 
has taken us ... and how far it 
can take you in your applications. 
That's why we'd like to send 
you our card— one PC 
board that we feel is the 
best-valued, most complete 



m 



microcomputer you can buy. For 
details on the MCEM-8080, write 
today. We'll also include compre- 
hensive information on the HAL 
DS-3000 KSR microprocessor- 
based terminal, the terminal that 
gives you multi-code compati- 
bility, flexibility for future 
changes, editing, and a 
convenient, large video 
display format. 



HAL Communications Corp. 

Box 365, 807 E. Green Street, (Irbana, Illinois 61801 

Telephone (217) 367-7373 



53 



cessors using an Intel 8080 and a Motorola 
6800. I would also like to swap or sell (for 
storage and shipping costs) an IBM line 
printer, card reader and tape drive that came 
off the famous SAGE Air Defense com- 
puters the US Air Force operates. I bought 
the machines when the Air Force closed its 
SAGE Air Base in New York. I also have 
some large scale computing facilities avail- 
able which may be of interest to experi- 
menters. 

Milton Goodman 

Techno cadimum Data Corp 

101 Park Av, Suite 707 

New York NY 10017 

I THINK YOU BLEW YOUR COVER! 

The cover of your December issue was a 
giant step in the wrong direction in terms of 
getting home computers accepted by the 
non-participating percent of the household. 
The gift recipient pictured is keeping the rest 
of the family away, the little girl behind him 
looks upset or worried (note the eyebrows) 
and the ever so attractively depicted wife 
could kill Santa with that look. Santa 
doesn't seem very confident. . . . 

You should have considered the two- 
edged aspect of humor before giving a 
computer-wary family a blueprint in negative 
reactions this Christmas. Once the first good 
natured reaction to the cartoon drifts away, 
the shopper's buying power may not be used 
to purchase that ultimate toy. 

I might note here that I think the 
CONTENTS of your magazine are first rate. 
The articles are interesting, well chosen, and 
well written. Topics are relevant to what's 
going on. On the whole, your magazine 
stands out, mercifully, in the oceans of 
newsletter material available, as a focal point 
of small systems information. 

B L Donelan 
San Diego CA 

So far, yours is the only comment, one 
way or the other, on the subject of cover 
materials. Any others? 

DISDAIN 

What can I say to my wife after I tell her 
I want to "invest" our savings into a 
minicomputer and she says "What do you 
want with a computer?" with complete 
disdain. I need a short concise reply that 
justifies the expenditure as well as forever 
silences her on the matter. Hurry! 

Charles Hurlocker 
Seattle WA 98105 

It's an "automated busywork eliminator. " 



UTILIZING SPECIAL CASES 

Looking at the code for the 6800 cater- 
pillar program (BYTE, March 1976, page 90) 
reminded me of some rules of thumb for the 
Motorola device: 

1. The X and S registers (if not in use at 
the moment) are very handy for mov- 
ing 16 bit fields around. 

2. When using instructions which do not 
have direct addressing, space can often 
be saved by clearing X and using in- 
dexed addressing. 

3. The CLR instruction often wastes 
space. Clearing A, B or X and then 
storing is usually better. 

Applying these rules and one dirty trick 
gives the following version of the program: 

1000 CE 3F 00 CATERPLR LDX sS3F00 

1003 DF 12 STX R2 

1005 DF 11 STX R1 

1007 DF 10 STX RO 

1009 OD SEC 

100A CE 03 FF NEWMOVE LDX =S03FF 

100D 09 WAITLOOP DEX 

100E 26 FD BNE WAITLOOP 

1010 66 13 ROR R3,X 
1012 66 12 ROR R2,X 
1014 66 11 ROR R1.X 
1016 66 10 ROR R0.X 
1018 DE 10 LDX R0 
101A FF 01 4C STX LAMP0 
101D DE 12 LDX R2 

101 F FF 01 4E STX LAMP2 

1022 20 E6 BRA NEWMOVE 

This version requires only 36 bytes versus 
the original 54. 

One other very minor point. Since we are 
shifting a 7 bit caterpillar along the lights, 
the original program could be modified to 
eliminate the SEC instruction. Simply make 
the first instruction LDAA #$7F, putting all 
7 bits in RO. It would then not be necessary 
to clear the carry bit because of the CLR 
instructions (which always clear C). 

No doubt shorter versions of this program 
will be devised. My purpose in writing was to 
give a little boost to the X and S registers. 
Of course, a good discussion of the S register 
qua stack pointer could fill a small book. 

George E Beine 

President, Gnomon, Inc 

Cincinnati OH 

PS When is Motorola going to take a firm 
stand on the NOP? As one example of 
their vacillation, compare pages 3-2, 3-3 
and 3-4 with page A-44 in their M6800 
Microprocessor Programming Manual 
(second edition). 

Excellent! Optimization is the art of re- 
ducing the memory required by a program, 
or the execution time required, or both. 
Optimization can be one of the most inter- 
esting challenges, especially when the task 



54 



becomes reducing code for an already tight 
routine such as the one printed here. 

BYTE's policy with respect to programs 
submitted by authors (including those of a 
certain editor) is to inspect the accuracy of 
the code submitted with respect to accom- 
plishing the tasks described by the article, 
but to avoid changing code unless a technical 
error is found. Thus in many of the exam- 
ples of code printed in the magazine, there 
will no doubt be places where optimization 
could reduce memory requirements or speed 
up execution, as in this fine example pro- 
vided by George Beine. 

THE COMPUTER ARCHITECT'S 
SEARCH FOR UTOPIA 

In a letter in the March BYTE, Michael A 
Sicilian writes, "One way around the prob- 
lem of 8080 programs not working on a 
6800 and vice versa might be to identify the 
256 most valuable and powerful instructions 
we might desire in an 'ideal' 8 bit proc- 
essor." Mr Sicilian has a truly wonderful and 
marvelous idea. 

It is such a good idea that Intel has 
already done it. They call the result the 
8080. Motorola has already done it and they 
call it the M6800. Advanced Micro Devices 
looked at the 8080 and decided it is almost 
right; they call their improved 8080 the 
9080. When MOS Technology did it they 
called the result the 6501 (and the 6502 and 
the 6503). And Fairchild thinks the F8 has 
the most valuable and powerful instruction 
set possible. RCA says, "No, it is the 
CDP1801, COSMAC." There are more. Mr 
Sicilian would join this illustrious company. 
More power to him. 

Unfortunately, when he has completed 
this tremendous labor of love, he will find 
that he has not replaced Babel with a world 
that speaks only one language. Alas, he will 
have added one more language to Babel. But 
pursue the effort. Once BYTE carries a 
description of this new best of all possible 
instruction sets, some manufacturer may 
well decide to immortalize it in silicon. 

Daniel Lance Herrick 

Owosso Ml 



HELP! 



Who are suppliers 
equipment in Canada? 



of computers and 

T M Atwood 

131 9 Stafford Dr N 

Lethbridge, Alberta 

Canada TIH2C3 



We'd let you know if we knew. Can any 
readers help Mr Atwood? 



iNTRoduciNq The 



POLY-88 



(FoRMERly MICRO ALTAIR) 




The complete Computer System 
that requires just a keyboard 
and TV monitor for use. 

The POLY-88 is: 
The hardware — video terminal interface board, CPU/ROM/ 

RAM board, backplane, power supply and cabinet; 
The software — video driver, debugger, operating kernel 

supplied on ROM; 
The personal computer system — complete, expandable, no 

loose ends — a complete and powerful tool; 
THE SOLUTION BOX FROM POLYMORPHIC SYSTEMS. 
Applications include smart terminals, data acquisition systems, 
games, accounting, front-end for a larger computer-anywhere a 
little processing is required. 

COMPLETE SYSTEM [EXCEPT FOR MONITOR AND ASCII KEY- 
BOARD] $575.00 KIT. DELIVERY 60 DAYS - SERIAL 1/0 AND 
CASSETfE OPTIONS AVAILABLE. 




A3» 




,»v 



$230.00 assd. 
$260.00 assd. 



. *v\v 



Go to your local computer store and compare 

Video Terminal Interface — characters are stored in on-board 
memory. Entire screen may be read or written in 20 millisec- 
onds. Software includes a text editing system with scrolling 
and insert and delete by character or line. 
VTI/32 32 character line $160.00 kit 

VTI/64 64 character line $185.00 kit 

VTI/SK Socket kit for VTI kit $ 15.00 
Delivery — 30 days 

Analog Interface — 1 or 2 channels of analog output with 10 
bits of resolutions (0-1 0V or + 5V with bipolar option), 6 bits of 
latched digital output and 8 analog comparators for software 
controlled A/D conversions. 

ADA/1 1 analog output $135.00 kit $175.00assd. 

ADA/2 2 analog outputs $185.00 kit $235.00 assd. 

ADA/SK Socket kit for ADA kit $ 10.00 
Delivery — 30 days 

All prices and specifications subject to change without notice. Prices are USA only. 
Calif, residents add 6% sales tax. Add 5% shipping, handling, and insurance. 

POLYMORPHIC SYSTEMS 



737 S. Kellogg, Goleta, CA 93017 



(805) 967-2351 



trcl and Master Chiirqe Accepted 



The 



: • ; • 



OExpj 



Let Processor Technology expand your Altairo 

and reliable plug-in modules 




The Communicator 



Your Altoir already has the intelligence, 
so let our VDM-1 Display Module make the 
best of its capacity to communicate. This is 
not a limited "TV Typewriter." The VDM-1 is 
an ultra-high speed output device, built 
right into your 8800 system. 

The VDM-1 generates sixteen 64- 
character lines in a large easy-to-read font 
with both upper and lower case letters. 
It contains IK (1024) bytes of random 
access memory to which the processor can 
read or write, just as though the memory 
were an integral part of the system. As the 
information is written in, contents of the 
on-card memory are displayed instantly 
without interrupting the operation of the 
processor. 

Once the processor provides the 
display status parameters, the VDM-1 can 
be made to "scroll" its display upwards or 
downwards. A built-in timer allows scrolling 
at about 4 lines per second, eliminating 
complicated timing program routines. 
At top speed, the display scrolls through a 



dump of 65K of memory in two minutes; 
that's about 1000 lines per minute! 

Multiple programmable cursor cir- 
cuitry is built in. All 1024 cursors can be 
displayed at one time or begin anywhere 
in the display. Thus, the VDM-1 can display 
white-on-black or black-on-white — perfect 
for many video gomes! The VDM-1 also 
features EIA Video output for any standard 
video monitor, or a television repair shop 
can easily modify your own TV set. 

The VDM- 1 comes with free terminal 
mode software, designed for teletype 
replacement when used with BASIC or our 
own Resident Assembly system. (Powerful 
text editing software and various game 
packages are also available from Processor 
Technology Corp.) 

Our detailed VDM-1 Owner's Manual 
is available for $4.00, refundable with 
purchase of the VDM- 1 . 

Kit Prices, $1 79 (premium grade, low 
profile IC sockets included). 



naon Principle. 

IMSAI system-with innovative, excellent quality 
[At most agreeable prices, too!] 



■WW*': lih UiUll^ \;l si p ht ^ if if ; li; i§ If ; 1 *flU p " 
1 . **: | i:| B:| «ll &:| "»,| lj|. I;| i:|; lijji *l|:*l|:™; j If: 1 1:} 1 ,;*& ^ 


\ 






f\B!fiAil:»i|;.(i:i^i : iii::S*;iir(i;S:A!J!l!J:i :-.'S» ■ >*£ . *i 

» »,g 5,|, g,g, =.|. .,,£, 5.^. .-*,* ,?,|, »,|, A 


r 




f 1 






I ! :p -:£: =:|: "il: •':!: ;S T 1 ' .~, .^^i.\;, !.:.';';.;■ 


lllll 


Hi 


$ ',$ !^ if» ;S! ;*: ' 




1 




7?M 

m 




JLJ it _ , # 8? * f.j 


! iMUS^ 


i 






WfFTiTTi mm 1 1 irmTm fimm i 1 1 i n mrmiT ■' 





Sharpen your Memory! 



Processor Technology's new and battery connectors ore on the 

8KRA Static Memory Module will odd card.) Also, unlike dynamic memories, 

double-capacity, lower power, and static memories do not require 

greater efficiency to your Altair or periodic refreshing, allowing them to 

IMSAI system. We've actually improved run at the processor's maximum speed. 
on our already popular 4KRA board, The 8KRA occupies any 8K 

by doubling the capacity (8192 segment at 1K intervals within the 



eight-bit bytes!) and lowering the 
power-per-bif. 

The 8KRA uses full speed, low 
power static RAM's — our prime 
supplier is AMD (91 L02A's). These 
RAM's are manufactured to stringent 
military specification, MIL 5TD-883A, 
to insure reliability. The 8KRA uses less 
power-per-bit than any other true 
static memory module — requirements 
so low, that two "D" flashlight cells 
will retain data for 4-5 hours. 
(Recharging circuitry for Ni-Cad cells 

Processor Technology manufactures 
a full line of plug-in modules compatible 
with the Altair and IMSAI minicomputers. 
Write us now— we have a lot to tell you! 



8080 addressing range (for example, 
from 3K to 1 IK, not just 0-8K). Card 
address is selected by a DIP switch, 
located conveniently at the fop of 
the card. Each of the 76 Integrated 
Circuits has its own premium grade, 
low-profile IC socket. We've included 
this special feature to increase 
reliability, and to make assembly, 
testing and repairs many times easier. 

8KRA 8 192- word Static Memory Module $295 (all sockets 
4KRA 4096- word Static Memory Module $154 included) 





technology 

6200-L Hollis Street 
Emeryville, CA 94608 



Part 1 



Xhip" Off the Olde PDP 8/E: 



The Intersil IM6I00 



In part 1, Bob Nelson discussed the attractiveness of a 
PDP-8-like computer, general features of the IM6100 chip, 
the timing and pinouts of the IM6100 and the instruction 
set used by this PDP-8 compatible microcomputer. In the 
second installment, he continues the flow of information 
on this 12 bit microcomputer. 



Robert Nelson 

Chief Engineer 

PCM Inc 

180 Thorup Ln 

San Ramon CA 94583 



When using programmed IO transfers, one 
must live with a delay waiting for the usually 
slow peripheral device to get ready to receive 
or transmit data. Often this requires the CPU 
to traverse a "waiting loop" thousands of 
times between transfers. Interrupt-initiated 
transfers eliminate this wasted time by 
allowing the peripheral device to initiate 
each data transfer, rather than the program. 
Between individual transfers the CPU is free 
to go about its business executing the main 
program. This is accomplished by isolating 
the IO handling routines from the mainline 
program and using the interrupt system to 
ensure that these routines are entered only 
when an IO device-ready flag is set, indi- 
cating that the device is actually ready to 
perform the next data transfer. 

The interrupt system allows certain exter- 
nal conditions to interrupt the computer 
program by driving the INTREQ line (pin 8) 
to the IM6100low. If no higher priority 
requests (such as a DMA request, or control 
panel interrupt request) are outstanding and 
the interrupt system is enabled, the IM6100 
grants the device interrupt at the end of the 
current instruction. After an interrupt has 
been granted, the interrupt enable flip flop 
in the 6100 is reset so that no more 
interrupts are acknowledged until the inter- 
rupt system is enabled, usually by an instruc- 
tion in the interrupt handling routine. 

When the 61 00 grants an interrupt, it sets 
the INTGNT line (pin 39) to a high level, 



then (so it doesn't lose track of where it was 
in the main program, while servicing the 
interrupt) deposits the current state of the 
program counter in location of main 
memory. This deposited address is known as 
the "return address." Then the 6100 fetches 
an instruction from octal location 0001. 
This is usually a J MP (direct, or indirect as 
required) to the start of the interrupt service 
routine. The last instruction in this routine 
must be an indirect JMP through location 0, 
which returns the CPU to the main program 
at the same point where it left at the time of 
the interrupt. 

The 6100 does not provide, in its hard- 
ware, for nested interrupts (that is, a higher 
priority interrupt of a lower priority inter- 
rupt routine); but, of course, a software 
stack can be programmed which will provide 
for any degree of nesting desired. 

Direct Memory Access 

Interrupt transfers use the interrupt sys- 
tem to service several peripheral devices 
simultaneously, on an intermittent basis, 
permitting computational operations to be 
performed concurrently with the data IO 
operations. Both programmed data transfers 
and interrupt initiated transfers use the 
accumulator as a buffer, or temporary 
storage space, for all data transfers. Since 
data may be transferred only between the 
accumulator and the peripheral, only one 12 



58 





















MD AC MO FLAGS 


1 

o 


O 


o 




O O O 


o o o 


O 


1 

o o 


RUN 
O 

LINK 
O 




O 

LINK 


1 

o 


2 

o 

IRO 




3 4 5 
O O O 
IFF IEFF 


6 7 8 
O O O 

1 — INST FLD— ' 


9 10 II 

O O O — 

L-DATA FLD-I 


IFETCH 
O 

XTA 

o 


















RUN CONT 

Of 19 

HALT SNGL INST 


1 


«r 


Of 




er & <x & & & 


<$ 


1 




(3 

TIMER 


® IS 19 

EXAM DEC LOAD 
PC PC 


19 19 19 

LOAD LOAD BIN 
MEM FLDS BOOT 


T9 

RESET 


XTAL CLK 

<3 

SNGL CLK 
19 



O-LED LAMP <2f- TOGGLE SWITCH ^(-TOGGLE SWITCH ( MOMENTARY ) 



Figure 1: One example of an IM6100 control panel. This panel is designed to perform the 
functions of the PDP-8/E control panel. The actual logic of the control panel is performed in 
software of a control panel service routine contained in a special control panel memory. 
Bootstrap loaders and terminal monitor programs could also be implemented in the same 
fashion, completely transparent to the normal PDP-8/E mode of operation. 



The IM6100 architecture 
has no hardware provisions 
for nested interrupts; how- 
ever, a software stack can 
be implemented if desired. 



bit word at a time may be transferred. Direct 
memory access (DMA), on the other hand, 
transfers variable size blocks of data between 
high speed peripherals and the memory with 
a minimum amount of program control 
required by the IM6100. 

Direct memory access, sometimes also 
called "data break" in DEC literature, is the 
preferred form of data transfer for use with 
high speed storage devices, such as magnetic 
disk or tape units. The DMA mechanism 
transfers data directly between memory and 
peripheral devices. The IM6100 is involved 
only in setting up the transfer; the transfers 
take place with no processor intervention, on 
a cycle stealing basis. This means that main 
program execution will be suspended for an 
integral number of machine cycles while the 
DMA request is serviced. The DMA transfer 
rate is limited only by the speed of the 
memory and the data transfer characteristics 
of the peripheral device. 

The device generates a DMA request 
when it is ready to transfer data, by asserting 
the DMAREQ line, pin 4, low. The IM6100 
grants the request by setting a high level 
output on the DMAGNT line, pin 3, at the 
end of the current instruction. The 6100 
suspends any further instruction fetches 
until the DMAREQ line is returned high. 
The data lines (DX) are put in the high 
impedance state, and all select lines stay 
high. The device which generated the DMA 
request must provide the address and the 



necessary control signals to memory to 
effect the data transfer. 

Control Panel Features 

A unique feature of the IM6100 is its 
provision for control panel interrupts. Due 
to the limited number of pins available, a 
microprocessor requires some sort of soft- 
ware implementation of its front panel 
controls and indicators. This is necessary 
because one does not have constant, or real 
time, access to the state of the accumulator 
and other internal registers and operations 
being performed inside. This usually requires 
that a portion of main memory be parti- 
tioned off for storage of an interrupt routine 
which updates the state of the front panel 
indicators or performs an operation called 
for by a front panel control. This routine is 
executed whenever a control panel interrupt 
is generated, as, for example, by some 
control switch, or an automatic timer. 

Partitioning off main memory like this is, 
at best, an aesthetic nuisance. In the case of 
a machine that would handle, without modi- 
fication, the software of an existing mini- 
computer, the partitioning becomes more of 
a headache since the interrupt routine may 
sit in some of the same memory space that 
the minicomputer software requires. The 
result may be that the interrupt routine 
could get inadvertently overwritten, or could 
interfere with operation of the mini's 
software. 



59 



Programmed IO transfers a 
word at a time; direct 
memory access 10 sets up 
a special hardwired con- 
troller to take over the 
memory bus for transfer 
of blocks of data without 
CPU intervention. 



In the IM6I00 the software implementa- 
tion of the control panel need not use any 
part of the main memory. The control panel 
communicates with the 6100 through the 
CPREQ line, pin 5. A control panel interrupt 
request is functionally similar to a normal 
device interrupt request, but with some 
important differences. The control panel 
request is granted even if the machine is in 
the HALT state. The CPU is forced into the 
RUN state for the duration of the control 
panel routine, then reverts back to its 
original state at the end of the routine. Once 
a control panel request is granted, the 
1M6100 will not recognize any device inter- 
rupt or DMA request until the control panel 
routine has finished execution. 

When a control panel request is granted, 
at the end of the current instruction, the 
program counter is automatically stored in 
location of a separate control panel 
memory. The 6100 then resumes operation 
at octal location 7777 of this separate 
memory. The control panel memory is 
organized with programmable memory in its 
lower pages and read only memory in the 
higher pages. The control panel service 
routine is stored in the higher pages in the 
non volatile ROM, with a starting address of 
7777. The latter location always contains a 
J MP instruction which starts the actual 
routine at a lower address, for example, 
octal 7400. The programmable memory in 
the lower pages is used as scratchpad space. 

A control panel flip flop (CNTRL FF), 
which is internal to the IM6100, is set when 
a control panel request is granted. As long as 
the control panel flip flop is set, CPSEL (pin 
38) becomes the active select line for 
memory references. This distinguishes the 
control panel memory from main memory. 
However, during the execute phase of in- 
directly addressed AND, TAD, ISZ and DCA 
instructions, the MEMSEL line (pin 37) is 
made active. The instruction is fetched from 
the control panel memory, but the operand 
address for an indirectly addressed AND, 
TAD, ISZ or DCA refers first to the control 
panel memory for a pointer, which in turn 
points to a location in main memory. A 
main memory location may, therefore, be 
examined or changed under front panel 
control by indirectly addressed TAD and 
DCA instructions. Every location in the 
main memory is thereby accessible to the 
control panel routine. 

At the end of the control panel interrupt 
routine is an indirect J MP (through control 
panel memory location 0), which returns 
CPU operation to the main program. A 
return address was deposited in control 
panel memory location at the beginning of 



the control panel service routine, but this 
address may be changed by action of a front 
panel control operating in conjunction with 
a portion of the control panel service 
routine. Thus a "load program counter" 
switch might be interpreted by the control 
panel service routine to copy the state of an 
array of 12 switches (the switch register), 
into control panel memory location 0, which 
sets up the main program to start at the new 
address. The IM6I00 provides for the inclu- 
sion of the switch register on the front 
panel, with a special select line. When aOSR 
instruction (OR the switch register with the 
accumulator contents, and leave the result in 
the accumulator) is executed, the SWSEL 
line (pin 31) goes low at T2. This line allows 
the switch register to directly drive the data 
lines during the "read" portion of the cycle. 
The designer may also make use of the 
control panel features to implement boot- 
strap loaders in the control panel memory, 
so that these routines will not consume main 
memory space. Programs can be loaded by 
indirect DCA instructions: the indirect 
address developed in the control panel 
service routine points to a main memory 
location which is to be loaded. 

Control Panel Example 

It is quite easy to build a front panel for 
the IM6100 that provides nearly every func- 
tion of the PDP-8/E control panel. For the 
would be constructor, one possible layout 
for such a panel is shown in figure I . The 
software routine required to make all these 
controls and indicators work requires less 
than I 28 words of 12 bit ROM. This section 
describes the use of software which 
simulates the PDP-8/E control panel 
functions. 

The program counter display is an array 
of 12 LEDs, segregated into four 3 bit 
(octal) digits. This display shows the current 
slate of the IM6100's internal program 
counter. The program counter can be loaded 
from the switch register by raising the 
LOAD PC switch, and can be decremented 
by raising the DEC PC switch. These opera- 
tions are carried out by the control panel 
service routine software. 

The 12 LEDs just below the program 
counter display are called the display lamps 
and show the data selected by the rotary 
switch to their right. With the rotary switch 
in the MD (memory data) position, these 
LEDs show the content of the memory 
location whose address is indicated by the 
program counter display. With the rotary 
switch in the AC, MQ or FLAGS positions, 
the display lamps show the state of the 6100 
accumulator, MQ register or flag bits, 



60 



respectively. The flag bits displayed are 
indicated below their respective LEDs. These 
include the state of the 6100 Link flip flop 
(LED 0), whether an interrupt is currently 
being requested by an external device (LED 
2), whether interrupts are being inhibited by 
the extended address module (LED 3), 
whether interrupts are enabled by the 6100 
itself (LED 4), and the currently selected 
instruction field and data field, 3 bits each. 

The EXAM switch when raised causes the 
data in the display lamps to be updated, and 
increments the 6100 program counter. This 
makes it possible to examine a series of 
sequential memory locations by loading the 
first address into the program counter with 
the LOAD PC switch. Then each time the 
EXAM switch is raised the address of the 
next memory location is displayed in the 
program counter; and, if the rotary switch is 
in the MD position, the content of that 
location is shown in the display lamps. 

The LOAD MEM switch commands the 
control panel service software to load the 
switch register into the memory location 
indicated by the program counter. The 
LOAD MEM switch also increments the 
program counter after the load, so it is 
unnecessary to load the address for each 
subsequent location. 

The LOAD FLDS switch is used to load 
the desired instruction field and data field 
from switch register bits 6 to 8 and 9 to 1 1 , 
respectively, into the extended memory 
address module. If the rotary switch is in the 
FLAGS position, these new flag bits will be 
shown in the display lamps immediately 
after the load. 

The BIN BOOT switch is used to load a 
binary format paper or magnetic tape (such 
as one produced by the DEC PAL III or 
MACRO-8 assemblers) into main memory. 
The routine for accomplishing this load can 
be written to fit in another 1 28 words of 
control panel service memory. Thus, with 
programming stored in three I K (256 x 4) 
PROMs, one can have a front panel more 
powerful than that on the PDP-8/E itself, 
since the latter does not have a built in 
bootstrapping capability. 

The TIMER switch, when in the "up" 
position, turns on an oscillator which runs at 
about 25 Hz. This oscillator causes a control 
panel interrupt to be generated every 40 ms, 
for the purpose of updating the displays on 
the panel when the machine is running. 

The RUN, LINK, IFETCH and XTA 
lamps show the state of the respective lines 
on the IM6100chip. 

The RUN/HALT, and CONT/SNGL INST 
switches are closely associated. When the 
RUN/HALT switch is in the HALT position, 



the machine is halted. In this state raising 
the CONT/SNGL INST switch will cause the 
machine to execute one (the next) instruc- 
tion and again halt. This provides a very 
convenient single instruction operation 
mode for program debugging. When the 
RUN/HALT switch is put into the run 
position, the machine is enabled to enter the 
RUN mode. It will begin running when the 
CONT/SNGL INST switch is raised. 

The XTAL CLK/SNGL CLK function is 
implemented with a pair of switches. When 
the upper switch is in the XTAL CLK 
position, the CPU runs off the internal 
crystal controlled clock oscillator. When this 
switch is in the SNGL CLK position, the 
machine is in the single clock mode: each 
time the lower switch is raised, a single clock 
pulse is generated. This provides a capability 
to step an instruction through its various 
phases. This capability and the single instruc- 
tion mode described above are made possible 
by the static nature of the registers in the 
IM6100chip. 

Support Devices 

In addition to producing the IM6100, 
Intersil is also offering several other CMOS 
devices intended to support processor and 
computer designs built around the 6100. 
These include a I K x 12 bit mask pro- 
grammed ROM (IM6312), 256 x 1 bit RAMs 
(IM6523/6524), 1 K x 1 bit RAMs 
(IM6508/651 8), a 256 x 4 bit programmable 
random access memory (IM6561), a parallel 
interface element (IM6101), and a UART 
(IM6402/6403). 

The CMOS 1024 word ROM, since it is 
mask programmed, is aimed at volume 
production controller applications, and is 
not well suited to one-of-a-kind hobbyist 
systems. It does have a unique feature 
worthy of mention here, however. In many 
programming applications, it is very con- 
venient to have ROM space and pro- 
grammable memory space interleaved in 
memory, say three pages of ROM followed 
by a page of RAM, for example. The 
IM6312 contains 8 pages (1024 words) of 
memory and any 2 page block may be 
designated, in the mask programming opera- 
tion at manufacture, to be dedicated to 
RAM space. Then when any word in this 2 
page block is addressed, a RAM enable pin 
on the 6312 is activated which turns on 
RAM chips located next to the ROM. These 
RAM chips can share addressing space with 
the ROM, and an additional latch and 
decoder for RAM addressing are eliminated. 
Operation of this kind creates the illusion of 
a programmable area in the read only 
memory region of address space. 



The IM6100 is designed to 
use a software front panel 
driver; provision is made 
for a separate 4 K word 
control panel memory. A 
periodic control panel 
interrupt switches from 
main memory to control 
panel memory and initi- 
ates control panel 
software. 



61 



Interrupt initiated trans- 
fers eliminate timing 
loops. 



The parallel interface element, IM6101, 
provides addressing, interrupt logic and con- 
trol for interfacing the IM6100 to a variety 
of peripherals such as keyboards, UARTs, 
specialized memory, etc. It is designed to 
eliminate a large part of the random logic 
found in many device interfaces. The 6101 
has sense lines that constantly monitor the 
status of the peripheral device to which it is 
interfaced. When the device indicates a ready 
condition, the 6101 generates an interrupt 
to the 6100, which initiates a data transfer. 
Several IM6101 s may be daisy chained to 
form an interrupt priority hierarchy, with 
the highest priority devices at one end and 
the lowest priority devices at the other. 
When the 6101 generates an interrupt to the 
6100, it also provides the address of the 
initial location in the interrupt service 
routine, thus creating a vectored interrupt 
system. The IM6101 also contains several 
other features too lengthy to discuss here; 
the manufacturer's data sheet for the chip 
gives complete details. 

The CMOS UART, IM6402 or IM6403, is 
identical to the PMOS UARTs that have 
been available for some time, except for 
some unique features. First, its CMOS con- 
struction allows it to be clocked as fast as 
3.2 MHz, which is 10 times faster than the 
PMOS units. And of course CMOS con- 
struction means very low power consump- 
tion. Second, the IM6403 version provides 
an on-chip crystal oscillator and divider 
chain for bit rate generation. With a 
commonly available color television crystal 
at 3.5795 MHz, the baud rate becomes 
109.2 Hz, which is just fine for a Teletype 
interface. 

The CMOS RAMs are static devices, but 
are presently too expensive for general pur- 
pose hobby use; the 1 K x 1 bit devices at 
this writing still cost over $8 each. However, 
the day is not far off when they will cost 
compete with N channel RAMs like the 
2102. They are superior to the N channel 
devices, in that they draw only milliamps at 
five volts when operating, and just micro- 
amps when idling. They also contain an 
on-chip address latch, which minimizes the 
necessary interface logic. A nonvolatile pro- 
grammable memory can be constructed 
using a handful of these chips with a small 
on-board Nicad battery to keep them 
powered up when system power is removed. 

Reliable rumor has it that Intersil is 
working on another support chip (or chips), 
that will contain several useful functions. 
The chip will contain all the logic necessary 
to extend the main memory from 4 K to 
32 K words, eliminating nearly all the TTL 
logic now required to implement an 
extended address element module. It will 



also provide DMA port logic, a real time 
clock and a 4 K dynamic RAM interface. It 
may also contain the PDP-8 user flag logic, 
to add time sharing capability to the 
IM6100. 

Conclusion 

When contemplating the construction or 
purchase of a small computer for home 
applications, the amateur computer user 
should very carefully consider the question 
of software availability for the completed 
machine. Computer manufacturers typically 
will tell you that in any new computer 
design, hardware development is only about 
20% of the job. The other 80% of the effort 
is involved in software development. This 
consideration makes the IM6100 ideal for 
the hobbyist, since a lot of the software you 
will need is available from an outside source 
already written, debugged and documented 
over the decade or so in which PDP-8s have 
been available. 

The commercial version of the 6100 
(IM6100C) is well within an individual's 
budget in single quantities. It can be 
purchased from any Intersil distributor. The 
IM6100C has a maximum dock frequency 
of 3.3 MHz (18% slower than the industrial 
version, which costs about $100), and a 
maximum operating temperature of 50°C, 
but in all other respects is identical to the 
more expensive versions. 

The reader interested in building his own 
machine around the IM6100 should contact 
Intersil and request copies of the application 
notes on the chip. These describe typical 
circuitry that can be used to produce a full 
blown minicomputer very similar to the 
PDP-8/E. Given the past history of this 
market place, it should not be long before 
IM6100 based kits are available to ease 
construction of inexpensive PDP-8/E com- 
patible machines." 



More information about 
the particular control 
panel design discussed in 
this article may be 
obtained by writing the 
author at 41 00 A 35th Av, 
Oakland CA 94169 and 
enclosing a self-addressed 
stamped envelope. 



62 




UNBELIEVABLE!!!!! 

The intecolor® 8001 Kit 

A Complete 8 COLOR Intelligent 
CRT Terminal Kit 



$1,395 



"Complete" Means 

• 8080 CPU • 25 Line x 80 Character/Line • 4Kx8 RAM / PROM Software 

• Sockets for UV Erasable PROM • 19" Shadow Mask Color CR Tube 

• RS232 I/O • Sockets for 64 Special Graphics • Selectable Baud Rates to 
9600 Baud • Single Package • 8 Color Monitor • ASCII Set 

• Keyboard • Bell • Manual 

And you also get the Intecolor " 8001 9 Sector Convergence System for 
ease of set up (3-5 minutes) and stability. 
Additional Options Available: 

• Roll • Additional RAM to 32K • 48 Line x 80 Characters/Line • Light Pen 

• Limited Graphics Mode • Background Color • Special Graphics Characters 

• Games 

ISC WILL MAKE A BELIEVER OUT OF YOU. 



Send me (no.) Intecolor" 8001 kits at $1,395 plus $15.00 ship- 
ping charges each. 

Enclosed is my □ cashier s check, D money order, □ personal check* 
□ $350 deposit/kit for COD. shipment for $ 

NAME 

ADDRESS . 

CITY 



STATE.. 



.ZIP_ 



09. 



"Allow 8 weeks clearance on personal checks. 
Delivery 30-60 days ARO 



intelligent Systems Corp. « 76 ^83ESffif®SE?* 3 ° 136 




T 11 TIMt Yog 
OHDERXP SotKfL 

CREATIVE 

CQKIPUTM 

sum! 



Creative Computing 
Magazine 

A bi-monthly 88-page magazine for students, 
hobbyists, and anyone curious about computers. 
Fiction, articles, humor about computers, 
cybernetics, careers, building info., etc. Emphasis 
on games, puzzles, and projects. Contemporary, 
non-technical approach. Subscription. $8.00 pp. 

Games & Puzzles Issue of 
Creative Computing 

88 pages of games and puzzles for pocket 
calculators, computers, and humans. 'Beating the 
Game," "Computer Chess," "Hunting a Wumpus 
in a Cave," building your own computer, reviews of 
24 games, books, and much more! $1.50 pp. 

Futures Issue of Creative Computing 

Artificial Intelligence (Bertram Raphael, Herbert 
Dryfus, etc.), Extraterrestrial Intelligence (Isaac 
Asimov. Martin Harwit, etc.), microprocessors, 
videodiscs as an ultimate computer input device, 4 
new games, and more. 88 big pages! $1.50 pp. 

Artist and Computer 

A high-quality, 4-color book edited by Ruth Leavitt 
which displays the work of 35 internationally- 
known computer artists. Each artist describes his 
or her work in non-technical terms. 140 il- 
lustrations. $4.95. 



TOVKC! 



The Best of Creative Computing 

A 328-page book featuri ng stories by Isaac Asimov 
and others; articles on cybernetics, robots, 
computer crime, privacy; computer games such as 
Star Trek, Rabbit Chase, Magic Square, Madlib, 
and 14 more; super computer graphics; cartoons, 
reviews; poetry; and more! $8.95. 

Creative Computing T-Shirt 

Albert Einstein portrait produced by Blocpix'" 
process. Scarlet trim, black design. Available in 
adult sizes: S, M, L, XL. $4.00 pp. 

Mr. Spock Computer Image 

Big 17x22" computer scanner image. Heavy stock. 
Comes in strong mailing tube. $1.50 pp. 

Star Trek People Computer Images 

Six 8 Vix1 1 computer images on heavy stock of 
Kirk, Spock, McCoy, Scott, Chekov, and Uhura. 
$1.50 pp. 

Star Fleet Technical Manual 

Articles of Federation, Flags, Uniforms, 
Navigational Charts, Schematics of Star Fleet 
equipment, etc. $6.95. 



Please send me the following: 
Item 



Price 



Shipping (books only) $1.00 
All orders outside U.S.A. add $1.00 

Total 



DCash, check, M.O. enclosed 
DCharge my Bankcard (minimum charge $1 5) 
DBankAmericard DMaster Charge 

Acct. No. 



Expiration date. Mo._ 
Name 



_Yr. 



Address 



City _ 
State 



.Zip. 



Creative Computing, P.O. Box 789- M, 
Morristown, N.J. 07960, U.S.A. 



Components and Parts 



Instructions for this type puzzle are 
extremely simple; just take the words from 
the list and fill them into the blocks, one 
letter per block. The number of blocks 
indicate the number of letters in each word. 
Take your time; you may have to do a little 
searching to make all the words fit into the 
puzzle. 

4 Letter Words 

BOLT 

CHIP 

COAX 
3 Letter Words COIL 

FAN CORE 5 Letter Words 

FET DIAL CHOKE 

LED FUSE DIODE 

NUT GATE METER 

PLL KNOB RELAY 

POT LAMP SCREW 

ROM PLUG TIMER 

SCR TUBE TRIAC 

VCO UART ZENER 



Robert Baker 
34 White Pine Dr 
Littleton MA 01460 



6 Letter Words 
FILTER 
MEMORY 
PADDER 
SOCKET 
SWITCH 
TOROID 

7 Letter Words 
BATTERY 
CHOPPER 
CRYSTAL 
DISPLAY 
SPEAKER 
TRIMMER 
VIDICON 





Puzzl 


; Ti 


me, 


page 


84, 


May BYTE 




ANSWER: 


Th 


is i 


s but 


one 


of several 


pos- 


sible 


solutions 


to 


the c 


uzzle 


However, 


the 


sum 


for an 


Y % 


ver 


row or column = 385- 


n = 


601 


3- 




A 
Y 

F 
T 
M 


N S 
B L 

X c 

G W 
R H 


1 

p 



D 

U 


V 

j 

Q 
K 

E 







8 Letter Words 

HEATSINK 

INDUCTOR 

KEYBOARD 

RESISTOR 

RHEOSTAT 

SOLENOID 

TANTALUM 

VARACTOR 



9 Letter Words 

AMPLIFIER 

CAPACITOR 

CONDENSER 

CONNECTOR 

INSULATOR 

PHOTOCELL 

RECTIFIER 

REGULATOR 

THYRISTOR 

10 Letter Words 
ATTENUATOR 
THERMISTOR 
TRANSISTOR 



m 



5 



M 



R O 



mz 



R O C E S S O 




1 1 Letter Words 

TRANSFORMER 
UNIJUNCTION 

12 Letter Words 
ELECTROLYTIC 

13 Letter Words 

POTENTIOMETER 

14 Letter Words 

MICROPROCESSOR 

15 Letter Words 

PHOTOTRANSISTOR 



-Wl 



64 



HELP WANTED 
(A BYTE OPPORTUNITY) 



BYTE needs a person to assist 
with technical editing of articles and 
books. Applicants should have a 
strong background in hardware that 
is evolving toward an understanding 
of software, should be literate and 
capable of constructively criticizing 
manuscripts and composing copy 
when needed, and be willing to 
work hard and meet deadlines con- 
sistently. 

BYTE offers a congenial working 
environment, a lovely small town 
New England location, complete 
medical benefits, profit sharing and 
fun. 

Interested parties should respond 
in writing (do NOT telephone) with 
a complete resume including salary 
requirements. Please enclose a short 
essay giving your reasons for want- 
ing to work for BYTE. We do not 
expect to be able to respond to all 
applications individually but will 
return all resumes if an SASE is 
supplied. Address applications to: 
BYTE, Resumes Editor, 70 Main St, 
Peterborough NH 03458. 



WANTED 



Microprocessors Kit or Assembled 

ALTAIR • SPHERE • MOTOROLA 
INTEL & OTHERS 



Memories, I/O boards, chassis, power 
supplies, modems, peripherals, spe- 
cials, prom programmers, ADCS, 
DACS, GPIOS, RS232 faces, and any 
associated software 



FORWARD INFORMATION AND/OR 

INQUIRIES TO: 

AMERICAN USED MICROPROCESSORS, 

EQUIPMENT & SUPPLY CORP. 

BOX 515, 

PRAIRIEVIEW, ILLINOIS 60069 

TELEPHONE (312) 634-0076 



For complete monthly catalog of 
items available and in stock Enclose 
$10. for six issues. Many new un- 
used items. Amazing values for 
everyone. A-70 



TIRED OF LOADING YOUR 
COMPUTER BY HAND? 

TURN AN AUDIO CASSETTE RECORDER INTO A FAST 
RELIABLE PROGRAM LOADER AND MASS DATA STORAGE 
UNIT WITH THE PerCom CASSETTE INTERFACE FOR 
$59.95 

• Fully assembled and rested 

• BYTE Standard (see Feb 76 BYTE) 

• Load a IK program in 40 seconds 

• May be upgiaded to 218 bytes/sec 

• Store 1O0K byles on C 60 cassette 

• Standaid 8-bil parallel interlace 

• Easily connected to any computer 

■ Little or no software required 

• Provision lor custom interlaces 

• Signal level sensor 

• Sideione circuit 

■ Operate 2 tape units simultaneously 

• Standard sued circuit card 14'/)" * 6V1 

• Described in BYTE (March-April '761 

• Comprehensive Instruction Manual 










TO ORDER Send c 



Per Com - 'peripherals for personal computing' 
Custom Design Services - 4021 Windsor 
Garland, Texas 75042 . (214)' 276 1968 



MICROCOMPUTER 
HARDWARE 

-featuring MITS Altair- 

1: HARD DISC UNITS 

(from 5-8 megabytes to 300 
megabytes) 

2: ALTAIR CONTROLLER 

(For our disk units, or your 
own) 

3: 16K PROM CARDS 

(Ask about our operating 
system on a card) 



THE raMPLJTER 
SYSTEMCENTER 



3330 Piedmont Road 

ATLANTA GA 30305 

404-231-1691 



Lfl 



ompuier 



%p 



Wart 



/ few Mori? Jrnc. 

Authorized dealer for: 

Sphere • IMSAI 

Processor Technology 

National Semiconductor Scamp 

Featuring a complete line of 
technical publications and books 
and a full line of chips and parts 
at MAIL ORDER PRICES. Re- 
pair service for all 8080 and 
6800 microprocessors 

Friendly Service Advice 
Problem Solving 

Open Monday through Saturday 
10-6, Thursday until 9:30 

314 Fifth Avenue 

New York NY 10001 

212 279-1048 



MICROCOMPUTER 
SOFTWARE 

-featuring MITS Altair- 

1: ACCOUNTING 

(General ledger; payroll; re- 
ceivables; payables) 

2: INVENTORY 

(On-line control; point-of-sale 
optional) 

3: WORD PROCESSING 

(Create and edit via video dis- 
play) 



TRE COMPUTER 
SYSTEMCEUTER 



3330 Piedmont Road 

ATLANTA GA 30305 

404-231-1691 



65 



Interact with an ELM 



G H Gable 

419 Jackson St 

Grand Ledge Ml 48837 



The fundamental interface between the 
user and the hardware of a computer system 
is the system software. It runs the gamut 
from a dozen or so bytes of a bootstrap 
loader on a microcomputer to the multi- 
million word operating system of a large 
general purpose computer system. In fact, 
the microcomputer system can be made to 
do much of what the general purpose com- 
puter docs with appropriate versions of 
systems software. One of the most signif- 
icant differences between the big computer 
and the microcomputer is that the large 
computers typically operate on multiple 
bytes of information and often provide 
extended arithmetic and logical operations. 
Minicomputers and microcomputers can 
emulate these extended operations with soft- 
ware; the main difference is speed. The 
typical large computer might execute its 
built in instructions 1 000 times faster than a 
microcomputer's software emulation. How- 
ever, all the features of a large computer 
system can be implemented in the software 
of a microcomputer system. This includes 
assemblers, compilers, text editors, lime- 
sharing and multiprogramming, disk opera- 
ting systems, virtual memory, utilities, and 
of course applications programs. In addition, 
the powerful hardware of a big computer 
can be emulated with software. The prin- 
cipal hardware requirements, other than a 
general purpose instruction set, are access to 
the program counter, an interrupt structure 
and possibly direct memory access by the 
peripheral equipment. Program counter ac- 
cess and interrupt processing is available in 



most microprocessors; direct memory access 
is often implemented by peripheral device 
controllers using the system bus. 

For microcomputers, the system software 
can be divided into two major segments: the 
operating system or monitor and a utility 
library of functions which extend the in- 
struction set. The utility library is a set of 
subroutines written to redefine and expand 
the operations the computer can perform. It 
can range from a simple set of number 
conversion and formatting routines up to the 
complexity of a complete floating point 
mathematical package. 

Monitors 

The monitor program, sometimes called 
the executive program or operating system, 
is the program which the computer executes 
when it is not running some other program. 
The monitor's primary purpose is to decide 
what the system is to do next. Sophisticated 
monitors typically implement disk operating 
systems, time sharing and multi- 
programming. They call loaders, assemblers 
and compilers, handle input and output, and 
process user requests. In short, the monitor 
program is "the brains" of the system. In 
some very large systems, such as the Control 
Data Corporation's CDC-6500, the monitor 
program even has its own processor, separate 
from the central processors. The central 
processors are merely slaves to the monitor 
processor in such a multiprocessor system. 

For a beginning, let's examine a very 
simple monitor program. If you have a 
microcomputer which needs system soft- 



66 



ware, this might be just the ticket to get you 
on the system. This monitor design will let 
you load and execute programs and edit the 
contents of memory. From such a basic 
monitor, more sophisticated software can be 
developed to upgrade the system to what- 
ever level you desire. 

ELM 

Every routine should have a name, espe- 
cially a system routine. Thus I call this the 
Eloquent Little Monitor, or ELM. ELM is 
designed to have a Teletype or a cathode ray 
tube (CRT) terminal such as a TV typewriter 
as its control console. A CRT running at 
1200 baud makes a wonderful control con- 
sole due to the brisk speed at which mes- 
sages are transmitted. ELM implements four 
commands in its simplest version: LOAD 
which will load a program into memory 
beginning at a specified location; LIST 
which lists the content of selected memory 
locations; MODIFY which will modify the 
contents of selected memory locations, and 
GO which starts execution of a program at a 
specified location. My version of ELM fea- 
tures decimal addresses and allows input line 
editing. 

Many processors begin execution at a 
fixed location at power-on or system reset 
Some processors begin execution at a hard- 
ware programmed address which might be 
set by switches. Wherever the processor 
begins its execution, the implementation of 
ELM assumes that ELM will be the program 
which receives control as a matter of course. 
For the purposes of this article, we'll assume 
that ELM is located at the low end of 
memory address space. Following ELM 
comes the first available address (FAA) of 
user programmable memory, then the last 
available address (LAA). This memory or- 
ganization for a typical monitor residing at 
the low end of address space is shown in 
figure 1. Other allocation schemes are of 
course possible. It is also desirable to have 
the monitor in a read only memory so that, 
when the computer is first switched on, the 
CPU will immediately begin execution of the 
monitor. With such a firmware monitor, 
your programs will not be able to destroy 
the monitor program itself. In addition to 
the address space for the monitor, the 
allocation shown in figure 1 includes 80 
bytes of programmable RAM for use as data 
storage. 

Using ELM 

First, let's look at the monitor from the 
user's point of view at the terminal. When 
the system is switched on, the Teletype or 
display will print "OK—". Any time the 





ELM Monitor Program 






(store in ROM or write 






protected memory) 






Line Buffer LB (70 RAM bytes) 




Decimal Multiplier M (2 


bytes) 




Buffer Pointer P (1 


byte) 




Address Parameter P1 (2 


bytes) 




Address Parameter P2 (2 


bytes) 




Accumulator ACC (2 


bytes) 




Parameter Count F (1 


byte) 


FAA- 


— = first available address 

User memory area 




LAA- 


-- = last available address 





Figure I: Memory Allocations for a Typical 
Monitor Program. This map assumes that the 
ELM monitor program resides at the low end 
of memory address space, and that program- 
mable random access memory begins at the 
address of the line buffer. 



monitor is waiting for a command it will 
print the same message. 

If you want to enter a program starting at 
location 123, type "LOAD.123" then a 
carriage return to end the line. The ELM 
program will respond with the message 
"123=" on the next line. ELM now expects 
you to type a string of hexadecimal charac- 
ters grouped two per byte, with a single 
space between each group. See figure 2 for 
examples of this format. You can enter up 
to 22 double character hexadecimal codes 
on a line. The line is terminated with a 
carriage return. After the carriage return, 
these codes are entered into memory begin- 
ning at the address 123 in this example. 
Then the address waiting to be loaded will 
be printed at the beginning of the next line 
so that more hexadecimal codes can be 
entered. This process is repeated until you 
type the word "END" at the beginning of a 
line. After ending the load routine, the last 
loaded address is printed followed by the 
"OK—" message which indicates that ELM is 



67 



UK- Ltttkl, 1 104 




1104- 12 7E SI C3 69 01 63 5A 




1 1 12- 04 SC 54 IE 43-8 




1117- 49 2042 59 54 




ERR0R 




1 1 19- 42 59 54 53 20 £C 




1 12t- END 




LAST ADEPESS LGALEL 1128- 




BK- LIST/ 1 104- 1 128 




11C4- 12 7L 51 03 e9 01 t3 5A 04 50 "S4 


12 48 49 £0 4£ 59 54 45 53 


t l£4« 20 20 5A 00 00 




•XSNKBtlFCY. 1 1 




M0DIFY. 1112 




1112- 04 




1 1 12- 01 




0K- LIST, 1 1 1 1-1 1 13 




1111- 5A CC 50 




0K- G0. 1024---1C4 




HI BYTERS 




^K- 





Figure 2: Sample Printout of an ELM Interactive Sequence. This listing 
shows ELM at work. Note the use of the Teletype back arrow (underscore 
character) to delete mistakes and one instance of a cancelled line. This listing 
illustrates use of ELM to load and execute a simple program which types out 
"HI BYTERS" and returns to ELM. 



back in the command mode again. If the 
starting address is omitted or is less than the 
first available address (FAA) then FAA is 
assumed. 

If you want to list the contents of 
memory locations 123 to 456, the command 
"LI ST, 123-456" will start the listing, print- 
ing 20 hexadecimal codes per line. If the 
address range is omitted, listing begins at the 
first available address (FAA) and continues 
until the last available address (LAA) or an 
end of program mark. Figure 2 illustrates the 
output format of a listing. 

If you want to modify memory contents 
at locations 123 to 130, the command 
"MODIFY, 123-130" will first list the old 
contents of these locations, then it will enter 
the load routine to print "123=" as if you 
were loading these locations. Modified codes 
may then be entered, to be stored beginning 
at 123. 

Finally, if you want to start executing the 
program at location 123, the command 
"GO,123" puts 123 into the program coun- 
ter and begins execution of your program. 
Again, if the address is omitted, execution 
starts at the first available address, FAA. 

It is certainly easy to make typing errors, 
especially for me. Thus I implemented ELM 
with a line buffer and two special line 
editing characters. The underscore (ASCII 
back arrow, hexadecimal 5F) effectively 



removes the preceding character typed, two 
underscores remove the preceding two char- 
acters, etc. The control X character (ASCII 
cancel code, hexadecimal 18) cancels the 
whole line. Several reverse slashes (ASCII, 
hexadecimal 5C) are printed on the can- 
celled line and a line feed is generated as 
shown in figure 2. 

Architecture 

Now that the monitor design is set, let's 
look at the architecture of the program 
needed to implement ELM. Figure 3 shows 
the logic for the whole monitor. After the 
power on restart, "OK—" is printed as the 
ELM input request message, then the system 
idles while waiting for input. Figure 4 shows 
the logic of the subroutine INPUT, which 
reads each character and puts it into the line 
buffer. If the terminal is running in the full 
duplex mode, the character should be 
echoed back to the printer. The buffer 
pointer, P, shows where to put the next 
character in the buffer. The editing char- 
acters are implemented as shown. An ASCII 
carriage return code (hexadecimal 0D) ends 
the input sequence. The test for carriage 
return is done after storing the input 
character since the load routine expects a 
carriage return as an end of line character. 

In figure 3, the parameter decoding and 
error checking logic is shown as a box and an 
error test with a note attached. This logic is 
expanded in more detail in figure 5. The 
parameter decoding logic has a structure that 
enforces a non ambiguous syntax on the 
command line. The command is examined 
by means of a command list. This list is a 
table which is sequentially searched, match- 
ing the command in the buffer with each 
possible command in the table. The result is 
used to determine the proper branch. An 
error message is printed if the command is 
not found in the table. 

The LOAD subroutine is shown in figure 
6. The logic consists of an outer loop for 
each line of input, and an inner loop which 
scans the line, loading memory from left to 
right in ascending address order. The LOAD 
routine checks the syntax for double char- 
acter hexadecimal codes separated by 
blanks. If a syntax error is found, loading 
stops, an error message is printed, and the 
next address to be loaded is printed on the 
next line. A variable number of hexadecimal 
codes from 1 to 22 may be entered on each 
line. The initial address (P1) is incremented 
during the loading routine. 

Note that after loading is completed and 
control returns to the main routine, an end 
of program mark is inserted into memory. In 
my version of ELM, the code for a jump to 



address zero is loaded into the next three 
bytes as an end of program mark. This 
convention allows normal termination of a 
user program by running off the end and 
branching to the starting address of the 
monitor at location 0. 

The LIST routine is shown in figure 7. 
This routine simply prints out the hexa- 
decimal codes found at locations specified 
by the input parameters. This listing is done 
20 bytes per line. Note that LIST stores the 



| ENTER ELM, 
I AT POWER 
I ON OR 

RESTART 
1 

I 



f INPUT J 



' 0; 



( ELM ) 



ELM IS 
WAITING 
FOR INPUT | 

I 



\elm input/ 
Xreouest/ 

--^MESSAGE/ 



CALL 
INPUT 



DECODE 

COMMAND 

LINE 



I SEE DETAIL I 
I OF \--{ 

| FIGURE 5 ! 
I I 



—\ 



I 



TESTS 

COMMAND , 
AGAINST t™ 
TABLE 




O 



ERROR 
\MESSAGE/ 



CALL 
LOAD 



INSERT END 
OF PROGRAM 
MARK 



CALL 
LIST 



CALL 
LIST 



CALL 
LOAD 



I P IS LINE BUFFER | 
__| POINTER. START 
I SCAN AT ZERO 



READ 
\CHARAC- 
\TER / 






STORE 
CHARACTER 
LINE BUFF- 
ER AT P 




I CARRIAGE I 
"j RETURN 

I I 



Figure 4: The Input Subroutine Specified as 
a Flow Chart The main purpose of INPUT is 
to read one line of input, terminated by a 
carriage return. INPUT implements the line 
editing functions of character delete and line 
delete. When the carriage return code is 
detected, the line buffer LB is filled from 
position to position P. 



SET UP 
JUMP TO PI 
ADDRESS 



f END J 

I 

, L , 

1 ENTER 

NEW 
1 PROGRAM 
I I 



Figure 3: I he ELM Program Specified as a 
Flow Chart. The main logic of the Eloquent 
Little Monitor is shown in this diagram. 
Flow begins at the top left and proceeds 
down the diagram. Normal operation of 
ELM involves a closed loop, returning to the 
ELM input request message printed near the 
top of the diagram. If the GO command is 
carried out, execution leaves ELM and pro- 
ceeds to the selected address. 



69 



initial value of parameter PI in the accumu- 
lator ACC during its operation. Then P1 is 
restored after the listing is completed. This 
allows LOAD to be called after LIST during 
a MODIFY sequence, so that both LOAD 
and LIST reference the same starting 
address. 

In my version of ELM, addresses are 
handled as decimal numbers. This is re- 
flected in the input numeric conversion logic 
(see figure 5) and in the creation of an 
output conversion subroutine: Both LOAD 



and LIST call a subroutine DECIMAL which 
prints the decimal addresses at the beginning 
of lines in messages. DECIMAL simply con- 
verts the first address parameter, PI, into 
five ASCII numeric characters, and prints 
them followed by an ASCII "=" character 
and a blank. I put decimal address conver- 
sion into ELM out of personal preference. 
The decimal conversions may be omitted 
and hexadecimal or octal address parameters 
could also be used. There is already a binary 
to ASCII hexadecimal routine implicit in the 



Figure 5: Parameter De- 
coding Logic Details. Fig- 
ure 3 contains a box 
labelled Decode Command 
Line and a conditional lest 
labelled Errors, with a 
note referencing figure 5. 
Fhis figure contains the 
details of the logic needed 
to decode a command line 
into two parameters and a 
command. There are two 
possible exits from this 
logic. An error exit to ter- 
minal (J) occurs if an error 
is detected; an error free 
exit to terminal (2) occurs 
if no errors are detected. 



1 PARAMETER DECODE 

1 LOGIC, DETAIL OF 

FIGURE 3 
I I 



r 



m:= i 
acc: 



NOTE : VARIABLES 
F s FLAG 

M ■ DECIMAL MULTIPLIER 
ACC= DECIMAL VALUE ACCUMULATOR 
Ps LINE POSITION 
LB^LINE BUFFER 
PI ,P2 5 POINTERS 



~1 



ri,r£« rwni 1 



I 



ACOACC + 
M * LB (P)j 



LB(P)> 
LB(P)-'0'i 



[Input | 

numeric i [ 

i conversion f — 

[LOGIC 



ERROR | S~\ 

I BRANCH i ( ' > 

I I S-/ 



EXAMINE 
CHARACTER 
LB (P) 



F : - 2 , 
Pi: -ACC; 




I 1 

I ERROR | 
I BRANCH I 

I I 




©I ERROR-FREE | 
IBRANCH I 

L I 




6 



I ERROR | 
I BRANCH I 

I I 



f: ■ i j 

P2: = ACC; 



^PARAMETERS ARE EXAMINED AND 
DECODED IN REVERSE CHARACTER 
ORDER 



J 



70 



LIST function. For input, the parameter 
decoding routine can be simplified some- 
what by using hexadecimal parameters. 

Expansions 

There are several obvious expansions to 
ELM which should be easy to implement. 
You may even want to incorporate them 
into your own version of ELM right from 
the start. If you have an ASR Teletype (with 
paper tape reader and punch), you may want 
to add the following commands: LOADPT 
and PUNCH. Your Teletype should be able 
to receive the rubout character (ASCII de- 
lete, hexadecimal FF) but not transmit as is 



the normal configuration. LOADPT would 
operate the same way as LOAD except that 
there is no printing needed. The format of 
the tape would be lines of hexadecimal 
codes with a carriage return and two or more 
delete characters at the end of each line. 
You can skip the blanks between bytes to 
save tape if you like. When the processor 
sees the carriage return, it begins loading 
memory from the line buffer. The two 
delete characters give the computer time to 
load the line, so that by the time the next 
real character comes along the computer is 
ready for it Instead of the word "END" at 
the end of the input, you might want to use 



( LOAD J 



LOAD 
VMESSAGE 



f 



CALL 
INPUT 



'(P+ 



YES 



SKIP TO 



I 



— I 



NEW LINE | 



PRINT 
'CURRENT 
ADDRESS 



(CALL DECIMAL) 



pi-'e^; 


NO 








? yr 






Tyes 






D-'N'^ 


NO 








Tyes 






lb\. 

2)-'D^ 


NO 








? yr 







Q) 



| LOAD 
| ROUTINE 



(return J 



f: ■ o, 
acc: •€>, 



I LB ( P) 
I VALID 
I HEX 
I 




ERROR [ 

.MESSAGE | 
I AND 
^RESTART J 



ACCI- 
ACCaFO.g, 
ACC!" 
ACC|LB(P)i 



MEM(PI) 



PII-PI+I; 

p: ■ p+i , 



I SHL(LB(P),4) 
| MEANS 
ISHIFTLB(P) 

LEFT FOUR L 

BINARY 



BYTE OF 
■i TWO- BYTE 
ACCUMULA- 
TOR IS USED 
IN THIS 
'ROUTINE 



ACOACC8 
0F| 6 ,ACC- 
ACClSHL 
(LB(P),4); 



BLANK MUST BE 
_| SEPARATOR 
I BETWEEN 
HEXADECIMAL 




.J 



| 1 

,■ ILLEGAL I 
_] CHARAC- I 
I TER I 

I I 



BACK FOR I 
MORE I 



Figure 6: The LOAD Sub- 
routine Specified as a 
Flow Chart. The purpose 
of LOAD is to set the 
contents of user program- 
mable memory beginning 
at a location specified by 
the user. The routine con- 
tinues indefinitely until 
the characters "END" be- 
gin a line of input. 



71 



Figure 7: The LIST Sub- 
routine Specified as a 
Flow Chart. The purpose 
of LIST is to dump the 
contents of memory, for- 
matted as ASCII encoded 
hexadecimal digits. The 
dump routine types the 
address first on each line, 
then follows with 20 
groups of two hexadecimal 
digits. 



the ASCII end of tape character (hexa- 
decimal 04). The PUNCH routine would 
operate like LIST, without the addresses. It 
should punch the tape in exactly the same 
format read by LOADPT. If you are not 
using blanks between bytes in the tape 
format, you can get 34 hexadecimal codes 
on a line followed by a carriage return and 
the two delete characters. The last character 
punched might be the end of tape code or 
the END convention, depending upon your 
own preferences. 

If you have a serial tape drive at a 
different IO port, you may want LOADMT 
and SAVEMT commands. These could be 
exactly like LOADPT and PUNCH except 
for the 10 port address. Most tape interfaces 



GD 




\C0NVERT / 
\ MEM / 

\ 1 






\ PRINT / 
\ ASCII / 
\ BLANK / 






pi:= pi+i 
f: • f-i 



L_"ni'i_-':lJ 

(CALL DECIMAL) 



| MEM(PI)TO | 

i ASCII HEX I 

AND PRINT 




( RETURN J 



are set up to use the null code (hexadecimal 
00) instead of the delete code to give blank 
spacing. You may also want to implement 
absolute binary versions of SAVEMT and 
LOADMT to allow higher speed and elim- 
inate conversions. 

Philosophy 

With this article, I've given you enough 
information on the design of a monitor to 
enable you to write the code for your own 
machine. After a few days of coding M-id 
debugging, you should be ready to go to the 
local computer store and have your ROMs 
zapped with a mighty ELM. The whole 
monitor could be put in and initially de- 
bugged via front panel switches; however, 
this is a tedious process at best. Once you 
have ELM installed, you can use this tool to 
help build software and programs on your 
own machine to your heart's content. 

Even though ELM is a fairly simple 
monitor as monitors go, it can be further 
simplified and condensed. As mentioned 
before, the decimal conversions can be 
omitted. The syntax checking can be re- 
duced, the printing of addresses at the 
beginning of lines might be omitted, and the 
commands could be reduced to single letter 
codes. None of these simplifications will 
reduce the basic functions of the monitor; 
however, these features add a sharp dimen- 
sion of utility and a touch of class to your 
monitor. 

In many years of designing systems and 
studying human interaction with computers, 
I've found that people (ie: users, be they 
systems engineers or airline ticket clerks) 
think most efficiently in words and decimal 
numbers. Addresses arc a sequential stream of 
numbers and we have all been taught since 
childhood to think of streams of numbers in 
decimal base. Only computer nuts, putting 
on airs, pretend to be able to think in octal 
or hex. Likewise, we communicate with each 
other in words. The computer is capable of 
communicating with us in our own language, 
so let it. An instruction such as LOAD 
STARTING AT 489 is much easier to learn 
and more efficiently used than L,01E9. The 
latter, however, is easier to implement in the 
computer. ELM compromises with 
LOAD, 489; retaining the keyword and the 
decimal address. My basic philosophy is: Let 
the machine do the things it is good at It is 
good at base conversions and word recogni- 
tion. It can convert binary to decimal and 
back again in the twinkling of an eye; we 
can't. Remember, you will probably want to 
use your monitor for a long time; the extra 
effort in its construction will be well worth 
the frustration." 



72 



What's 

New? 




Vector's Done It Again. . . 

Here is another neat little innovation 
from the people at Vector Electronic Com- 
pany, Inc: a screw down terminal post 
intended for prototype applications of 
Vectorboard. It's fairly obvious that the 
model T122 terminal will also find its way 
into kit products, since all one would have 
to do is solder it into an appropriate pad 
hole in a printed circuit board in order to 



The Original 8K Low Power Static Memory Kit 
Still at the Low Price of $ 285. 




■ 



• PLUG DIRECTLY INTO 8800 or 8800 BOARD COMPATIBLE SYSTEM • 
TURNS OFF YOUR WAIT LED (8080 RUNS AT FULL SPEED) • LESS THAN 
520 nS ACCESS AND CYCLE TIME • LOW POWER (LESS THAN 225 mA/1K 
at 5 VOLTSI • 100% NEW INDUSTRIAL COMPONENTS • EASY INTERFACE 
TO HOME BREW • 50/50 GOLD PLATED EDGE CONTACTS • EPOXY BOARD 
WITH PLATED THRU HOLES • 8K or 4K WITH EXPANSION • SOCKET 
PROGRAM 4K or 8K ADDRESS SLOT -DETAILED ASSEMBLY AND THEORY 

8K LOW POWER RAM KIT: 8KLST $285.00 
4K LOW POWER RAM KIT: 4KLST $159.00 
4K EXPANSION FOR 4KLST:4KXST $139.00 



PLUS SHIPPING 



WRITE TO DA VE (K6LKL) at 



ON DISPLAY AT 

BYTE SHOP 

MT. VIEWCA 

MARSH DATA SYSTEMS 

TAMPA FL 



P.O. Box 9160, 
Stockton CA 95208 



•CALIF. RES. ADD SALES TAX 
•MASTER CHARGE - OK 
•BANKAMERICARD - OK 



Where can you find 
a remote controlled 

cassette tape 
transport for under 

$100? 

For Applications In: 

1. Micro Processors 

2. Data recording/logging/storage 

3. Programming 

4. Instrumentation 

5. Industrial Controls 

6. Data duplicating 

7. Security/automatic warning systems 

8. Test applications 

9. Audio Visual/Education 
10. Others 

With Features Of: 

• 4 motor reliability 
Quick head engage 
Completely programmable-Logic 
No tape coasting 
Low power — AC or battery 




PHI-DECK 



The Economy Co., Ill Division 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73125 

The Phi-Deck is the first American-made tape transport with remote 
control capabilities and features including standard and nonstan- 
dard functions — selling for under $100 in quantities of one. 



The Economy Co., Ill Division 
1901 North Walnut 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73105 
(405) 528-8444 Ext. 71 or 79 

D I am interested in application no. 

□ Have Representative call 

□ Send application notes 

Name Title 

Company Name 

Address 

City 



State 



Zip 



Phone Number 



A Perfect 



For the Layman 

For the 
Experienced 

For the 
Professional 



Balance... 

in the World of 
Computers 




A 

MONTHLY 

PUBLICATION 



If you've been 
looking for a 
publication that 
personally addresses you 

That understands the real life 
problems of home computer support 1 

A publication that communicates your 
expression & feelings world wide 

THEN STOP LOOKING - 

YOU'VE JUST FOUND IT. 

INTERFACE — $1.50 per copy at your 
local electronics or computer store — 
if he doesn't have it, tell him to get it 



• Have you been alone as a 
home computerist? 

Have you wanted to learn more 
about home computing? 

• Do you want to buy your equipment 
and parts at group rates? 

• Do you want help in solving your 
computing problems? 

THEN JOIN THE SOUTHERN 
CALIFORNIA COMPUTER SOCIETY 



THE SUPER BENEFIT 



JOIN THE SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA COMPUTER SOCIETY 
AND RECEIVE "INTERFACE" FREE. 



DEAR BYTE READER: 

Our purpose is to support the home computerist. To 
accomplish this we want to reach as far and wide as 
the postal service will allow. It makes no difference 
if you grow potatoes in Idaho, manufacture cars in 
Detroit, chase cows and oil wells in Texas, or simply 
enjoy retirement in Florida. You are invited to 
become a member of SCCS, a reader of INTERFACE 
and a member of that rapidly growing community 
of people who are discovering home computing. 
ARTCHILDS 
Editor - INTERFACE 



MEMBERSHIP FORM 

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA COMPUTER SOCIETY 
P.O. BOX 3123 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90051 



NAME. 



ADDRESS_ 
CITY 



STATE . 



ZIP 



HOME PHONE ( ) - 

BUSINESS PHONE ( ) - 

DUES: S10.00/YEAR PLEASE PRINT PLAINLY 

MAKE CHECK PAYABLE TO: SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA COMPUTER SOCIETY 



obtain considerable flexibility in wiring up 
such household items as burglar alarms, 
thermostat sensors, fire sensors, model rail- 
road layouts, etc, which might be controlled 
by the interfaces of your computer. The 
price for individual users is $1.40 per 
package of 10, $12 per package of 100 
terminals. Contact Vector Electronic Com- 
pany, 12460 Gladstone Av, Sylmar CA 
91342." 



voltage level between 0.6 V and 2.6 V under 
static conditions will be measured and 
flagged as a TTL level error which can be 
read out by pin number in the unit's display. 
Any dynamic (changing) signal which does 
not meet the TTL threshold specification 
will also be flagged (provided its frequency is 
under 10 KHz.) The threshold levels can be 
adjusted by the user if desired. When the 



Short Courses 

Massachusetts Institute of Technology is 
offering two short courses during its summer 
session, courses which might prove useful to 
readers with a professional interest in 
computer science. Scheduled for June 7-18 
is "Mini-Micro Computer Systems: A Close 
Look at Minicomputers/Microcomputers and 
Their Applications to Real World Problems." 
Scheduled for August 16-27 is a course 
entitled "Operating Systems." For detailed 
information, write the Director of the Sum- 
mer Session, MIT, Cambridge MA 02139." 



New Technology Breeds New Test 
and Service Equipment 

The new technology of microcomputers 
brings with it the demand for new and 
improved circuit testing mechanisms. For 
the people who operate microcomputer re- 
pair facilities, this Information Scan Techno- 
logy Scanmaster Logic Tester, Model 5700A, 
may prove a quite useful adjunct to the 
usual scope, digital volt meter and counter 
testing equipment. What this unit accom- 
plishes is a prescan of TTL logic levels on the 
14 or 16 pin circuit being tested. In a repair 
situation, this device can be clipped to each 
TTL IC in turn to automatically (or manu- 
ally) test the logic levels of each pin against 
the TTL specification: Any pin with a 




Scanmaster finds a bad level, it stops its scan 
and displays the number of the erroneous 
pin. Checking can be resumed by pressing an 
appropriate ignore (IGN) button. For de- 
tailed analysis, a logic probe can be used for 
pin by pin tests. The unit is priced at $895 
FOB Santa Clara CA and comes with a 
standard 16 pin test cable and clip. Contact 
Information Scan Technology, 3650 Charles 
St, Santa Clara CA 95050, (408) 988-2789." 



SOLID STATES MUSIC PRODUCTS 

4Kx8 Static Memories 

MB-1 MK-8 board, 1 usee 2102s or equiv- 
alent. 

Kit $112 

MB-2 Altair 8800 compatible, may be 
piggybacked for 8Kx8. 

Kit (1 us 21 02s or equiv.) $112 

Kit (.55us 91 L02As) $132 

Erom Board 

MB-3 1702A's Eroms, Altair 8800 & 
IMSAI 8080 plug compatible, on board 
selection of address & wait cycles, 2K 
may be expanded to 4K. 

Kit 2K (8 1 702A's) $145 

Kit4K (16 1702A's) $225 



I/O Boards 

1/0-1 8 bit parallel input & output ports, 
common address decoding jumper se- 
lected, Altair 8800 plug compatible. 

Kit $42 PC Board only . . . $22 

I/0-2 I/O for 8800, 2 ports committed, 
pads of 3 more, other pads for EROMS 
UART, etc. 
Kit $47 PC Board only . . . $22 

Misc. 

Altair compatible mother board . . . .$40 
32x32 Video board Kit $125 



2102's 


1 usee 


.65usec 


.5usec 


ea 
32 


$1.95 
$59.00 


$2.25 
$68.00 


$2.50 
$76.00 



1702A* 


$10.00 


74C89 


$3.50 


2101 


$ 4.50 


74L89 


$3.50 


2111 


$ 4.50 


74200 


$5.90 


4002-1 


$ 7.50 


74L200 


$5.90 


4002-2 


$ 7.50 


8223 


$3.00 


7489 


$ 2.50 


91L02A 


$2.55 


*Programinc 


send 


32 ea 


$2.40 


hex list 


$ 5.00 


2602 


$ 1.60 



Please send for complete listing of IC's 
Xistors at competitive prices. 



ind 



MIKOS 

419 Portofino Dr. 
San Carlos, Calif. 94070 

Check or money order only. Calif, residents 6% tax. All 
orders postpaid in US. All devices tested prior to sale. 
Money back 30 day Guarantee. $10 min. order. Prices 
subject to change without notice. 



75 



An Introduction to Addressing Methods 



John Zarrella 
90-9 Wakelee Rd 
Waterbury CT 06705 



EFFECTIVE 

ADDRESS 

(LOCATION) 



MEMORY CELLS 



Figure 1: Memory Addresses. The effective 
address is the object of memory address 
calculations. It identifies a location in mem- 
ory address space for the particular cell 
involved in some operation. 



0000 00 




000 00 1 




00001 




00001 1 




0000100 




000 1 1 




000 1 10 




0001 1 1 




000 1 000 




000 1 1 




000 1 1 




000 1 1 1 




001 100 




001 101 




001 110 




• 


^ 


• 


1 — ^■^--— -/ 


• 


■"' 


1 1 1 1 1 1 1 




1 1 1 1 1 1 1 




1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 





MICROPROCESSOR CHIP a SUPPORT LOGIC 
CONTROL UNIT 



SEQUENCING 



ADDRESS 
COMPUTATIONS 



£~ 



INSTRUCTION 
DECODE 



ALU/ 
REGISTERS 



Figure 2: A Typical Sys- 
tem Arrangement. The 
central processor with its 
internal elements defines 
the data bus and an ad- 
dress bus. The address bus 
is used by the memory 
subsystem to decode a par- 
ticular location in the 
memory array which will 
be connected to the data 
bus. 



ADDRE 
BUS 

[memory 
| subsystem 


SS 


l 


DATA 
BUS 

r J 




ADDRESS 
DECODE 








1 






l_ _ 


MEMORY ARRAY 














1 



An address is an identifier which de- 
scribes the location of a particular piece of 
information within a computer's memory 
system. This information, when presented to 
the central processing unit for use in a 
computation, is usually referred to as an 
operand. In all microprocessor systems and 
in most other computer systems, an address 
is a binary number which is decoded to 
reference one computer word of information 
somewhere in the memory subsystem. Fig- 
ure 1 illustrates how unique addresses are 
typically associated with memory cells. 

It is interesting to note that this identifier 
need not be a number. There are some 
experimental computer systems in which 
memory locations are actually referenced by 
name or a combination of a name and a 
numeric index during execution. In these 
systems, there is hardware which translates 
the name directly into the location of an 
appropriate memory cell or group of cells. 

In a similar manner, when writing pro- 
grams in either assembly language or a higher 
level language such as FORTRAN, a pro- 
grammer uses names to reference infor- 
mation. In this case, however, the names are 
generally mapped into numeric addresses by 
the language processing program and are not 
actually implemented in hardware as named 
references. 

Instruction Cycles 

Figure 2 illustrates typical intercon- 
nections among the control unit, arithmetic 
and logic unit (ALU), registers and memory 
subsystems of a general purpose processor. A 
brief review of the typical instruction fetch 
and execute cycle of such a CPU will be 
useful for the discussion which follows. The 
instruction fetch begins when the control 



76 



unit requests the next instruction by trans- 
mitting its address to the memory subsystem 
via the address bus. The current instruction 
address is usually maintained in a register 
called the program counter (or PC), and is 
updated to point to the next instruction 
when the current instruction is completed. 

The information returned is treated as an 
instruction which specifies what function is 
to be performed by the processor. This 
instruction is analyzed in the instruction 
decode section of the processor. The execute 
portion of the instruction cycle then per- 
forms the functions which are specified by 
the decoded instruction. 

Most instructions require data operands 
from the memory subsystem before execu- 
tion can be completed. Thus a memory 
address must be created and sent to mem- 
ory. This address is created using informa- 
tion contained in the decoded instruction in 
conjunction with information contained in 
various registers of the processor. The pro- 
cess of determining a data address is called 
address formation or address computation 
and is performed by the address computa- 
tion section of the central processor. The 
result of address calculation is called an 
effective address. 

A number of address formation capabil- 
ities are provided in the various designs of 
computers which are available. The typical 
contemporary microprocessor only provides 
a portion of the address calculation options 
to be described below. However, each mode, 
when available, can be utilized advantageous- 
ly by the programmer. An understanding of 
addressing modes is useful when evaluating 
the instruction set of a computer. In order 
to clearly define the variety of addressing 
methods, an analogy will be used in the 
following discussion. 

Immediate Addressing 

In many ways memory addressing may be 
likened to the postal system. Imagine that 
you are writing a book on atomic physics 
and that Dr J Smith is to be a consultant. He 
currently lives in a small apartment complex 
called Apple Valley at 15 Grove St. There 
are five apartments at this location, each of 
which has its own street number— from 15 
(manager) to 1 9. The mailboxes are arranged 
as shown in figure 3. 

While researching the book, you attempt 
many of the necessary calculations yourself. 
These calculations involve multiplication, 
addition, transcendental functions and so 
on. Many times in these calculations you use 
fixed numeric factors, such as 18, which 
approximates 2tt^ . In doing this, you are 
treating 18 as a simple integer constant for 
the purposes of the approximation. In com- 



puter addressing terminology, this constant 
might be referenced with what is called 
immediate addressing by simply putting the 
number in a field of the computer instruc- 
tion which follows the operation code. Here 
the effective address of the data is derived 
from the current program counter, and the 
actual instruction contains no addressing 
information. 

Direct Addressing 

Many times when performing calcula- 
tions, you find that the results obtained are 
perplexing and need explanation. Therefore, 
you decide to ask your consultant for help. 
Since Dr Smith does not believe in tele- 
phones, you must send him a note, ad- 
dressed to: 

Dr J Smith 
1 8 Grove St 

In this case, the value of 18 is being used 
as an address. When delivering the letter, the 
mailman uses this address to determine 
where the letter belongs on Grove St. In its 
computer form, addressing with a single 
number such as 1 8 is called direct addressing 
or absolute addressing. In a computer, this 
number forms the address field which fol- 
lows the instruction code in the program. 
This address field contains all the informa- 
tion needed by the memory subsystem in 
order to reference the required information, 
in the same manner that 18 Grove St 
contains all the information needed to locate 
Dr Smith on Grove St. 

Note the contrast of this use of 18 as an 
address with its previous use as a constant. 
The number 18 which follows the instruc- 
tion code is the same in either case; the 
intended use differs according to the instruc- 
tion being executed. To know whether to 
use a number following the instruction code 
as an address or as a constant, its context 
must be known. In the typical computer, 
this is accomplished by building a special set 
of instructions called immediate instructions 
which use the number following the instruc- 
tion code as a constant. A second set of 
instruction codes will be devoted to the 
absolute addressing mode, in which the field 
following the instruction code is an address. 
In general, for each possible addressing 
mode, a set of instructions exists which uses 



Figure 3: The concept of 
a memory address can be 
likened to that of a post 
office address. 



An effective address is the 
goal of address calculation 
techniques. 



The problem of computing 
a result often reduces to 
the problem of organizing 
the reference of operands 
in memory through ad- 
dressing techniques. 



f ' 


V T V 


J \ 


f T\ 


f T \ 


19 


I l8 1 


17 


16 


15 




IsmithI 




JAMES 


JONES 





77 



An absolute or direct ad- 
dress specifies an operand 
location as a fixed number 
embedded in the instruc- 
tion sequence. 



Use of registers for address 
components enables one 
to employ base and index 
address concepts. 



that mode and interprets the information 
following the instruction code according to 
that mode. 

Addressing With Registers 

Suppose that you did not know Dr 
Smith's street address and sent the letter 
anyway. When the letter is received at the 
post office, the postmaster, knowing Dr 
Smith very well, would have to tell the 
postman: "I can't remember Dr Smith's 
address, but he lives in Apple Valley apart- 
ments at 15 Grove St and his mailbox is the 
fourth from the right in front of the 
complex." This specifies Dr Smith's address 
relative to a base address, 1 5 Grove St. In a 
computer, such a base address might typical- 
ly be stored in an index (or general purpose) 
register as shown in figure 4. The displace- 
ment or address modifier in this case would 
be 3, which added to 1 5 gives the actual 
address of 1 8 Grove St. A computer with 
this single register indexed addressing meth- 
od carries out the same form of calculation 
to produce the effective address: It adds the 
displacement or modifier field to the con- 
tents of the index register identified in the 
instruction. 



DECODED INSTRUCTION 



\y////v///A$& 



INDEX OR 



GENERAL PURPOSE 
VlNDEX REGISTER BANK 

\REGISTER 
v ID 




EFFECTIVE 
ADDRESS 



Figure 4: Indexed Addressing. One common 
mode of addressing is called indexed address- 
ing, in which an index register specifies one 
numeric value which is added to an address 
modifier to produce the effective address. If 
the index register contains a base address 
value, then the modifier specifies a displace- 
ment or offset which is added to the base; if 
the index register contains an offset or 
displacement, then the modifier field is 
interpreted as a base address. In either case 
the result is an effective address. 

In the most general case, the index 
register may contain either an actual base 
address such as the first address of a table of 
values, or a displacement value. The cor- 
responding contents of the modifier would 
be a displacement value or a base address, 
respectively. In some presently existing 



microprocessor designs, the index register is 
not large enough to contain a full base 
address. For instance, this occurs if the 
microprocessor uses a 16 bit address space 
and contains only an 8 bit index register. 
This case would require using the index 
register to contain a displacement with the 
base address becoming the instruction's 
modifier field. 

Other options which sometimes occur 
include the choice of a second register as a 
component of effective address generation. 
In such cases, the instruction specifies one 
register which is intended as a base register, 
and a second register which is intended as an 
index register, as shown in figure 5. This 
form of double register addressing is some- 
times combined with a modifier field as 
shown in figure 5. At this time, however, the 
microcomputers commonly available do not 
have such a powerful addressing mode. 

One of the advantages of using a base 
register as well as an index register is that the 
base register can be used to locate a segment 
of memory, while the index register is used 
to access various places in that segment 
according to the program. Since all address- 
ing is specified relative to the base register, 
relocating the program or data being ref- 
erenced can be accomplished without modi- 
fying any code except the instructions which 
load the base register. The example of figure 
6 shows the case of a computer which 
specifies a jump instruction effective address 
as the sum of a base register (register 0) and 
a displacement. Loading the same binary 
code at location 100 or 1125 is possible, 
provided the base register is initialized at the 
start of the program. The problem of reloca- 
tion thus consists of redefining the constant 
which will be loaded into register at the 
start of the program. 

Program Counter Relative Addressing 

Program counter relative addressing is 
very similar to indexed addressing except 
that the base address is implicitly specified 
using the program counter. In a typical 
machine which allows program counter 
relative addressing for data as well as pro- 
gram control purposes, the instruction con- 
tains a modifier relative to the current 
contents of the program counter as shown in 
figure 7. In some microcomputers, such as 
the 6800, program counter relative address- 
ing is only allowed for branch instructions, 
and is specified relative to the next address 
following the end of the current instruction. 

In terms of the postal analogy, this 
corresponds to the mailman coming upon a 
letter with no street address as he is working 
along his route. He therefore calls the 
postmaster and explains his dilemma. Since 



78 



DECODED INSTRUCTION 



BASE OR 

GENERAL PURPOSE 

REGISTER BANK 



I T t * 1 T 1 



INDEX OR 
GENERAL PURPOSE 
REGISTER BANK 




Figure 5: Combining Two Index Registers. 
A more general address calculation uses one 
register as a base register, a second register as 
an index register, and a modifier. The 
effective address is then the sum of the 
values found in the two registers and the 
value of the modifier. The order of calcula- 
tion and detailed significance of the registers 
depends upon the processor design which 
uses this type of address calculation. 



EFFECTIVE 
ADDRESS 



Figure 6: A base register scheme allows 
convenient relocation of code. In this exam- 
ple, the target address of a I MP (jump) 
instruction is specified as a base address 
register and a displacement. The value of the 
displacement is shown as two words from 
the start of a block of memory in which the 
program resides. With the base register 
loaded lo the starting address, it does not 
matter where the block is located. At (a) it is 
located at octal address 1 00; at (b) the block 
is located at address 1 125. With base ad- 
dressing schemes, the first operation on 
entry to a program or block of code is to 
establish the value in the base register, as 
illustrated in these examples. 



a. 






n 


BASE 
REGISTER 




| 100 


100 


SET REG 0: 


= IO0 




101 






102 




JUMP TO ADDRESS 2 


103 


JMP 0,2 


PLUS REGISTER 


104 






105 






106 






107 







BASE 
t. SAME PROGRAM, RELOCATED RE GISTER O 









y'H ' l25 


1125 


SET RO ; ■ 


1125 




1 126 






1 127 




* 1 JUMP TO ADDR 

1 PLUS REGISTEF 


1 130 


JMP 0,2 


1 131 






1132 






1 133 






1134 







there is only one phone booth on the route, 
the postmaster gives him directions, such as: 
"Walk down the street directly in front of 
you and deliver the letter to the fourth 
mailbox in the apartment complex." Note 
that the base address is implicitly specified 
since the postmaster knows the location of 
the phone booth. 

Indirect Addressing 

To illustrate still another method of 
addressing, assume that Dr Smith recently 
had a post office box, #35. Since then he 
changed his mind and asked to have all his 
mail forwarded to his Grove St address. In 
order to remember the change when mail 
comes lo the old address, the postmaster 
might mark Dr Smith's Grove St address on 
box 35. Then, when the mailman attempts 
lo insert a letter for box 35 into that box, he 
sees the note that tells him to forward the 
letter to 18 Grove St. Thus, the box is not 
Vbe final destination of the letter; in fact, it 
contains only an address to which the letter 
is to be forwarded. We call this method of 
locating the effective address (18 Grove St) 



DECODED INSTRUCTION 
v// // //f /////// A PROGRAM COUNTER 

k\\^Kx\\>\\\\\^ 





T ADDITION 



EFFECTIVE 
ADDRESS 



indirect addressing. Figure 8 illustrates how 
the effective address is used to retrieve a 
second effective address in the computer 
form of indirect addressing. In the simplest 
form of indirect addressing, only one such 
level of indirection is involved. 

We could easily extend this notion to 
multiple levels. In the postal analogy, 
imagine that Dr Smith moves out of 18 
Grove St. The change of address order to the 
post office would result in a note to the 
postman on the 18 Grove St route, giving 
the new address of Dr Smith. Then, if a 



Figure 7: Program Coun- 
ter Relative A ddressing. 
Some computers provide a 
means to address memory 
in terms of an address dis- 
placement relative to the 
current program counter 
value. The instruction con- 
tains the displacement 
which the processor adds 
in the current program 
counter value for this type 
of effective address 
calculation. 



79 



MAIN 
MEMORY 



DECODED INSTRUCTION 

V////////J/////77A 



T& 



FIRST EFFECTIVE 
ADDRESS 



^ 



r 



SECOND (INDIRECT) 
EFFECTIVE ADDRESS 



7 ZZ2EZ* 



Figure 8: Indirect Ad- 
dressing. In this form of 
addressing, the first effec- 
tive address developed is 
used to address memory to 
find a pointer which will 
become the final effective 
address used for the 
instruction. 



EFF 


ECTIVE ADD 
CALCULATIO 


RESS 
N 




START 












addr: = 
modifier ; 
b: = o, 
i: = o, 










X 






r- — i ? 

i INDEX yS . 
SPECIFIED h-< 

! j \ 

1 BASE i y^ 

1 SPECIFIED r-V. ' 


YES 






/ 












i: = INDEX 
REGISTER 
CONTENTS 












X 








/ 














b:= base 

register 

contents 


























ea: = 

ADDR + B+I; 






1 1 

1 INDIRECT | 
] ADDRESS *■' 
1 1 


*v ? ^> 


NO 














addr: = 

MEM (EA); 

b; = o, 








[ END 


) 








EA HAS EFFEC 
ADDRESS 


TIVE 



Figure 9: A General Address Computation 
Algorithm. This flow chart shows a typical 
address calculation algorithm of a modern 
general purpose computer. The typical 
microcomputer design circa early 1976 does 
not employ such a powerful addressing 
algorithm, but future improvements in chip 
designs should yield addressing techniques 
which approach the power of a good general 
purpose computer's addressing. 



letter came to the original post office box 35 
address, the postman would look up the 18 
Grove St address. At the 18 Grove St 
address, the postman would in turn find the 
pointer to a new address for Dr Smith. The 
letter in this case would reach Dr Smith after 
two levels of indirection. This might happen 
a number of times if Dr Smith has a habit of 
frequently moving. In a microprocessor, the 
current chip designs offer only a very limited 
version of this mode, if indirect addressing is 
permitted at all. In minicomputers and large 
scale systems, indirect addressing is often 
allowed to continue to an indefinitely large 
number of levels. 

General Address Evaluation Algorithm 

Indirect addressing is often combined 
with the other addressing modes in com- 
puters which feature the most powerful 
effective address calculations. For instance, 
the indexed addressing mode might be used 
to develop the effective address for the first 
indirect address in a chain of indirect ad- 
dresses. Once the chained indirect address 
lookup is begun, the processor might con- 
tinue through multiple levels of indirection 
until a chain termination condition is de- 
lected. A general address evaluation algo- 
rithm which combines base register, index 
register and the possibility of indirection is 
shown in figure 9. Such an algorithm is 
typical of a good minicomputer, but is only 
partially implemented for most presently 
available microcomputer chip designs. 

Summary 

These methods of addressing are usually 
referred to as the addressing modes of the 
computer. To recap, the typically available 
modes are: 

1. Immediate Addressing, in which 
the data being referenced forms a part 
of the actual instruction. 

2. Direct or Absolute Addressing, in 
which the address of the operand is 
actually given as part of the instruc- 
tion. 

3. Indexed Addressing, in which one 
or more registers are specified, pos- 
sibly including a modifier field. The 
effective address is a sum of the 
contents of the addressing registers 
and the modifier. 

4. PC Relative Addressing, in which 
the program counter acts as a base 
address with an offset specified by the 
instruction. 

5. Indirect Addressing, in which one 
of the other modes develops an effec- 
tive address at which a pointer to data 
will be found." 



80 



What's 

New? 



Lowell Institute School - MIT 

Boston area residents should check out 
the Lowell Institute School, affiliated with 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, an 
evening school with professional instruction 
in areas of modern technology, which now 
includes microprocessors. 

The Lowell Institute School was estab- 
lished at MIT in 1903 to provide instruction 
in technical subjects lor residents of the 
Boston area. Today the School continues 
this tradition by offering subjects in the 
areas of modern technology which are not 
readily available at other evening institu- 
tions. Instruction level is geared to the 
practicing technician who has an associate 
degree or equivalent experience. 

For information, contact: 

Lowell Institute 
MIT Room 5-118 
Cambridge MA 02 1 39 
phone (617) 253-4895 

A new course in the Spring 1976 catalog 
is "Introduction to Microprocessors," with 
hands on lecture and laboratory sessions 
dealing with available microprocessors, pro- 
gramming of ROMs, assemblers, debugging 
aids, interlacing techniques, AD conversion. 
Students design an interface and generate 
software for a device of their own choosing. 

Of Course, of Course. . . 

A firm called Creative Computer, 1901 
Old Middlel'ield Way, Suite 4, Mountain 
View CA 94043, has come out with a 
"complete microcomputer software course 
designed to meet the needs of hardware 
designers who are learning software." Ac- 
cording to the press release, the course 
contains 10 self teaching lessons with addi- 
tional sections on computer architecture, 
operation and software systems. "Through- 
out the course, emphasis is placed on under- 
standing the hardware/software relationships 
that must be considered when designing a 
microprocessor based digital system." The 
course is $49.95 FOB Mountain View, 
distributed in a five part sequence. Delivery 
is quoted 30 days ARO for the first module 
of the sequence. For more information 
phone (415)961-5240." 



FREE! HARDWARE MULTIPLY/DIVIDE 



FREE, one GNAT 8005 Hardware Multiply/Divide Module 
to run on your Altair, Intel MDS or GNAT 8080 Micro- 
processor System. The 8005 operates at 5 Msec, compared to 
250-400 Msec using software multiply/divide. The 8005 
Module is in the GNAT 8080 Microprocessor Series. 

We will award a free 8005 Module for the best func- 
tional, documented applications program using the 8005 
Module. Examples of such programs include new applica- 
tions, or modification of interpreters and compilers to run 
BASIC or Fortran using the 8005 Module. Duplicate prizes 
will be awarded at our discretion, 

Sound fun? It is! To enter, send us a postcard or call and 
request contest details and product information. 

If you don't want to write the program, you can still plug 
the GNAT 8005 Module into your microprocessor system 
and get 5 Msec multiply/divides for only $225. Be sure to 
specify for the Altair, Intel MDS or GNAT 8080 Micro- 
processor System, and include your check for $225 per 
module. We witt also send you a copy of the winning pro- 
gram and the name of the author after the contest ends. 



GNAT computers 



8869 Balboa, UnitC 

San Diego, California 92123 



(714)560-0433 



ALTAIR 8800 

OWNERS 

Is your ALTAIR: 

* Slow to start up . . . 

* Writing all 0's or 1's into memory . . . 

* Producing the wrong STATUS . . . 

* Having troubles running BASIC . . . 

Then your Altair may have CPU Clock problems. 

PARASITIC ENGINEERING now offers 

a permanent fix-kit for the Altair 8800 CPU 
Clock; for only $1 5. 

Send now for our FREE brochure detailing 
what this kit can do for your ALTAIR. 
Better yet, see for yourself. Send for your 
kit TODAY. 

only $15. 

Kit is shipped postpaid anywhere in the 
United States. Kit includes complete 
instructions and all parts necessary to get 
'Cookbook Clock Pulses.' 

PARASITIC ENGINEERING 



PO BOX 6314 



ALBANY CA 94706 



81 



Product Description: 



SCELBAL 



Here is a new product description of the SCELBA L language, supplied by 
its authors, Nat Wadsworth and Mark Arnold of Seel bi Computer Consulting, 
Inc, 1322 Rear-Boston Post Rd, Mil ford CT 06460. Scelbi's philosophy of 
software provides an excellent model of a fully supported product: The firm 
supplies a completely documented package including user level documenta- 
tion, detailed listing and program design information. By providing such 
complete detail, this type of product becomes an excellent package for both 
the novice and advanced programmer. The novice can begin with the user 
level documentation, using the package; the advanced programmer can use 
the detail design information to customize and enhance the package to suit 
personal tastes. . . . CH 



Nat Wadsworth 
Mark Arnold 



The goal of about 90 percent of small 
systems owners appears to be the achieve- 
ment of a system with some form of 10 and 
enough memory to support a high level 
language. In assembling a system with a high 
level language capability there are a number 
of alternative paths. One common approach 
is to purchase a complete system from a 
single source with the high level language 
capability either bundled or as an extra cost 
option. However, when sole source pur- 
chases are made,- there is no room for 
shopping around to find the best buy in 
peripherals, memory, software, etc. The 
alternative of integrating a system from 
subsystem components is attractive when 
hardware prices are totalled up, but where 
can one go to acquire the software needed 
for the custom system? One answer is to 
treat the software as another type of sub- 
system component and seek an independent 
supplier of high level language capability 
appropriate for the custom system. 

When seeking a software package, one of 
the most important criteria is full documen- 
tation of the design at both the user level 
and the systems programming level. A large 
program without a detailed program logic 
description and listing can be likened to a 
complicated electronic device without a 
schematic or logic diagram. This is especially 
so for complicated systems programming 
packages such as interpreters, compilers, 
assemblers, monitors, etc. Installing such a 
program in a custom system virtually re- 
quires modifications of some form to fit the 
hardware details. But attempting to modify 



or enhance a complex program is a risky, 
frustrating and often downright impossible 
task without the detailed documentation. 

SCELBAL — A Higher Level Language 
for 8008/8080 Systems 

Few "canned" programs can be tailored 
to have all the features desired by all the 
possible potential users. To attempt to do so 
would result in programs requiring more 
memory than users could afford. The answer 
to this problem is, of course, to supply 
programs in such a manner that they can be 
readily modified and altered by their own- 
ers. This means, simply, that the detailed 
source listing for the program must be made 
available to the purchaser. Assisting the 
program owner by also providing detailed 
comments with the listing, a general over- 
view of the program's organization and 
operation, and general flow charts can 
further enhance the value of the program to 
the owner. With this information available, 
the program's owner can safely proceed to 
tailor the capabilities of the program to serve 
his or her particular interests and 
requirements. 

This is the approach Scelbi Computer 
Consulting, Inc, has taken in presenting its 
new higher level language for 8008/8080 
machines. The language has been given the 
name SCELBAL for Scientific ELementary 
BAsic Language. As the reader can easily 
surmise from the title, it is similar in 
capabilities to the highly popular BASIC 
language. SCELBAL was specifically 



82 



developed to be able to run on 8008 based 
microcomputers. It is believed to be the first 
such higher level language to be made 
generally available that is capable of running 
in a system equipped with the ubiquitous 
8008 processor. The program can of course 
also be run on systems using the more 
powerful 8080 processor though it is not as 
memory efficient as it could have been if the 
program had forsaken 8008 capability. 

The language was developed to operate in 
an interpretive mode [See Ted Nelson's 
"The Magic of Computer Languages", April 
BYTE, page 24] . This means that the entire 
language processing program resides in mem- 
ory at one time along with the program 
written in the higher level language that is to 
be executed. When the interpreter is given 
the RUN command, it immediately proceeds 
to interpret each line of the higher level 
language program and perform the necessary 
calculations and functions. This differs from 
a compiler which would first convert the 
higher level language source listing to 
machine code, then later execute the 
machine code. 

A compiler oriented high level language 
generally is cumbersome to run on a small 
system that lacks reliable high speed bulk 
memory storage facilities. For instance, if 
the program had been designed as a com- 
piler, the following steps would have been 
necessary in order to execute a higher level 
language program: 

• First one would have to load a text 
editor program into the computer and 
create the desired higher level language 
version of a program as a source 
listing. 

• A copy of the source listing would 
then have to be saved on an external 
memory medium. 

• Next, a portion of the high level 
language system, the actual compiler, 
would have to be loaded into memory. 
When it was resident, one would pro- 
duce the desired machine code version 
of the higher level language statements 
by having the compiler process the 
source listing several times (much as an 
assembler program would process the 
mnemonic listing when programming 
in machine language). The machine 
code produced would have to be 
stored on an external memory device 
at this stage. 

• Finally, the run time portion of the 
high level language system would have 
to be loaded into the computer along 
with the machine code produced by 
the compiler. 



• The higher level language program 
would then finally be ready to run. 

An error in the original source coding for the 
program cannot be detected until run time. 
In that event you would have to go all the 
way back to the text editor program to 
correct the higher level language source 
listing and start the process over again. While 
the compilation process causes no great 
trouble with huge systems and plenty of 
high speed mass storage, it can be incon- 
venient compared to interpreters in small 
systems. 

What's in the SCELBAL Program 

Developing a high level language as an 
interpreter eliminates the requirement for 
the constant use of an external bulk memory 
device in order to get a program from the 
concept to execution stage. An interpreter is 
definitely a much more practical high level 
language concept for the small systems user. 
The entire interpreter program resides in 
memory at one time. An area is set aside in 
memory to hold the higher level program. 
An executive portion of the program allows 
the user to enter the higher level language 
listing directly into the area where it will be 
operated on when the program is executed. 
The executive of the SCELBAL interpreter 
for example provides for the user entering a 
program from a manual input device such as 
a keyboard. Or, if the user desires to run a 
program that has been developed previously, 
a LOAD command will direct the program 
to read in a program from an external bulk 
memory device such as a magnetic tape 
peripheral. 

SCELBAL has been designed so that it 
can operate in a calculator mode or operate 
in a stored program mode. In the calculator 
mode, each statement is executed imme- 
diately after it is entered by the input 
device. In this mode, the program is ideal for 
solving simple formulas when the user only 
needs to obtain a few values. 

When operating in the stored program 
mode, the interpreter will follow an entire 
series of instructions as directed by the 
higher level program. To enter a program 
that will be operated on as a stored program, 
the operator simply assigns a line number at 
the beginning of each statement. 

Executive Commands 

The executive portion of the package 
allows the user to edit a program at any 
time. Lines may be deleted and new lines 
entered anywhere in the program. If the 
operator makes a clerical error while enter- 



83 



ing a line, a special erase code may be used 
to effectively backspace within a line and 
then re-enter the correct characters. Further- 
more, the executive checks for various types 
of syntax errors as statements are entered, 
and will display a two character error code 
to the programmer when such errors are 
detected. 

The executive portion of SCELBAL has 
five major commands available to the oper- 
ator: 

• SCR (for SCRatch) effectively clears 
out any previous program stored in the 
program buffer along with any variable 
values. 

• LIST causes the present contents of 
the program buffer to be displayed for 
review or to make a copy for record 
keeping if a printing device is in use. 

• RUN causes the higher level language 
program stored in the program buffer 
to be executed by the interpreter. 

• SAVE. This command directs the pro- 
gram to save a copy of the program 
stored in the program buffer on the 
user's external bulk storage device. A 
program saved in this manner can later 
be restored for execution by using the 
following command. 

• LOAD. This command causes the pro- 
gram to read in a copy of a program 
from an external device that was pre- 
viously written using the above SAVE 
command. 

SCELBAL Statements 

A higher level language program is made 
up of statements that direct the machine to 
perform selected types of operations. The 
SCELBAL language can execute 12 different 
types of statements. In addition, the END 
statement is used to signify the end of a 
program: 

• The REM (for REMarks) statement 
indicates a comments line which is 
ignored as far as program execution is 
concerned. Information on' a remarks 
line is intended only for the use of 
programmers and is used to document 
a program. 

• The LET statement is used to set a 
variable equal to a numerical value, 
another variable, or an expression. For 
instance the statement: 

LET X = (Y*Y + 2*Y - 5)*(Z + 3) 
would mean that the variable X was to 
be given the value of the expression on 
the right hand side of the equal sign. 

• The IF combined with the THEN 
statement allows the programmer to 
have the program make decisions. 



SCELBAL will allow more than one 
condition to be expressed in the state- 
ment. Thus: 

IF X < = YTHEN LL 
states that if X is less than or equal to 
Y then the program is to go directly to 
line number LL. Otherwise, the pro- 
gram is to continue on to the next 
statement in the program. 

• GOTO directs the program to jump 
immediately to a specified line num- 
ber. The GOTO statement is used to 
skip over a block of instructions in a 
multiple segment or subroutined 
program. 

• The FOR, NEXT and STEP statements 
allow the programmer to form pro- 
gram loops. For example, the series of 
statements: 

FORX = 1 TO 10 
LET Z = X*X + 2*X + 5 
NEXTX 

would result in Z being calculated for 
all the integer values of X from 1 to 
10. While SCELBAL does not require 
the insertion of a STEP statement in a 
FOR - NEXT loop, a STEP value may 
be defined. The implied STEP value is 
always 1 . However, it may be altered 
to be an integer value other than 1 by 
following the FOR range statement by 
the STEP statement and a parenthesis 
containing the STEP size. Thus: 
FORX = 1 TO 10 STEP (2) 
would result in X assuming values of 1, 
3, 5, 7 and 9 as the FOR - NEXT 
loop was traversed. 

• GOSUB is used to direct the program 
to execute a statement or group of 
statements as a subroutine. The state- 
ment is used by designating the line 
number in the program where sub- 
routine execution is to begin. 

• The RETURN statement is used to 
indicate the end of a subroutine. When 
a RETURN statement is encountered, 
the program will return to the next 
statement immediately following the 
GOSUB statement which directed the 
program to the subroutine. SCELBAL 
permits multiple nesting of sub- 
routines in a program. 

• DIM (for DIMension) is used to 
specify the formation of a one dimen- 
sional array in a program. Up to four 
such arrays having a total of up to 64 
entries are permitted in a program 
when running SCELBAL. The 
statement: 

DIM K(20) 
sets up space for an array containing 
20 entries. (Array size must be 



84 



designated by a numerical value, not a 
variable.) The DIM is an optional 
statement that may be left out of the 
program to provide additional program 
storage space in systems having limited 
memory. 

• INPUT is used to cause the program to 
wait for an operator to INPUT infor- 
mation to the program. After the 
information has been received, opera- 
tion of the program automatically 
continues. 

• PRINT is used to output information 
from the program. Using the PRINT 
statement the user may direct the 
program to display the value of vari- 
ables, expressions, or any information 
such as messages. The PRINT state- 
ment allows for multiple mixed output 
on a single line, and the option of 
providing a carriage return and line 
feed after outputting information or 
suppressing that function. For 
instance, the statement: 

PRINT 'X IS EQUAL TO: ';X 
would result in the program first print- 
ing the message "X IS EQUAL TO:" 
and then the value of the variable X on 
the same line. After the value of the 
variable had been displayed, a carriage 
return and line feed combination 
would be issued. To suppress the 
printing of the carriage return and line 
feed the programmer would merely 
include another semicolon at the end 
of the statement. A comma in a 
PRINT statement will direct the out- 
put to start at the next tab point in a 
line. A special function may also be 
called upon to direct the output to 
begin at a specified position in a line 
to allow for neat formatting. 

The power of the language is further 
enhanced by the inclusion of seven functions 
that may be used in statements. The seven 
functions available in SCELBAL arc: 

• INT returns the integer value of the 
expression, variable, or number re- 
quested as the argument. This is the 
greatest integer number less than or 
equal to the argument. 

• SGN returns the sign of the variable, 
number, or expression. If the value is 
greater than zero, the value +1.0 is 
returned. If the value is less than zero, 
the value -1.0 is returned. The value 
is returned when the expression or 
variable is zero. 



• ABS returns the absolute value (un- 
signed magnitude) of the variable or 
expression identified as the argument 
of the function. 

• SQR returns the square root of the 
expression, variable, or number. 

• RND produces a semi pseudo random 
number in the range of to 0.99. This 
function is particularly useful to have 
available for games programs. 

• CHR is the character function. It may 
be used in a PRINT statement and will 
cause the ASCII character cor- 
responding to the decimal value of the 
argument to be displayed. (A reverse 
function is available for the INPUT 
statement which will return the deci- 
mal value of a character when it is 
inputted.) 

• TAB may also be used in a PRINT 
statement to direct the display device 
to space over to the column number 
specified in the argument. This func- 
tion allows the programmer to format 
the output into neat columns. 

SCELBAL Background Information 

User defined variables arc limited to one 
or two characters. A variable must begin 
with a letter of the alphabet. Limiting 
variables to a maximum of two characters 
helps conserve memory space. Up to 20 
different variables may be defined in a single 
program. 

SCELBAL allows the use of fixed and 
floating point notation. A minimum of 23 
binary bits are used in the mantissa portion 
of all calculations allowing for calculations 
with six to seven significant decimal digitsof 
precision. The exponent range is from plus 
to minus the 38th power. Numbers may be 
inputted in either fixed or floating point 
notation. Output from the program is auto- 
matically selected to be either fixed or 
floating point, depending on the size of the 
number that is to be displayed. 

The package, without the optional DIM 
statement, is designed to run in 8 K bytes of 
memory in an 8008 or 8080 system with 
approximately 1250 bytes for program 
storage. With this amount of storage avail- 
able, surprisingly complex programs can be 
executed. The program authors have success- 
fully loaded and run such games as Lunar 
Landing in this configuration by reducing 
the number of messages issued to the player. 

The DIM statement requires approx- 
imately 750 bytes of memory. It is recom- 
mended that users desiring to include the 
DIM capability have more than the mini- 



85 



mum 8 K of memory available in their 
system. A particularly attractive feature of 
SCELBAL is that users with more than 8 K 
of memory can use the additional space for 
program storage. Thus, for example, a 12 K 
system will enable a user to execute 
SCELBAL programs having as many as 150 
to 200 statements. 

A major concern of the developers of 
SCELBAL was that the 8008 processor 
might make the language so slow that it was 
impractical for the user. Our tests indicate 
that the time to perform typical calcula- 
tions, while they are slow compared with 
more powerful machines, are certainly 
tolerable. For instance, the typical response 
time from input to the display of a new set 
of parameters when running the Lunar Land- 
ing game is on the order of six to seven 
seconds. A program that calculates the 
mortgage payments on a house on a monthly 
basis, and displays such values as the pay- 
ment number and balance after each pay- 
ment, requires a few seconds between the 
displaying of each new line of information. 
A dice playing game responds with new 
throws of the dice in the order of a second 
or so when using a formula that includes the 
use of the random number generator. These 
times are by no means fast, but they are 
certainly adequate for the intended uses of 



this language on an 8008 system. The 
developers were pleasantly surprised with 
the overall speed performance of the 
package. Of course, these response times can 
be cut almost in half by using an 8008-1 
processor. Naturally, if the program is in- 
stalled in an 8080 system, the response time 
is improved an order of magnitude. 

The Listing 

Since the program for SCELBAL is sup- 
plied in the form of a publication that 
includes a complete highly commented 
source listing (as well as assembled object 
code for both the 8008 and 8080), the user 
who desires to modify or expand the capa- 
bilities of the basic package will be in a 
position to do so. It is felt that the availabil- 
ity of such a powerful program in this form 
will greatly enhance the general usefulness of 
small systems and open new vistas to users. 
The program in this form should also be of 
considerable value to educators who desire a 
good reference framework from which to 
introduce students to the development of 
similar packages. 

The publication is being made available 
for the first time in June 1976 by the 
developer, Scelbi Computer Consulting, Inc, 
1322 Rear - Boston Post Rd, Milford CT 
06460." 



( Attention: newstand purchasers, borrowers, etc. ) 



DON'T DELAY, 

SUBSCRIBE TODAY! 



YEff 



I'LL BYTE - SIGN ME UP AS A 
£ SUBSCRIBER TO fjljTf 



1 year $12 2 years $22 3 years $30 



No. 



□ Check enclosed □ Bill me Bill □ MC □ BAC Exp. Date 




Name 



Address 










State 



Zip 



86 



Classified Ads Available for 
Individuals and Clubs 

Readers who have equipment, software or other 
items to buy, sell or swap should send in a clearly 
typed or printed notice to that effect. The notices 
are free of charge and will he printed one time only 
on a space available basis. Insertions should be 
limited to no more than 100 words. Notices can be 
accepted from individuals or bona fide computer 
users' clubs only. Commercial advertisers should 
contact Virginia Peschke at BYTE for the latest 
rate card and terms. 



WANTED: Back issues of BYTE magazine to 
include December 1975 issue. Please send informa- 
tion regarding condition and asking price. Bob 
Thomas, 3173 Stephens Av, Ogden UT 84401. 

WANTED TO BUY; JUC Video gard 5" video 
monitor, also EROM boards for IIV1SAI 8080. FOR 
SALE or trade: one IMSAI 22 slot expansion 
board with all sockets, fully functional, $150 or 
trade for above items. Also two MITS dynamic 
RAM 4 K by 8 memory boards, all ICs in sockets. 
Completely tested and functional, $200 each or 
trade for above items. Terry L Todd, Box 319, 
Platteville Wl 53818, (608) 348-4701. 

SAVE MY MARRIAGE! Buy my new assembled 
IMSAI 8080, loaded 22 slot mother board, 8 K 
RAM, regular price, $1835. Will sell to highest 
bidder above $1700. Also IMSAI 8080 kit, still in 
box, large mother board, regular price $578. Will 
sell to the highest bidder above $547. Send bids to 
664 Via Alamo, San Lorenzo CA 94580. 

FOR SALE: 33 ASR Teletype, works perfectly. 
$650. Contact A.J Rudis, (312) 349-9002 after 6 

PM. 

TRADE: I have several 10 inch reels of 1/2 inch 
computer/video tape to trade for the first four 
issues of BYTE. Ed Lindberg, Bowmansville NY 
14026. 

FOR SALE: Altair 8800, 256 words memory, 
manual. Excellent condition, in full working order. 
$500 postpaid. Call: (312) 562-7100, Ext 752, 
between 8:30 & 5:00, or write: Neal Puncochar 
4N725 Klein Rd, W Chicago IL 60185. 

FOR SALE: (One only) Pitney Bowes core 
memory plane with selection diodes. 4 K by 16 
bits, 3 wire. I will include prints. $45 Bruce 
Filgate, Box 284, Maynard MA 01754. Phone 
(617) 481-7400, x6618. 

FOR SALE: Altair 8800 w/2 K memory, fan, P T 
Co 3P+S I/O, moboard, card cage, 16 V trans- 
former, bus terminator. Good working condx. 
$850 value, asking $500 for package. John 
Moorhead, 928 J St, Davis CA 95616. Phone 
MTFSSUN eves (707) 758-2495. 

FOR SALE: Burroughs C-3660 Programmable Cal- 
culator. With memory and magnetic card capa- 
bilities. Very good shape. First check over $700. 
Tom French, 909 Society Av, Albany GA 31701- 

LOOKING for a used or not working minicom- 
puter. Altair, IMSAI, C-MOD or homebrew, parts, 
boards, keyboard, tape drive, or? Price open. Steve 
Kelley, 9506 Peach St, Oakland CA 94603. 



FOR SALE: Redcor RC-70 midi computer kit, 
partially assembled, with 64 K bytes of core 
memory, DMA & interrupt controller cards. 
Capable of FORTRAN and BASIC (available). 
Price $1000. Also have IBM 727 Tape Drives $150 
each FOB, Buster Killion, 2773 Winrock Av, 
Altadena CA 91001, (213) 798-2977. 

FOR SALE: DATAPOINT 3300 ASCII magnetic 
reed keyboard with data. TTL logic, needs +5 V 
and clock for serial data output, with new case, 
base and two screens, $40. UNIVAC 1007 used 
keyboard with base, spare key switches and new 
ASCII ROM, $16. BRPE-9 5 level Teletype Corp 
punch, perfect and working, $20. Junker BRPE-9 
missing chad box, tape holder and punch head, $7. 
Western Union card reader, new in original box and 
packing, no data. Send SASE for more info, $110 
(easily worth $350). All prices negotiable, no 
shipping included. Neil Ferguson, 116 Wood- 
land Cir, Arlington TX 76013, (817) 461-2867. 



A MICRO PRICED PRINTER — 
FOR YOUR MICROCOMPUTER 




O* ^IN- 
COMPLETELY ASSEMBLED AND READY TO RUN 

• 64 CHARACTER ASCII 

• 75 LINES PER MINUTE 

• 40 COLUMN CAPACITY 

• ORDINARY ROLL PAPER, no expensive 
thermal or conductive paper to buy. 

• PARALLEL INTERFACE, easily connected 
to your Altair, Sphere, etc. 

SEND FOR FREE LITERATURE 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 

UTAH RESIDENTS ADD 5% SALES TAX - ALLOW 60 DAYS FOR DELIVERY 

micro peripherals, inc. 

P.O. BOX 22101 / SALT LAKE CITY / UT 84122 



87 




BOOK REVIEWS 



Computer Chess by Monroe Newborn, Aca- 
demic Press, Inc, New York, 1975. $15. 
(Published under the auspices of the Associa- 
tion for Computing Machinery Inc.) 

"My microcomputer swiftly checkmated 
the incredibly big machine," Tom said 
rookingly. 

Impossible? A look at the second ap- 
pendix of Computer Chess shows that sever- 
al of the older US computers and two newer 
foreign ones used to run chess programs had 
less memory than would a fully developed 
personal micro. In the first US championship 
(1 970), a mini using a 4 K program of 1 8 bit 
words (roughly equivalent to 9 K of 8 bit 
words) came in second. Also, the typical 
chess program can be split into three parts 
for opening, middle and end games, with 
only one at a time in the working memory. 

However, combine all the memory you 
can install with this book, and you'll still be 
a long way from the first move. The book 
has several useful flow charts, but no part of 
any program ready to load in any language. 
Nor, it appears, is any complete program 
readily available, but a more thorough 
checking of the many references given might 
turn up one with a full listing. Of the chess 
programs mentioned, it seems that none 
exists in BASIC; but two are in FORTRAN 
IV, one is in ALGOL and one is in PL/1, 
version IV. More are written in assembler 
languages as these are more flexible. But 
assembler language is not as easily translated 
from one machine to another. 

Although this book is not written with 
the computer hobbyist in mind, it is more 
than a pleasant diversion for dilettante 
dreamers. But it will no more teach you how 
to program than it will teach you how to 
play chess well. In 200 pages, how could it? 
It is less likely to encourage your half-vast 
plans than to sober you with the difficulty, 
even enormity, of the task. It has taken 
skilled programmers several months, full 
time, at the least, to write a chess program, 
and about a year more to test, analyze and 
debug it. And if you expect it to play really 
well, at master level, the author predicts the 



need for 15 years (eight more than anyone 
has done to date) of intensive collaboration 
between an excellent programmer and a very 
good player. For all its speed and accuracy, 
the computer is not likely to play better 
chess than its programmer. Today's top 
programs have come a long way, and can 
give the ordinary player a good game. But so 
far, no program is able to improve itself by 
learning from its failures. 

Those failures are in themselves amusing, 
and they are difficult to debug. The book 
describes one chess program which, knowing 
for seven moves that it could win in one or 
two moves, simply did not bother to do so, 
letting the opposing program squirm free 
and win. 

Thirty-eight annotated games, said to be 
all the important ones through the first 
world computer chess championship in 
1974, occupy the bulk of the book. They 
range from mercilessly short to painfully 
long. For many games, the time per move 
and number of possible moves considered at 
each turn is given. A historical chapter 
explains the essential aspects of game theo- 
ry: the mini-max algorithm and the alpha- 
beta algorithm, and Shannon's type A and 
type B strategies. Later, the program 
OSTRICH, developed by the author and 
George Arnold, is described in considerable 
detail. An introductory chapter also states 
the author's conclusions. He sees a new era 
in chess emerging, in which the game or 
challenge will be in programming computers 
to play. 

This reviewer drew other conclusions. 
Although some chess programming has been 
intended to simulate human thinking or help 
understand it better, the way most programs 
play is by considering vast numbers of 
possible moves, something we do not do, 
unless quite subconsciously. As the author 
says, there have been no new fundamental 
breakthroughs in chess programming. If such 
a breakthrough could reduce these vast 
numbers, it would certainly help put the 
micros across the board. Meanwhile, if you 
are not a hotshot programmer, don't rush to 
buy more memory so your micro can start 



88 



woodchopping. Start with a simpler game 
until you can see what an ultimate challenge 
chess seems to be. 

Events move fast in the computer field 
and even chess does not entirely deserve its 
reputation as a slow game. I recently re- 
ceived Volume 4, Number 4, of PCC, with a 
letter from )G Day, 17042 Gunther St, 
Granada Hills CA 91344, on page 27 that 
the September Consumer Bulletin (British 
Computer Society, 29 Portland Place, Lon- 
don WIN 4HU) has a letter from MA 
Bramer, "who mentions that he has a sophis- 
ticated chess program running in BASIC. His 
program embodies a novel pattern-matching 
method requiring no tree-searching what- 
ever." This could be a fundamental break- 
through. 

Then, Andrew Soltis, in his column in the 
March 1 3 New York Post, writes of "a 
chessplaying microcomputer that a Brooklyn 
firm, Cardinal Industries, expects to sell 
within the year for about $120. Considering 
what happened to pocket calculators, we 
might expect a time within the near future 
when anyone can afford an electronic oppo- 
nent." 

The hobbyist starting now may not only 
be outprogrammed by an over-the-counter 
machine before he gets running well, but 
may have his cost undercut by more than 
ten times. How's that for a challenge?" 

John F Sprague 
Allendale NJ 

The Best of Creating Computing - Volume 
1 , David H Ah I (editor), Creative Computing 
Press, Morristown N] 07960; 1976; 8-1/2 x 
I I , 328 pages. Paper $8. 95. 

The Best of Creative Computing — Vol- 
ume I contains articles and fiction about 
computers, games that you can play with 
computers and calculators, hilarious car- 
toons, vivid graphics and comprehensive 
book reviews. 

Authors range from Isaac Asimov to 
Senator John Tunney of California; from 
Marian Goldeen, an eighth grader in Palo 
Alto, to Erik McWilliams of the National 
Science Foundation; and from Dr Sema 
Marks of CUNY to Peter Payack, a small 
press poet. In all, over 170 authors are 
represented in over 200 individual articles, 
learning activities, games, reviews and 
stories. 

This 328 page book has 108 pages of 
articles on computers in education, CAI, 
programming, and the computer impact on 
society; 10 pages of fiction and poetry 
including a fascinating story by Isaac Asimov 
about all the computers on earth linking up 




after a nuclear war to support the few 
remaining survivors; 15 pages of "Foolish- 
ness" including a cartoon piece called "Why 
We're Losing Our War Against Computers"; 
26 pages on "People, Places, and Things" 
including "The Compleat Computer Cata- 
logue" which gives capsule reviews and lists 
sources for all kinds of computer related 
goodies; 79 pages of learning activities, 
problems and puzzles; 29 pages containing 
18 computer games including a fantastic 
extended version of one of the most popular 
computer games: Super Star Trek; and 32 
pages of book and game reviews including 
Steve Gray's review of 34 books on the 
BASIC language. The Best of Creative Com- 
puting — Volume I is currently available by 
mail only for $8.95 plus 1 S( postage from 
Creative Computing Press, PO Box 789-M, 
Morristown Nl 07960." 



COMING ATTRACTION 




See/hi Computer Con- 
sulting, Inc, 1322 Rear 
Boston Post Rd, Mi/ford 
CT 06460, has prepared an 
excellent booh entitled 
Machine Language Pro- 
gramming for the "8008" 
and Similar Microcom- 
puters. We won't go into 
complete detail at this 
point; however, BYTE 
readers will be treated to a 
series of three excerpts 
starting with Chapter I in 
BYTE's July issue.* 



89 



Clubs and Newsletters 




"I nam always t 
tor a magazine 
12 years old. V. 
has kids drawl 
said. This is n 



The New York Amateur Computer Club 

This club, organized by Bob Schwartz, 
meets on the second Thursday of each 
month at Manhattan Community College, 
799 Seventh Av, Room 605, 6 to 9:30 PM. 
From 6 to 7:30 is the time for demos by 
companies and club members, and a trading 
period. At 8 the meeting has speakers on 
topics of interest to the members. In March 
the club considered the new organizational 
by laws and set up committees. In April, 
"we will approve the by laws and get down 
to business." 

Allen Yoricks is conducting a class for 
members who want to study and obtain 
their amateur radio licenses. The aim is to 
use ham radio to communicate with other 
computers in distant parts of the world. In a 
reverse twist, the members of a Brooklyn 
Ham Radio Club want to learn about com- 
puters for the same purpose. They want to 
do computer time sharing across the world 
via a satellite! 

For further information, contact Stanley 
Veit of the Computer Mart, 314 Fifth Av, 
New York NY 1 0001 , (21 2) 279-1 048. 

Anchorage Alaska 

Ronald J Finger, 3417 E 65th Av, An- 
chorage AK 99502, reports an active and 
very informal computer/amateur radio 
fraternity in Anchorage. While he has his 
doubts about whether the rugged indivi- 
dualists who inhabit his city would get 
together to create anything so formal as a 
club, he's agreed to point the way into the 
network of contacts in the Anchorage area. 
His phone number is (907) 344-6503. 

Triad Amateur Computer Society 

The Triad Amateur Computer Society 
meets monthly in the Greensboro and 
Winston-Salem areas of North Carolina. Con- 
tact Doug Drye at (919) 373-0040 in 
Greensboro, or Andy Pitts (919) 765-1277 
in Winston-Salem for details. 



Montreal Club? 

I've been waiting for an announcement 
concerning a Canadian computer user's so- 
ciety. Not having seen any up to now in 
your Clubs and Newsletters section, 1 pro- 
pose that interested persons in Canada con- 
tact me so we can set one up. I would be 
ready to coordinate such an effort. I am an 
electronic engineer and am presently study- 
ing for an MBA at McGill University. I have 
built a CT1 024 TV terminal and am present- 
ly building up a 6501 based microprocessor 
system. 

Leslie Zoltan 
4100 Kindersley St #22 
Montreal, Quebec 
(514) 733-8890 

Rochester NY Club Activities 

Peter Helmers reports on the creation of a 
microcomputer club for the Rochester NY 
area. An interest meeting April 1 at the 
University of Rochester drew 36 persons 
after arrangements were made by an ad hoc 
steering committee. Meetings are to be held 
every four weeks, with newsletter subscrip- 
tion dues set at $2 per year. Affiliation with 
the SCCS is being considered. For further 
information, contact: 

University of Rochester 
Computing Center 
727 Elmwood Av 
Rochester NY 14620 

Att: Microcomputer Club of Rochester 

Long Island Computer Association 

Gerald S Harrison sent in a note about 
the latest activities of the LICA: 

"A word about the club .... Fri- 
day night [ February 20 1976] was our 
first open general meeting at our per- 
manent meeting location. We were 
thrilled at the turnout, approximately 
80 people, many heavily into com- 
puters. Thirty-four of the group work 
with computers, 35 know computer 
languages and at least 20 of the group 
I would rate as professional software 
types. Fifteen members have ma- 
chines, one even brought down an 
IMSAI 8080; it looks great. Motorola 
demonstrated a 6800 and gave a talk 
about it. 

For future reference, meetings will 
be held on the third Friday of the 
month at 8 PM at the New York 
Institute of Technology, Building 500. 
We will endeavor to reschedule meet- 
ings that fall on holidays." 
Along with Gerald's letter came a copy of 



90 



The Stack, Volume Number 0. This is the 
first issue of the LICA's official newsletter, 
edited by Morris Balamut, PO Box 864, 
Jamaica NY 11431. For individuals desiring 
the latest LICA information, call Gerald 
Harrison at (516) 938-6769 (evenings) or 
Ken Kaplan at (516) 781-9859 (7:30 PM to 
3:30 AM). 

Ventura County Club 

Doug Penrod of Santa Barbara CA sent in 
a note mentioning the existence of a new 
club for Ventura County, California, which 
met in Oxnard for the first time January 24. 
Present were Ward Spaniol (president) and 
Art Childs (Interface editor) of the SCCS. 
Forty people were present at the first 
meeting, including ten 8080 users (mostly 
Altairs, one or two IMSAls and some home 
brewers). Many of the people who showed 
up were also amateur radio operators. For 
information on the Ventura County Club, 
contact Eric Strohbehn, 4409 Vineyard, 
Oxnard CA 93030. 

ON LINE 

D H Beetle's ON LINE - Hardware & 
Software Exchange is progressing towards its 
goal as a "buy and sell forum for the 
computer hobbyist." The latest issue re- 
ceived at BYTE was Volume 1, Issue 03, 
with five pages of commercial and non- 
commercial classified advertisements. Sub- 
scriptions are $1 for four issues, $3.75 for 
1 8 issues or $7 for 36 issues (higher rates for 
foreign surface and airmail delivery classes). 
Contact ON LINE, D H Beetle, Publisher, 
24695 Santa Cruz Hwy, Los Gatos CA 
95030. 

MIKE Users Group 

James W Farschon, 3949 Mt Everest Blvd, 
San Diego CA 92111, sent BYTE a small 
sampling of the MIKE 2 INFORMATION 
PACKET Number One which according to 
his form letter contains 60 pages of software 
listings useful to 8008 owners. 

"Our real hope is that his info 
packet will provide the impetus for the 
formation of an active national MIKE 
user organization. Some of my ideas 
on the organization and activities of 
such a group are contained in the 
Preface" of the packet. 
Contributors to the first packet include 
Mark A Condic III, Eric Schott, Jim 
Farschon, Tom Kasper and Jim Tucker. The 
purpose of the MIKE Users Group is dissemi- 
nation of MIKE information to hobbyist 
clubs and publications, publication of 
further INFORMATION PACKETS with 
user contributions, and group projects such 



as system configuration, software develop- 
ment, etc. 

Information in the first information 

packet includes the following titles (partial 

list): 

Theory of 10 Interfaces (Condic) 
CREED Parallel Input Interface (Condic) 
M I KE 2 Hardware Push Pop Stack (Schott) 
Super NIM Game (Farschon) 
Keyboard Monitor Program (Tucker) 
The MIKE 2 INFORMATION PACKET 

Number One is available for $5 from Jim 

Farschon. 

Indianapolis Club? 

Keith A Pieper, 54 Sherry Ln, Browns- 
burg IN 46112, would like to contact 
individuals interested in forming a computer 
club in the Indianapolis IN area. 
New England Computer Society 

The organization of the New England 
Computer Society is settling down onto a 
regular basis. At an executive committee 
meeting March 10, volunteers for editing of 
the society's newsletter were present and 
duly appointed. Editor is Bob Tripp, 8 
Fourth Ln, South Chelmsford MA 01824. 
He can be reached by phone at (617) 
275-8300 (days) or (617) 256-3649 (eve- 
nings). Assistant editors are Calvin Moerrs, 



00 H- 


7? U) 


0" 








O 3 


ID O^ 








00 


^ O 










o a. 


C 










- ro 


o o- 


ON 


H 






efl X) 


01 01 




ro 






- ro 


i-l c 


(-< > 


g 






a 


a. a. 


H- O 






oo a. 


• 


3 H 


H- 






00 Cu 


01 


III 1 


3 






o er 


3 


en h-t 


01 




F 


O H- 

- H* 


p.0 


S p- 


I-" 


1-3 
3- 


efl H* 


H- fD 


h- en 


O 


ro 


" rt 


en 


rt 


3 






*< 


o 


3" 01 


M 


> 


O 


>*] ■ 


Ml O 




*< 


l-h 


00 


c 1 


oi r> 




l-ti 


— 


M XI" 


c o 




O 




en *a 


I-* r- 1 


rt 3 


</> 


n 


R 


1 rt 


O XI 
1 M 


O 


01 


oo m 


rt ro 


en ro 


o 


er 




3 w 


ro H 


n rt 




h- ' 




a. n> 


en t< 


ii rt> 




ro 


■ / .#— «. 


n 


rt 


o 






1 /il 


01 


IV 01 


M rt 


H 


n 


1 / w 


r-» o 


Q. en 


h-| It" 


ro 


w 


■ / ^^ 


>-• o 


en 


h* r-» 


i 


H 




B 


a. a 


3 ro 


S 






o x) 


C B 


0O rt 


p« 


H 


T 


rt 01 


n er 


- v: 


3 


ro 


3- rr 


H- t- 1 


XI 


01 


i 


ID H- 


3 ft 


n ro 


I- 1 


a 




1 (TOO O. 


c 




H- 


u 


•a I'- 


01 > 


H i-l 

to n> 




3 
01 


ll K- 


n 


o x> 


rt 


»-• 




O rt 


j> i-j 


il w 


3- 




R 


n *< 


OO 1 


» 01 






in 


l-H 


n 


3" 


> 


en tu 


■y 


01 (0 


H' 


o 


en (-• 


o n 


3 a 


OO 


H 




O H 


c o 


a. ro 


3* 


1 


N 


i-l o 


i-l 3 


3 




M 


en « 


rt 


en rt 


i 




en 


er fti 


ro 


ro 






S 


C H- 


M S 


en 


er 




h- a. 


1 3 


ro 3- 





v; 


T 


rt H- 


3 en 


n h- 


i- 1 




3- i-l 


1 


rt o 


c 


3 


IT) 


H- 01 


01 3" 


rt 


l-H 




en o 


3 3 


er 


H* 


n 


O 


(D rt 




t- 1 hi 


o 


w 


i 


rt ro 
O X 


ro ro 

01 


3 


o 
i 


01 o 


n 


Q. rt 


9 


H 




1- 3 


oi ro 


01 c 


o 


PI 


■ 


3 


t/1 XI 


rt il 


3 






i-l (T> 


01 rt 


oi ro 


H- 






— O 


C H- 


tfl 


rt 




■ 


O rt 


■-I O 


1 •• 


O 


l-H 




H- 


ro 3 


01 


1 


55 


■ 


O O 


01 


rt o*i 




n 




01 3 


rt t-i 


ro j> 








-a 


ZT r-i 


en 


</> 




■ 


01 rt 


ro ^< 


o 


Ul 






er o 




O 3" 


ro 






r 1 - 


C i-l 


Hi 01 


l^n 






H 0> 


i-" ro 


1 








H- OO 


rt h- ' 


I— 01 






Jmri 


rt O 


H- H- 


i— n 






mW£ 


*< O 


3 Oi 


O rt 






MWo'i 


■ 


01 a" 


ro 






'^^A 




w 



Q) rt H * O H 

ft) fD i-l w 



_k 




• 


T3 


n 


*- 






O 


fO 


1 


ON 


t- 




o 


o 


u> 


o 


w 


1 


^> 


H- ' 


c 


o 


H 


La 


H^ 


H- 


X 


W 


I 


^J 


tfl 

N» 


VO 


§ 


JN 






u 




Ul 




^C 


CO 


M 


(Tn 







-J 


n 




91 



Rockford Research Inc, 140/2 Mt Auburn 
St, Cambridge MA 02138, (617) 876-6776 
and Jeff Siegel, (617) 667-3111, extension 
3195 (days), or (603) 635-7404 (evenings). 
The NECS mailing address is PO Box 198, 
Bedford MA 01730, and meetings are held 
on the first Wednesday of the month at the 
cafeteria, Building C, of the Mitre Corpora- 
tion, Bedford MA (junction of Routes 3 and 
62). 

News of CACHE 

The Volume 1 Number 2 issue of the 
CACHE Newsletter (PO Box 36, Vernon 
Hills I L 60061) described happenings in the 
Chicago area. Technical information in the 
newsletter included a short note about the 
Zilog Z80 "super 8080" chip, a set of 
software notes by Ward Christensen, and a 
"Basic Computer Hobbyist's Library" listing 
with short descriptions of several books. 
Tentatively scheduled future meeting topics 
listed in this issue included: 

May Meeting: Ted Nelson, author of 

Computer Lib/Dream Machines, giving 

a talk. 

June Meeting: Computer Fest —come 

sell/buy /swap equipment and 

information. 

For current information contact CACHE 
at its mailing address or call William T Precht 
at 620-1 671. 

ACGNJ News 

The March issue of the ACGNJ News, 
Volume 2 Number 3, carried a report of the 
February 20 meeting which included demon- 
stration of a Southwest Technical Products 
6800 processor owned by the Union County 
Technical Institute, and a presentation of 
the TV Dazzler peripheral (see "About the 
Cover," page 6) given by Tom Kirk and 
Roger Amidon, using an IMSAI-8080 pro- 
cessor and a color TV monitor loaned by 
Union College. 

The 8080 Sub Group of ACGNJ is 
handled by Dennis Dupre, who can be 
reached at (201) 688-9254. It meets sepa- 
rately to exchange information among own- 
ers of 8080 based systems. 

The address of ACGNJ is: 
Sol Libes, ACGNJ 
Union County Technical Institute 
1776 Raritan Rd 
Scotch Plains N J 07076 
Membership dues are $2. 

Philadelphia Activities 

Richard Moberg, Philadelphia PA, sent in 
two items for this department: 

"I. We are starting a computer society in 



the Philadelphia area for amateurs, 
students, professionals, etc, for the 
purpose of information exchange and 
education in all aspects of computers. 
Interested individuals should contact 
me at 404 S Quince St, Philadelphia 
PA 19147, or call (215) 923-3299 
(evenings). 
"2. I am working on several applications 
of microcomputers in medicine and 
would like to hear from others doing 
the same or with ideas for applica- 
tions. Please contact me at Dept of 
Neurosurgery, Jefferson Medical Col- 
lege, Philadelphia PA 19107, (215) 
829-6744." 

Peoria Activities? 

James Hull, 502 Joliet Rd, Marquette 
Heights IL 61554, is interested in starting a 
club in the Peoria IL area. Interested parties 
should drop him a line. 

News of DACS 

The Volume 1 Number 5 issue of the 
Denver Amateur Computer Society News- 
letter reported on recent activities in that 
city. Scheduled for the March 17 meeting 
was a talk by Dr Robert Suding entitled 
"Comparative Hardware and Software Ana- 
lysis of 8080 versus 6800 versus 6500," with 
a demonstration of all three processors to 
illustrate concepts of program transfer- 
ability. 

The DACS Newsletter also announced the 
activities which will be jointly sponsored by 
DACS and the ARRL at the American Radio 
Relay League's amateur radio convention in 
July. The two concurrent technical sessions 
scheduled for Friday July 16 will have 
microprocessors as the primary theme: 

Introduction to Microprocessors for 
Beginners (Grand and Junior Ball- 
rooms, Hilton Hotel, downtown 
Denver). 

2 PM: Demonstration of Microproces- 

sors in Amateur Radio Applica- 
tions 

3 PM: What is a Microprocessor? 

4 PM: What is so Hard about Hard- 

ware, and is Software Really 
Soft? 
Microprocessor Topics — Advanced (As- 
sembly Rooms 2 and 3, same hotel). 

2 PM: Putting Your Microprocessor to 

Work in Your Amateur Station 

3 PM: Comparative Analysis of Micro- 

processor Architecture 

4 PM: Advanced Software 

The evening session, 7 PM to 1 1 PM in 
Assembly Rooms 2 and 3 of the Hilton, will 
be devoted to further informal discussions of 



92 



microprocessor topics and demonstrations, 
conducted by the speakers at the afternoon 
sessions. 

Early reservations are recommended for 
accommodations. Advanced registration for 
the three day program is $4 until June 30, 
$5 after June 30. Registration forms are 
available from DACS or ARRL. Contact 
DACS at PO Box 6338, Denver CO 80206. 

ARRL Atlantic Division Convention 

The Bicentennial Amateur Radio Con- 
vention of the ARRL Atlantic Division will 
be held July 23-25 1976 at the Ben Franklin 
Hotel in Philadelphia. According to Harry 
Brown, VVA3NGK, one of the coordinators 
of technical sessions at the convention, there 
will be a stress upon digital electronics and 
the use of small processors for amateur radio 
applications. Interested parties should con- 
tact the ARRL for details about the show. 

LUMP is All Together 

The LUMP (Louisville Area Users of 
Microprocessors) computer club has been 
formed in Louisville KY. Anyone interested 
in club activities in the Lousville area is 
invited to attend biweekly meetings. Mem- 
bership circa March 15 1976 was approxi- 
mately 30. Members are working with 6800, 
6502, 8008, 8080, PACE and LSI-11 de- 
signs; at least one 8080 or 8008 multipro- 
cessor system is in the works, and a club 
system is being built using a 6502 chip. 
Contact either of the following individuals 
for further information: 

Steve Roberts, Cybertronics, PO Box 
18065, Louisville KY 4021 8 
Andy Ehalt, 115 Edgemont Dr, New 
Albany IN 47150 

Tampa FL Activities 

Donald A Marsh sends word of the 
Microcomputer Society of Florida which has 
48 members meeting in the vicinity of 
Tampa FL. 

"The club is interested in hardware 
and software of all microcomputers and 
everyone in Florida is invited to join. 
Chapters are being formed in Jackson- 
ville, Miami and Orlando. We have an 
active group of progressive people with 
discussions on microcomputer topics 
presented by specialists in the field." 
For further information, contact Donald at 
5405-B, Southern Comfort Blvd, Tampa FL 
33614. 



Chicago Ham Hackers Take Note 

Robert C Nutting, K9TXS, would like to 
get together with radio amateurs in the 
north and northwest sections of greater 
Chicago IL, persons who are also into 
computers. His address is 6641 Palma Ln, 
Morton Grove I L 60053. 

Northwest Computer Club 

The Northwest Computer Club has mush- 
roomed from a meeting at the house of Bob 
Wallace January 12 into a full fledged club 
which meets at 7 PM the first and third 
Tuesdays of each month, usually at the 
Pacific Science Center. 

NCC Newsletter editor is Bob Wallace. 
Volume 1 Number 1 contained a short 
account of the club's history through its 
March meeting schedule, a list of members' 
names and addresses and interests, and some 
technical comments about graphics stan- 
dards. Also present were several "short and 
sweet" 8080 routines supplied by Bob 
Wallace. 

NCC Newsletter address is PO Box 5304, 
Seattle WA 98105. Club address is North- 
west Computer Club, Pacific Science Center 
Foundation, 200 2nd Av N, Seattle WA 
98109. 

Computer Hobbyist Group — North Texas 

The March issue of the CHG-NT News- 
letter, Volume 2 Number 3, had a lot of 
technical information as part of its seven 
sheets of reduced Xerographic copy. Sum- 
mary of the February 21 meeting reported a 
presentation by John Lawrence on "Micro- 
computer Applications to Amateur Radio." 
John demonstrated two Model 28 Teletype 
machines in interactive operation. Ralph 
Tenny provided an excellent review of the 
MOS Technology Microcomputer Hand- 
books, and Bill Fuller provided some notes 
on "Spiraglyphics" (or the problem of fi- 
guring out what is the obscure significance 
of markings on surplus parts). Bill also 
provided some observations on wiring and 
construction techniques, inspired by John 
Lawrence's impeccable point to point sol- 
dering techniques. Also published was a 
"Universal Code Chart for Data Communica- 
tions" supplied courtesy of Atlantic 
Research Corporation, a manufacturer of 
data communications equipment. 

Mailing address for the CHG-NT is c/o 
Bill Fuller, 2377 Dalworth 157, Grand Prai- 
rie TX 75050. 



93 



Programming Quickies: 



Do you ever spend a spare moment 
creating a little program or subroutine to 
explore some of the possibilities of your 
computer? Write down a symbolic and abso- 
lute listing in the language of your computer 
plus a short paragraph describing the pro- 
gram and its purpose. Then send the result 
to Quickies, BYTE, 70 Main St, Peter- 
borough NH 03458. Each Programming 
Quickie published will earn its originator 
$20 worth of fame and fortune. 



JITTER 



Gordon M Speer 
SATCOMDET Box 9 
FBPO Norfolk VA 23953 



Here is a little blinking lights application 
program which works with Altair 8800A 
hardware. The display is a single bit seen in 
the front panel address lights A8 to A15, 
constantly moving left or right in a random 
walk. The program was written by reader 
Gordon M Speer after he found that one of 
the CPU registers will show up in the address 
lights when delay loops are run on his Altair 
8800. All numbers in this listing are 
octal. . . .CH 



000/000 


006 


020 




JITTER: 


MVI 


B,020 


000/002 


015 






JBDELAY: 


DCR 


C 


000/003 


302 


002 


000 




JNZ 


JBDELAY 


000/006 


025 








DCR 


D 


000/007 


302 


002 


000 




JNZ 


JBDELAY 


000/01 2 


315 


100 


000 




CALL RND 


000/015 


273 








CMP 


E 


000/016 


137 








MOV 


E,A 


000/017 


170 








MOV 


A,B 


000/020 


312 


033 


000 




JZ 


RECYCLE 


000/023 


362 


032 


000 




JP 


ROTATEA 


000/026 


017 








RRC 




000/027 


303 


033 


000 




JMP 


RECYCLE 


000/032 


007 






ROTATEA: 


RLC 




000/033 


107 






RECYCLE: 


MOV 


B,A 


000/034 


173 








MOV 


A,E 


000/035 


346 


XXX 






AN I 


XXX 


000/037 


117 








MOV 


C,A 


000/040 


127 








MOV 


D,A 


000/041 


303 


002 


000 




JMP 


JBDELAY 



Delay loop allows register B 
to show up in Altair 8800 address 
lines A8 to A15; 

Generate random number in A; 

Is A EQ E? 

Move A to E always; 

Move B to A always; 

If A EQ E then continue; 

If a GT E then rotate A left; 

Else rotate A right; 

And continue; 

Rotate A left; 

Set up for next pass; 

Mask to alter delay length; 



RND: This is an 8080 version of the random number generator published in The Computer 
Hobbyist, Volume 1, Number 5, as an 8008 program. 



000/1 00 


041 


146 000 


LXI 


H.000146 


000/103 


016 


010 


MVI 


C.010 


000/105 


176 




MOV 


A,M 


000/106 


007 




RNDLOOP: RLC 




000/107 


007 




RLC 




000/110 


007 




RLC 




000/1 1 1 


256 




XRA 


M 


000/112 


027 




RAL 




000/113 


027 




RAL 




000/114 


055 




DCR 


L 


000/115 


055 




DCR 


L 


000/116 


055 




DCR 


L 


000/117 


176 




MOV 


A,M 


000/1 20 


027 




RAL 




000/121 


167 




MOV 


M,A 


000/122 


054 




INR 


L 


000/123 


176 




MOV 


A,M 


000/1 24 


027 




RAL 




000/125 


167 




MOV 


M,A 


000/126 


054 




INR 


L 


000/127 


176 




MOV 


A,M 


000/130 


027 




RAL 




000/131 


167 




MOV 


M,A 


000/132 


054 




INR 


L 


000/1 33 


176 




MOV 


A,M 


000/1 34 


027 




RAL 




000/135 


167 




MOV 


M,A 


000/136 


016 




DCR 


C 


000/137 


303 


106 000 


JNZ 


RNDLOOP 


000/142 


311 




RET 




000/143 


XXX 


XXX XXX 


xxx Pseudo randoi 



Load H,L with pseudo random code address; 
[Changed from B in original] 



Pseudo random number "seed" (must not be zero). 



94 



What's New? 



Trekking Through Outer Space 

Trek Competition is the name of a 
contest using the Trek 75TM game which is 
being made available via time sharing to 
interested computer hobbyists who have 
standard telephone modem equipment. 
Unfortunately, the press release arrived after 
BYTE's deadline, so the April 1 2-1 6 date of 
the first competition which is sponsored by 
GRW Systems Inc of Mountain View CA is 
of historical interest only. 

Trek 75TM j s a program written by 
William K Char which presents an advanced 
battle simulation game based on the TV 
series "Star Trek." The Trek Competition 
had an entry fee of $5 with the bulk of this 
money (75%) earmarked for prizes. 40% of 
the total entry fees becomes first prize, 25% 
becomes second prize, and 10% becomes the 
third prize. The press release indicated that 
the competition would be repeated at a later 
date. For information send an SASE (self 
addressed, stamped envelope) to: 

Trek Competition 
2580 Westford Way 
Mountain View CA 94040" 



MIKRA-D 16K STATIC RAM 

ALTAIR/IMSAI Plug-in Compatible 

— 16K BYTES of static 500ns. memory for your 
ALTAIR/IMSAI Microcomputer. 

— YOUR processor runs at full speed. 

— PLUGS directly into ALTAIR/IMSAI machine. 

— START with 4K — expand to 16K IN ONE SLOT using 
our expansion kit. . 

— ALLOWS maximum possible 8080 memory (64K bytes) 
in 4 slots. 

— MIL-SPEC tested memory chips use low-power 
technology. 

— MEMORY protect feature. Buffered inputs. 

— SOLVES DMA problem caused by Dynamic memories. 

PRICES 

MD-2046-4 $159.00 MD-2046-12 $395.00 
MD-2046-8 $275.00 MD-2046-16 $495.00 
Expansion Kit $120.00 

AUTOMATIC 1702A PROM PROGRAMMER 

MD-2044 

RS 232 compatible interface. Use with any computer serial 
output. Programs 1702A in 2 minutes. Complete 
self-contained unit. Simple software routine allows you to 
read or program 1702A completely under software control. 

I"™ ™^™^""^ Kit— $149.50 

MIKRA-D | Assembled— $169.50 



INCORPORATED 



Mikra-D«P.O. Box 403-Holliston, Mass. 01746«Tel. 617-881-3111 



I IX $79 95 <§# 

E 

Id 
P 

M 



ALTAIR 8800 AND IMSAI OWNERS I TALK TO 3 CASSETTE MACHINES (THANKS TO I NDE 

PENDENT READ/WRITE) rOR MASS STORAGE. USES THE INDUSTRY STANDARD BI 

PHASE RECORDING METHOD (SEE FEBRUARY '76 BYTE ) . THIS KIT IS 

SMART: Includes its own software and data buffers (512 bytes 

of rom and 512 bytes of ram) so you can get going as soon 

as you connect power. when you order, tell us what 

starting address you'd like for the lk memory ^^ju s ^ 

ere. Parts 
MPATIBILITY 



o9'p 



Vl^yW SLICE AND WE'LL TAKE IT FROM TH 

is kit is V^j[\ BOARD, SOCKETS, AND P L U G- I N COM 

RAM^board (no *NfK| ORt3<3ETTE 



Thi 
a b. 
8 RAM 

buffers just stor-'\ 

age) . Plug-in com- 
patible with JOLT mi- 
crocomputer systems, 
or any others using a 
bi - directional data 
buss scheme. 
This kit is simple, 
inexpensive, and easy 
to build and apply. 
Sockets included for 
all ICs . Connects to 
your system with a 3M 
style, flat cable 40 
pin connector (not 
included with kit) . 



43K. 




a 



CAVE 

v^rafg; 






■ tms808o 

2502 Uart 



$27.95 I 
•3.75 £ 

WE PAY POSTAGE— no C0Ds~Cal res 
add tax. Guarantee: full refund | 
if not satisfied. By the way - 
even a i page ad can't tell youl 
too much, so circle the reader) 
service card, or send us an SASE| 
for full product descriptions. 



"I have. a. tnme.nd.oul> amount 0^ (,un cA.ejrfU.ng 
then. pfiodacXi and I'm happy to be able to 
o^eA them to you." — Geo/tge Uohaous 



COMING 2ND QUARTER-— 16K 

byte ALTAIR 8800 compati- 

^ble memory, for under 1/3 



COM 

k 




What's 

New? 



Photo 1 : This is what the 
ADM-3 "Dumb Terminal" 
from Lear Seigler looks 
like. 




It's $mart to Play Dumb 

The word "dumb" has come into vogue 
lately to describe terminals which incor- 
porate input and output display capability, 
but no microprocessor intelligence (or 
voiced IO). By this definition, a Teletype 
hard copy terminal, or a noiseless soft copy 
"glass Teletype" video terminal provides the 
archetypical example. 

Lear Sicgler Inc provides an excellent 



example of the latter type: a bare bones 
video terminal, with a low price ($995, 
quantity one) and features not usually found 
in products of this price. This product is the 
ADM-3 product, which is illustrated in 
photo 1, with a detail of a sales message 
providing a sample of the text display 
capability in photo 2. One of the most 
interesting aspects of the terminal is that for 
those of us who are into text editing, it has 
an upper and lower case alphanumeric mode 
achieved via a unique shifted 5 by 7 dot 
matrix character generator. Lower case let- 
ters are generally shifted up one row of the 
matrix so that they are roughly centered. As 
can be seen in the example of photo 2, this 
gives a quite readable upper and lower case 
display useful in word processing applica- 
tions. While it is priced a bit high for the 
pure hobbyist, this unit will prove attractive 
to the hobbyist-business set, and to commer- 
cial users of such text displays. Contact Lear 
Siegler Inc, Electronic Instrumentation Divi- 
sion, 714 N Brookhurst St, Anaheim CA, 
(714) 774-1010." 



Photo 2: Here is some text 
displayed on the Lear Sieg- 
ler ADM-3 terminal, illus- 
trating its unique 5 by 7 
dot matrix upper and low- 
er case display mode. 



•U tfct people vli Miffct iir out TERtflfML (tfct AOH-3) *•«•» •* 

l * I* IW5 wit price didn't rail! txptct i lit. Bit tat iidi't 
cewted ii tit 32 nitckM. switckM tut let 1*1 tin tl« BUHB 
1BMNL lite i trettf clever mini. 

Ttte tie 28 aitcles ader tie LSI out putt, #*r exaple. Aaa 
t**» 11 ctaaicitia rtte positive ictUi switches tut let hi select 
***** * r * 132888 te 75. Also » RS232 iiterlice exteosiei pert aitd. 
It iiiws iH te ceiiect tie OUHB TERHINAL to ill kills if clever devices 
to recorders, printers ad starter tortious. Aid sitefces ##r edd-evn 
W"l. Optiom upper ltd lower cise (tie caplttt at •# 128 USASCII 
^WKttrsy^iw t lit are. 



Niagara Frontier ACM 

On June 17 1976, the Niagara Frontier 
Chapter of the Association for Computing 
Machinery will present a dinner meeting. 
BYTE's editor, Carl Helmers, will speak on 
"Doing It Yourself with Computers," an 
introductory talk on- what it takes to design 
and build a microprocessor based general 
purpose computer system along with special 
purpose applications hardware. The talk will 



use electronic music as an application theme 
and will have a short demonstration of the 
concrete results of the hardware and soft- 
ware design it describes. 

The dinner meeting will be held at the 
Wish-ln-Well Restaurant, 8222 Main St, Cla- 
rence NY, at 6 PM. The talk is scheduled to 
begin at 8 PM. Reservations should be made 
by contacting Doug Robinson at (716) 
843-7142." 



96 



f 





BILL GODBOUT ELECTRONICS 
BOX 2355, OAKLAND AIRPORT, CA 94614 



FOR SALE: 



We added more capacity to our 
warehouse. Look at these: 
TANTALUM CAPACITORS 

2.2 uF @ 20V 4/$1.00 

2.7 uF @ 20V '.4/81.00 

3.3 uF @ 15V 4/51.00 

4.7 uf @ 10V 4/$1.00 

22 uF @ 10V 3/51.00 

33 uF @ 10V 3/51.00 

39 uF @ 10V 3/$1.00 

47 uF @ 6V 3/$1.00 

ELECTROLYTIC CAPACITORS 



.3/51.00 
.3/$1.00 
.5/81.00 



.4/51 
.4/81. 
.4/81 
.4/51. 

.1/80. 



10 uF, 250V, axial. . . . 

12 uF, 250V, axial. . . . 

100 uF, 10V, axial. . . . 

100 uF, 35V, PC mount. . 

100 uF, 50V, PC mount. . 

220 uF, 25V, PC mount. . 

250 uF, 25V, axial .... 

2000 uF, 30V, PC mount. 

4000 uF, 20V, MalloryPFP 1/50 

10000 uF, 10V, axial 1/51 

MYLAR CAPACITORS 

Cut and formed for PC inser- 
tion. High-Q and STABLE. 

.0033 uF, 50V 10/81.00 

.005 uF, 25V 10/81.00 

.0068 uF, 50V 10/81.00 

.01 uF, 50V 10/81.00 

.02 uF, 50V 10/81.00 

.033 uF, 50V 10/81.00 

.047 uF, 50V 10/81.00 

.068 uF, 50V 10/81.00 

.1 uF, 50V 10/81.00 

.22 uF, 50V 10/81.00 

1.0 uF, 200V, 107. 3/81.00 

5.0 uF, 100V, 107. 2/81.50 

10 uF, 100V, 107 1/81.50 

DISC CERAMIC CAPACITORS 

Small, low voltage types. Some 
may have leads cut and formed 
for PC insertion. 

10 pF 10/80.45 

220 pF 10/80.45 

.001 uF 10/80.50 

.005 uF 10/50.50 

.01 uF 10/80.50 

.02 uF 10/80.75 

.05 uF 10/81.00 

.1 uF 10/81.25 

POLYSTYRENE CAPACITORS 

Cut and formed for PC inser- 
tion. ACCURATE: 57 or better. 

100 pF 10/51.00 

150 pF 10/81.00 

180 pF 10/81.00 

220 pF 10/81.00 

pF 10/81.00 

pF 10/81.00 

470 pF 10/81.00 

560 pF 10/81.00 

680 pF 10/81.00 

820 pF 10/81.00 

910 pF 10/81.00 

1000 pF 10/81.00 

1200 pF 10/81.00 

1500 pF 10/51.00 

1800 pF 10/51.00 

2000 pF 10/81.00 

2200 pF 10/81.00 

3300 pF 10/51.00 

3900 pF 10/81.00 



WIRE WRAP SOCKETS 

3 level, gold plated: use with 
our Hobbywrap tool, other wire 
wrap tools, or Hire 
14 pin 

pin 

pin 

pin 

pin 

pin 1/81.35 

pin 1/81.75 



270 
390 



16 
18 
24 
28 
36 
40 



Pencil . 
. . .10/83. 
. . .10/83. 

. . ..1/80. 
. .. .1/51. 
.1/81 



RESISTORS 

ue $1.70; 
ue $15.30. 



100 of any ONE val- 

1000 of any ONE val- 

Values available: 



1.0 
1.2 
1.5 
1.8 
2.2 
2.7 



3.3 

3.9 

4.7 

5.6 

6.8 

8.2 

10 

12 

15 

18 

22 

27 

33 



39 1.5K 56K 

47 1.8K 68K 

56 2.2K 82K 

68 2.7K 100K 

82 3.3K 120K 

100 3.9K 150K 

120 4.7K 180K 

150 5.6K 220K 

180 6.8K 270K 

220 8.2K 330K 

270 10K 390K 

330 12K 470K 

390 15K 560K 

470 18K 680K 

560 22K 820K 

680 27K 1.0M 

820 33K 1.2M 

1.0K 39K 1.5M 

1.2K 47K 1.8M 

***** t AVE 

ararTX 

SELECTED SEMICONDUCTORS '"■ 

We stock too many different 

parts to list here our flyer 

tells all, though. 

DIGITAL STUFF 

8093 Quad 3 state buf. 80.63 

8094 Same , but gives hiZ . 80 . 63 

8095 Noninv3st buf $0.63 

8096 Inv 8095 NOR enable .. 80 . 63 

8097 Noninv 4-2 3 st buf . . .$0.63 

8098 Inv 4-2 3 state buf . . 80 . 63 
8131 6 bit buss comp hiZ in $2.50 
8202 10 bit buf register. . .$1.10 I 

8233 2 in 4 bit mux $0.75 

8234 2 in 4 bit mux (inv).. 80. 75 
8242 Quad exclusive NOR. .$0.25 

8250 Binary to Oct decode. $0.55 

8251 BCD to dec decode .... $0 . 55 

8266 2 in 4 bit mux 51.00 

8267 2 in 4 bit mux $1.00 

8270 4 bit shift regis ter . $0 . 98 

8271 4 bit shift register . $0 . 98 
8544 Quad switch debounc . $0 . 90 
8831 Quad 3 state drvr...$2.25 

8833 Quad 3 st trscvr $1.90 

8835 Quad3st trscvr $1.90 

8837 Hex buss drv $1. 85 

DS0026 Dual clock drv.... $3. 00 
DS3608 Hex MOS/TTL cnvrt.$3.00 
LINEARS 

311 minidip comparator ... 81 - 00 

316 hi Z in op amp 82.50 

318 FAST op amp $1 . 00 

339 quad comparator $1.50 

340/5T plastic 5V %A reg $1.75 
(also 6, 8,12, 15, 18, 24V) $1.75 

340/5K metal 5V 1A $1.25 

340/8K metal 8V 1A $1.75 

340/12K metal 12V 1A $1.95 

340/15K metal 15V 1A $1.85 

340/18K metal 18V 1A $1.75 

373 AM/FM/SSB IF/detect. .81-95 
380M minidip 2W power amp $0 . 95 
540 audio power driver.. .$1-95 
565 phase locked loop . . . . $1 . 00 

567 tone decoder PLL 82.50 

725 instrumentation amp.. 

1556M premium op amp 

8038 VCO sine/sq/trl 

LOW POWER SCHOTTKY 
74LS00 Quad 2 in NAND. . . 

74LS04 Hex inverter 

74LS08 Quad 2 in AND. . . . 
74LS10 Triple 3 in NAND. 
74LS20 Dual 4 in NAND... 
74LS42 BCD to dec decode 
74LS138 1 of 8 decode. . . 
74LS168 Dec U/D cntr. . . . 
74LS169 Binary U/D cntr.. 
74LS175 Quad latch 



COMPUTER ORIENTED KITS 

ALL OUR COMPUTER KITS INCLUDE 
INSTRUCTIONS, DOUBLE SIDED PC 
BOARD, QUALITY PARTS ... AND WE 
STAND BEHIND THEM. 

"ECONORAM" 889.95 

4K x 8 RAM board, with buffers, 
onboard regulation, low power, 
high speed, ALTAIR compatible. 

"ECONOROM" 8159 . 95 

4K x 8 EROM board for storing 
software. Buffers, regulation, 
expandable, ALTAIR compatible. 
"8080 SOFTWARE BOARD" .. $159 . 95 
Same as our ECONOROM, but with 
editor / assembler/monitor rou- 
tines pre-programmed. 

"4K x 8 NAKED RAM" $79.95 

No buffers or regulation, just 
cost-effective memory. Compa- 
tible with JOLT systems. 
"CPU POWER SUPPLY KIT".. 844. 95 
Designed to give power to your 
processor. Compatible (same 
size card etc.) with JOLT sys- 
tems. +5V @ 5A, crowbar over- 
voltage protection, +12V (3 %A, 
-12V @ %A, plus negative bias 
supply. Everything except the 
line cord included. 

* A * * * 

MICROPROCESSORS & CHIP SETS 

8008 8 bit CPU 817.50 

8080 Powerful 8 bit CPU $29.95 

PACE 16 bit CPU $125.00 

8008 CHIP SET: 1-8008, 8-2102s 

832.50 

8080 CHIP SET: 1-8080, 8-2102s' 
1-5204 EROM 859.95 



MEMORY INTEGRATED CIRCUITS 



1702A 2K EROM. 

2102 static RAM, 750 ns . 

2112 4x256 RAM 

2501 256 x 1 static RAM. . 

5202 2K EROM 

5203 2K EROM 



PACE CHIP SET #1: PACE IC plus 

all support ICs 8125 . 00 

PACE CHIP SET #2: PACE IC plus 
support ICs, 32-2102, 4-5204, 
and PACE data packet ... 8195 . 00 



^ 



<2> 



\ 



<b 



■\ 



\ 



O 



'<*, 



*Qc 



£% 



95 
95 
95 

00 
95 
95 

5204 4K EROM 817-50 

5600 8 x 32 PROM 82.50 

5610 Open col outputs .... $2 . 95 
7489 64 bit scratch pad.. $2. 23 
93410 bipolar 256 bit RAM .$2.00 



EROM PROGRAMMING SERVICES 

We can program your 5203, 5204, 
or other ROM ICs for $7.50 per 
piece or $35 for 10 pieces . 
Call our 24 hr hot line to re- 
quest hexadecimal coding form. 



REGULATED POWER SUPPLY KITS 

5V, 1A 89.95 

Stable, short proof. Add 2 lbs 
shipping . 

HALF AMP SUPPLY KITS 87.95 

Short proof. Specify 5, 6, 8, 
or 12V. Add 2 lbs shipping. 

±15V SUPPLY 89.95 

150 ma per side. Dual tracking 
regulator. Add 2 lbs shipping. 
EXPERIMENTER'S SUPPLY ... $10 . 95 
Provides dual tracking, vari- 
able, regulated voltages from 
±%V to over ±18V. Add 2 lbs 
shipping. 

12V, 8A SUPPLY KIT $22.50 

New and improved. Current lim- 
its at 13 Amps; also .05V regu- 
lation or better; adjustable 
output 11-14V; RF proof: short 
circuit protected; more. Add 
shipping for 7 lbs . 

^VECTOR! 



Universal Prototype 
Board $19.95 



+1 lb shp 

Here is an uncommitted circuit board 
that plugs right into your 8800. Has Vcc & 
lines already in, provisions for 3 regulators, 
1 heat sink included also. VECTOR is known for 



grid 

and 
high quality products this board is no exception. 




$2 


00 


81 


00 


$4 


50 


SO 


40 


80 


45 


$0 


40 


$0 


40 


$0 


40 


$1 


25 


$1 


40 


$1 


50 


$1 


50 


$1 


38 



HOBBYWRAP TOOL $41.95 

Wire wrapping equipment at the 
right price. You get the tool 

(rechargeable no cords in 

tight places), bit, charger, 
nicads , and instructions . 

PRE-PUNCHED VECTORBOARD. . $8 . 95 

Pre - punched with holes on . 1" 
centers. 8% x 17 inches , 1/16" 
thick epoxy glass base . Add 1 
lb shipping per board. 



VECTOR WIRING PENCIL $9.50 

As reviewed in Radio-Electron- 
ics, Popular Electronics, etc. 
Eliminates cutting and strip- 
ping; makes interconnections 
between parts in 1/3 the time. 
Comes with tool , installed wire 
bobbin, extra wire bobbin, and 
instructions . +llb . shp . 
WIRE PENCIL REPLACEMENT WIRE 
3/ $2 . 40 . Specify color choice : 
red, green , blue , clear . 



TERMS: Add 50<? to orders under $10. Add postage where indica- 
ted; otherwise items are postpaid. Bankameri card®/ Mas ter charge® 
call (415) 357-7007, 24 hours a day. Californians add tax. 
OUR FLYER HAS THE STORY ON LOTS OF OTHER PARTS AND KITS , AS WELL 
AS FLASHY ARTWORK, AN ORDER BLANK YOU CAN CUT OUT AND SEND IN, 
VARIOUS PICTURES, GOBS OF DIFFERENT TYPEFACES, BORDERS, HALFTONE 
ARTWORK, AND MOST IMPORTANT OF ALL. .. COMPETITIVE PRICING. 
SEND FOR OUR FLYER. . .SEND FOR OUR FLYER. . .SEND FOR OUR FLYER. . . 



What's 

New? 



A Complete Desk Top 
Assembly Language System 

For individuals and companies requiring a 
completely integrated software development 
system, one place to look is the capital 
goods market. An excellent example of such 
a product, which is well below the price of 
many existing microcomputer development 
systems, is this desk top computer from 
Tranti Systems, the uScopc Model 8000 
programming system. The uScope 8000 is 
unusual in that it is the programming devel- 



provide a complete facility for small business 
accounting, mailing lists, small data bases on 
tape, etc. For the hobbyist who wants an 
integrated package with an assembly lan- 
guage emphasis, this system would be ideal. 
And then again, for the intended industrial 
customers, this system at $6995 is a bargain 
compared to many program development 
packages. For further information, contact 
Tranti Systems, Inc, I Chelmsford Rd, N 
Billerica MA 01 862, (61 7) 667-8326." 




opment system equivalent of one of the desk 
top. BASIC oriented packages available from 
several manufacturers. However, instead of 
generating high level language interpretive 
code, it has an excellent interactive as- 
sembler so that optimized code can be 
crafted by hand. (According to Frank Tran- 
tanella, president, a high level language 
software package is presently being explored 
for even greater program generation effi- 
ciency.) As a complete computer system, the 
desk top unit contains: 

• Resident ROM software for memory 
editor, interactive assembler, monitor 

• ASCII text keyboard 

• Numeric and special function key- 
board 

• Video display . 

• Alphanumeric printer 

• Tape cartridge mass storage 



The standard configuration has an 8080 
processor, with an 8080 assembly code data 
table. However, since the assembler is 
written in a generalized fashion, the same 
system hardware can be used to generate 
(but not execute or test) code for virtually 
any 8 bit microprocessor architecture. This 
change is accomplished by reading in an 
alternate data table from tape. 

For the businessman hobbyist who wants 
to learn and understand assembly language 
applications of the 8080, this system could 



An 8080 Operating System 

A micro operating system for 8080 based 
microcomputers is now available from 'its 
originator D S Marcus. Its two main features 
are a monitor and a system call facility. The 
monitor provides a complete set of debug- 
ging aids and a program load capability. 
System calls allow a user program to invoke 
the operating system for performing various 
input/ouput related functions. 

Communication with the monitor is done 
via a command language. Individual com- 
mands are provided for inspecting and modi- 
fying both memory and 8080 user registers, 
setting breakpoints, masked memory search- 
ing, initializing a block of memory, dumping 
memory (both numeric and ASCII con- 
version provided), and more. Command 
operands can be given as arbitrary expres- 
sions consisting of numeric terms (octal, 
decimal and hexadecimal), ASCII and re- 
gister value terms. The conversion mode for 
values typed by the monitor can be set to 
octal, decimal or hexadecimal. 

System calls are provided for doing both 
character and line oriented input/output. 
Provision is made for supporting various user 
terminals including Teletype compatible de- 
vices. In addition, the operating system is 
written in such a way that it may reside in 
ROM (read only memory). 

A minimum memory configuration of 
4 K bytes is required to run the operating 
system. It is supplied as a proprietary soft- 
ware package on a self loading binary paper 
tape with a complete user's manual. It may 
be obtained for $50 from D S Marcus, PO 
Box 17066, Irvine CA 92713." 



Free Op Code Table Reprint 

Stanley Veit, storekeeper of the Com- 
puter Mart of New York, Inc, 314 Fifth Av, 
New York NY 10001, will send you a free 
copy of a Motorola M6800 operation codes 
table and reference sheet. Send him a self 
addressed stamped envelope. 



98 




7400NTTU 



SNT405N 
SN7406N 

SN74G7N 

SN7408N 
SN7-109N' 
SN7410N* 
SN7411N 
SN7412N 
SW7413N 
SN7414H 
SH7416N 
SN7417N 
SN7J20?i 
SN7421M 
SN7422N" 
SN7423N 
SN7425N 
SN7425N 
SN7427N 
SN7429N 
SN7430N 
SN7432.N 
SN7437N 
SN7438N 
SN7439N 
SN74-10N 
SN7441N 
SW7442N 
SN7443N 

SN7444N 

SN7-145N 
SN74J6N 
SN7447N* 
SN7448N 
SN745QN 
SN745tM 
SN7452N" 



SN7453N 

SN7454N 

SN7459A 

SN7460N 

SN7470N 

SM7471W 

SN7472N 

SN7473N' 

SN7474N* 

SN7475N' 

SN7476N' 

SN7479N' 

SK748QN 

SN74B2N 

SH7483N 

SN7485N 

SN7486N 

SW7468N 

SN7JB9N 

SN7490N* 

SN7491N 

SN7492N 

SN7493N" 

SK7494N 

SN7495N 

SN7496N 

SM7497N" 

SM74100N* 

SN74107N 

SN74121N- 

SN74122N 

3N74123N- 

SN74125N 

SN74126N 

SN74132N 

SN74136N 

SN7414IN 

SN74142N' 

SN74143N- 

SN74144N* 

SN74145N 

SN74147N 

SS74I48N 



mm 

SN7-150N 

SN74151N 
SN7i153N 

SN74154N* 
SN7J155N 
SN7<156N 
SM74157N 
SN7i160N 
SN74161N 
SN74t63fr 

SN74164N 
SN741B5N 
SN7416BN 

SN74167N 

SN7il70N 

SN74172N I 

SN7-J173N 

SN74 17411 

SN74175N 

SN74176N 

SN74177N 

SN741S0N 

SN741B1N 

SN7J182N 

SN7J184N 

SW74185N 

SN7-I186N 1 

SN74187N 

SN74190W 

SN74191N 

SN74192N* 

SN7<193N* 

SN74194N 

SN74195N 

SN74196N 

SN74197N 

SN7419BN 

SN74199N 

SN74200M 

SN74278N* 

SN7^25!N 

SN74284N 

SN7-I285N 



C04000 
GDI 00 1 
CD4G02 
C04006 
CD4007 
CD4009 
CD4010 
CD40U 
CD4012 
CD4013 
CD4U16 
CD4017 
CD40I9 
CD4020 
C04022 
CD4023 
CD4024 
CD4025 
CD4027 
CD4028 
CD4Q29 
CD4030 



CMOS 



CD4035 
CD4040 
CD4042 
CD4044 
CD4046 
CD4047 
CD4049 
CO4050 
CD4051 
CD4053 
CD4060 
CD4066 
C04Q69 
CD4Q71 
CD4072- 
CD4081 
CD46H 
CD4518 
74C00N 
74C02N 



74C04N 

74C10N 

74C20N 

74C30N 

74C42N 

74C73N 

74C74 

74C90N 

74C95N 

7JC107N 

74C151 

74 CI 54 

74C157 

74C160 

74C161 

74C163 

74 CI 64 

74C173 

74C193 

74C195 

MC4044* 

MCI 4016* 



LM300H 

LM3D1H 

LM301CN 

LM302H 

LW304H 

LM305H 

LM307CN 

LM30BH 

LM30BCN 

LM309H 

LM309K 

LM31QCN 

LM311H 

LM311N 

LM318CN 

LM319N 

LM3I9D 

LM320K-5 

LM320K-5 2 

LM320K-12 

LM320K15 

LM320T-5- 

LM320T.8- 

LM320T-12- 

LM320T-18* 

LM323K-S" 

LM324N 

LM339N 

LM340K-5 

LM340K12 

LM34DK-15 

LM340K-24 

LM34QT-5 

LM340T6 

LM340T-B" 

LM34QT-18* 

LM340M2 

LM340M5 

LM340T-24 

LM350N 

LM351CN 

LM37GN 

IM370H 

LM373N 



LINEAR 



LM377N 

LM3B0N 

LM380CN 

LM381N 

LM382N 

NE50IK 

NE510A 

NES31H 

NE536T 

NE540L 

NE550N 

NE553 

NE555V* 

NE560B- 

NE5618' 

NE5G2B- 

NE565H* 

NE565M* 

NES66CN* 

rjE557H* 

NE567V* 

LM703CN 

LM709H 

LM709N 

LM710N 

LM711N 

LM723N 

LM723H 

LM733N 

LM739N 

LM741CH 

LM741CN 

LM741 14N 

LM747H 

LM747N 

LM748H 

LM748N 

LM1303N 

LM1304N 

LM1305N 

LM1307N 

LM1310N 



LM1351N 

LM1414N 

LM145BC 

LMK96N 

LM1&56V 

LM2-11N 

LM2501N 

LM3CB5N 

LM3500N 

LM3905N 

LM3909* 

LM5S66N 

MCSES8V 

LM7525N 

LM7535N 

B038B* 

LM75450 

75451CN 

75452CN 

75453CN 

75454CN 

75491 CM 

75492CN 

7549JCN 

RCA LINEAR 

CA3013 

CA3023 

C7J035 

CA3039 

CA3D46 

CA3059 

CA30S0 

CA3090 

CA3081 

CA3082 

CA3033 

CA3086 

CA3039 

CA3091 

CA3123 

CA3130' 

CA3600 

RC4194 

RC4195 



kits EXAR 



ICS 



XR-2206KA 

Includes monoiiltiic function gerer 



XR-2206KB 

.if, XR2206KAa 



SPECIAL $27.95 

components (or PC board. 



TIMERS 

XR-555CP S 

XR-320P 

XR-556CP 1 

XR-2556CP : 

XR-2240CP I 

PHASE LOCKED LOOPS 
XR-210 : 

XR-567CP 

XR-2567CP ! 



STEREO DECODERS 
XR-1310P 
XR-1310EP 
XR1800P 

WAVEFORM GENERATORS 

XR-205 

XR-2206CP 

XR-22D7CP 

MISCELLANEOUS 

XR-2211CP 

XR-2261 

XR41 36^ 



DATA HANDBOOKS 

74D0 Pto-OUl & Description of 5400/7400 ICS $2.95 

CMOS Pin-out & Description of 4000 Series ICS S2.95 

LINEAR Pin-out & Functional Description $2.95 
k ALL THREE HANDBOOKS $6.95 



CONSUMER ELECTRONICS 



exelar 




DIGITAL WATCH 

This watch is manufactured 

by National Semiconductor 
.' It provides 5 functions, 
hours, minutes, seconds, 
dale, A.M. Indicator dot. 
Accuracy is assured lo 5 
seconds per monlh by ojp- 
cisiori quatlz crystal. If 
SDmeilung should go wrong 
wild ins watch, repair is as- 
sured within 48 hours atlent 
is received Complete with 
steel black leather band. 

ES4-YS 

3 MICRON GOLD 
PLATE BEZEL 

$29.95 

NOT A KIT 



Nevus 




DIGITAL ALARM CLOCK 

This 4 digit Movus Alarm Clock is a very reliable and smartly 
styled unil It pnwtdlB such leatures as an alarm sellable lo any 
minute ol Ihe day. a 7 minutes snooze alarm, a power kilure 



n A.M , P.M. indicator 



NOT A KIT 



$19.95 



xciton OPTO ELECTRONICS 

UTR0NIX DISCRETE LEDS 

MONSANTO 



125" dia. 

XC209R 5 $1 

XC209G 4 $1 

XC209Y 451 

XC2090 4 Si 



.200" dia. 



XC22R 
XC22G 
XC22Y 
XC220 



.185' 


dia. 


XC526R 


5S1 


XC526G 


4 SI 


XC526Y 


4. SI 


XC5260 

mm — 


■ 


•■I — 
.200' 


dia. 


XC556R 


sm 


XC556G 


4-S1 


XC556Y 


4. SI 


XC55S0 


4-31 




.190" dia. 



XC1UG 
XC111Y 

xcino 



.085" dia. 



MV50 
.085" dia 
red led 



I-NU3UJ i-nu/u 

■ ll 



TYPE 
MAN 1 
MAN 2 

MAN 3 
MAN 4 
MAN 7 



POLARITY 

COMMON ANODE 

5 x 7 DOT MATRIX 
COMMON CATHODE 
COMMON CATHODE 
COMMON ANODE 
MAN 7G COMMON ANODE-GREFN 
MAN 7Y COMMON ANODE-YELLOW 
MAN 72 COMMON ANODE 




DL707 

OL747 

DL750 

DL33B 

FND70 

FND503 

FND50/ 



COMMON CATHODE 
COMMON ANODE 
COMMON ANODE 
COMMON CA1HODE 
COMMON CATHODE 
COMMON CATHODE 
COMMON CATHODE 
COMMON ANODE 



IC SOLOERTAIL — LOW PROFILE (TIN) SOCKETS 



16 pin 
18 pm 
22 pin 



8 pm 
14 pin 
16 pin 



10 pin 
14 pin 
16 pin 



35 SOLDERTAIL STANDARD (TIN) 



^7^^7 



S0LDERTAIL STANDARD (GOLD) 



WIRE WRAP SOCKETS (GOLD) LEVEL #3 



50 PCS. RESISTOR ASSORTMENTS $1.75 PER ASST. 



10 OHM 
27 OHM 
6B OHM 



12 OHM 
33 OHM 
82 OHM 



15 OHM IB OHM 22 OHM 
39 OHM 47 OHM 5G OHM 
IQO OHM 120 OHM 150 OHM 



1B0OHM 220 OHM 270 OHM 330 OHM 390 OHM 
470 OHM 560 OHM 680 OHM 820 OHM IK 



39K 
10QK 



ASST. 7 
LL OTHER 



5-25 



PCS: 



1M 1 2M 

5 ea. 2 7M 3 3M 

RESISTORS FROM 2 2 

05 BJ 30-95 PCS 



04 



120K 
330K 
820K 
2 2M 
4 7M 5 BM 

5 6M AVAILABLE 

100-495 



270K 
680K 
1 SM 



03 



1/4 WATT S". 
MULTIPLES 

la 500-995. 



50 PCS. 

- 50 PCS. 
-- 50 PCS. 

50 PCS. 
50 PCS. 

- 5D PCS. 

= 50 PCS. 

OF 3 ea 

.027 ea 



14 PCS. POTENTIOMETER ASSORTMENTS 
ASST A 2 ca: 10 OHM-20 OHM-50 OHM-100 OHM-200 OHM-250 OHM-50O OHM 
ASST. B 2 ea: IK. 2K, 2 5K, 10K. 20K, 25K. 50K 
ASST C2ea: 50K. 10QK.200K, 250K, 500K. 1M, 2M $9.95 r6f ASSt. 




Each ,. 



4 pes Ol 10 li 



i pots. 



II pots are available irt Einrilu 



il quan 



'Astrisk Denotes Items On Special For This Month" 
Satisfaction Guaranteed. S5.0D Min. Order. U.S. Funds. 
California Residents — Add 6% Sales Tax — Data Sheets 25c each 
Send a 13c Stamp (postage) for a FREE 1976 Catalog 

1021 HOWARD ST., SAN CARLOS, CA. 94070 
PHONE ORDERS — (415) 592-8097 



74LSO0 
74LS02 
74LS03 
74LS04 
74LS05 
74LS08 
74LS10 
74LS13 
74LS14 
74LS20 
74LS26 
74LS27 
74LS28 
74LS30 
74LS32 
74LS40 
74LS51 



74LSO0 TTL 



.39 



74LS55 
74LS73 
74LS74 
74LS75 
74LS76 
74LS83 
74LSBB 
74LS90 
74LS92 
74LS93 
74LS95 
74LS96 
74LS107 
74LS112 
74LS132 
74 LSI 36 
74LS138 



1.89 



74LS151 

74 LSI 53 
74LS157 
74LS162 
74 LSI 63 
74LS164 
74LS181 
74LS190 
74LSI91 
74LSI92 
74LS193 
74LS194 
74LS195 
74LS257 
7JLS260 
74LS279 
74LS670 



DL728 

.The OL728 is a dual 0.5" commor cathode red 
Display. II is ideal for use wiin clock chips, as 
segments are already multiplexed. $2. 95 



113 



MINATURE 
TOGGLE 

I 

m 



PUSH BUTTON 

Model 1 Quamty nel prices £■> 

Number Each 2-9 10-29 30-99 9 

.PB-123 S2-35 SI 95 SI. 47 SI. 30 A 



PB-126 S235 SI 95 SI 47 SI 30 



THUMBWHEEL SWITCHES 



m mm 



ACCESSORIES 
Dcstnplion 

Enn Puie iPsin 



ACCESSORIES 



B POSITION ROTARY SWITCH Tiieso switches .tie a 7 position, one 
position open roiary switch tinrj^osec >n 
(' '\ a TO-5 can They haw a standard 8 pin 

contiyiiraiion and will mount perfectly 



$.79 



TYPE 
IN746 
1N751A 

IN 752 
1N753 
1N754 

1N965B 
1N5232 
1N5234 
1N5235 
1N5236 
1N456 
1N458 
IN485A 
1N4001 
1N.HJ02 
IN4003 
!N-!fl04 



7ENERS— DIODES— RECTIFIERS 



400m 
400m 
500m 

500m 
500m 

500m 



4.1.00 
4.1 00 
4 1.00 



TYPE VOLTS 

1N40O5* 600 PiV 
1N4006* 800 PIV 
1N4007* 1000 PIV 
1N3600 
KJ4I48 



irj-iis-i 



35 



50 PIV 

100 PIV 
200 PIV 

400 PIV 



1N4734 5.6 

1N4735 6.2 

1N4736 6.8 

1N4738 8.2 

1N4742 12 

1N4744 15 

IN1 183 50 PIV 

1N1184 100 PIV 

IN1186 200 PIV 

1N5188 400 PIV 



1 AMP 
1 AMP 
1 AMP 
200m 



35 AMP 
35 AMP 
35 AMP 
35 AMP 



Mi':; Aii~ 
MI'S A06 
2W219A 

2NM21 

2PI?369 

7N.?Jo8A 
FN2J15 
?N?JS4 

?i;;-3iJeA 

?N?90ZA 
2N29Z5 
?N3053 
2N3055 
M.IF.IOS!., 
M.|[^i:,S 
2N3392 
2N3398 



TRANSISTORS 



«Si oo 

5-51.00 
4.S1 00 



51.00 
(I.2S 
SiSI.OO 

5'S1 00 



PN356J 


3 SI 00 


PN356S 


451 OO 


PS356? 


J Si 00 


2fi37(M 


5 51 00 


2ttVK 


5 51 00 


2N3708 


5.S1 00 


2N37D3 


5.S1 00 


2N371 1 


5'SIOO 


2N372J 


5 65 


2N372£ 


Si 00 


2N3903 


5'S1 00 


2N390-". 


J/Sl OP 




*m oo 


2NJ90'.: 


4,'Sl 00 


2N4013 


3/S1 00 


2N3014 


3.SI 00 



V 



PN1250 

2ttmo 

ZN4-101 
2N4J02 
2WJ03 
2Ni409 

2^50BS 
2N50B7 
2N5098 

2 N 5083 
2N5129 

2N5138 
2N5139 
2N520Q 



5 SI 00 
4 SI 00 
J SI 00 
J SI 00 



N5951 
C10681SCR 2'S1.0i 



CAPACITOR CORNER 

50 VOLT CERAMIC DISC CAPACITORS 



10-49 50-100 



.0022 

0047m 
,01ml 



47 35V 
68 35V 
1.035V 



10 50V 
22 25V 
22 50V 
47 25V 
47 50V 
100 25V 
100 50V 
220 25V 
220 50V 
470 25V 
000 10V 
2200 16V 



100 VOLT MYLAR FILM CAPACITORS 
10 07 ,022mt 13 

.10 .07 ,047mf .21 



.07 



.1mf 



.27 



.23 



22ml 

- 20% DIPPED TANTALUMS (SOLID) CAPACITDRS 

28 .23 .17 1.5 35V 30 .20 

28 .23 .17 2.2 25V .31 .27 

28 .23 .17 3.3 25V .31 .27 

28 .23 .17 4.7 25V ,32 .28 

28 .23 .17 6.8 25V .35 .31 

28 .23 .17 10 25V 40 -35 

28 .23 .17 15 25V 63 -50 

MINIATURE ALUMINUM ELECTROLYTIC CAPACITDRS 
Radial Lead 



Aiial Lead 

13 



.47 25V 

.47 50V 15 

1.0 16V .15 

1.0 25V 16 

1.0 50V .16 

4.7 16V 15 

4 7 25V .15 

4.7 50V ,16 

10 16V 14 

10 25V .15 

10 50V 16 

47 50V .24 

100 1SV 19 

100 25V .24 

100 50V 35 

220 16V .23 

470 25V .31 



What's 

New? 



Space War, Anyone? 

The deluxe way to accomplish sophisti- 
cated games and activities involving graphics 
is of course to start or go to work for a 
company which has such computerized 
graphics as a way of life. An example of a 
type of system you're likely to find in such a 
context is this Scientific Process & Research 
Inc SPAR/GRAPHICS system based on a 
Data General NOVA 3 or ECLIPSE mini- 
computer, hard surface disk drive, 1024 by 
1024 point display, CRT terminal and plot- 
ter. The hardware of course is not all that's 





Fill Space With ROMs 

An Altair 8800 compatible Programmable 
Read Only Memory card which takes advan- 
tage of the very high speed, low cost, 
plentiful supply, and ease of programming of 
bipolar PROMs is available from Digitech, 
PO Box 6838, Grosse Pointc Ml 48236. The 
card may contain a maximum of either 1 K 
or 2 l< of 8 bit bytes using either industry 
standard 256 x 4 or 512 x 4 bipolar fusible 
link PROMs, respectively. A board cycle 
time of 180 ns maximum allows the 8080 
processor to run at maximum speed with no 
waiting for memory data. Full provision is 
made on the board for power regulation, 
filtering, and decoupling, address and con- 
trol signal decoding, and data output buffer- 
ing. The address for the board is very simply 
set by a DIP switch mounted on the board. 
All circuits are socket mounted with the 
exception of the +5 V regulator which is 
mounted on a heatsink. The board itself is 
type G-10 epoxy and is double sided with 
plated through holes. The decoding circuits 
are low power 74LS series. The board comes 
completely assembled and tested, minus 
PROMs." 



involved in such a system, and SPAR pro- 
vides a powerful graphics command language 
to go along with the unit. The software is 
documented to the level of standard 
FORTRAN calls so that user developed 
FORTRAN programs can also manipulate 
the display. The software handles two and 
three dimensional images, objects in motion, 
rotations, etc. Systems are available from 
SPAR starting at $5000 minus the cost of 
the NOVA 3 or ECLIPSE disk system. 
Descriptive literature is offered on letterhead 
request. Contact Scientific Process & Re- 
search Inc, 24 N Third Av, Highland Park 
NJ 08904." 

Watt's New? 

One of the biggest drawbacks of most 
power supplies (check the surplus advertise- 
ments) is what might be called the "power 
to weight ratio." A typical conventional 
power supply of 5 V at 10.5 A (52.5 W) 
might weigh 16 pounds, a large amount of 
iron to lug around, especially if you want to 
make your system portable. One of the 
technological solutions to this excessive 
weight is a form of power supply which uses 
what is called the "switching regulator" 
concept. 

An example of the weight savings of a 
switching supply is provided by a new 




product from Boschert Associates, 1031 E 
Duane, Suite C, Sunnyvale CA 94086. This 
product is the model OL80 power supply, 
which weighs a mere two pounds and pro- 
vides +5 V at 1 A, +1 2 V at 2 A, - 1 2 V at 
2 A, and either -9 V or -5 V at 2 A. The 
design has overvoltage, overcurrent and re- 
verse voltage protection. The total power 
output is 80 W maximum. Just looking at 
the 5 V supply alone, the 50 W logic capa- 
bility of this switching supply gives a power 
to weight ratio of 25 as compared to the 
randomly picked conventional supply's 
power to weight ratio of 3.2. In small quan- 
tities, this power supply costs $199; how- 
ever, it should prove more than adequate for 
many microcomputer applications with its 
large logic power capacity and ample capac- 
ity for linear interfaces. ■ 



100 



DELTA ELECTRONICS CO 



POST OFFICE BOX 2, AMESBURY, MASS. 



01913 



Phone (617) 3884705 













Giant Alpha— Numeric NIXIE Tubes 



One of the ultimate forms of computer output. These Burroughs NIXIE 
tubes have characters 2!4" high, easily readable from long distances. The 
character is a 15 segment Alpha-Numeric type. The tubes (no. B7971) are 
mounted in 2 sockets on a PC board, which contains 33 driver transistors. 
We supply data on the tubes. Ideal for large clocks, store displays, sports 
scoreboards, or any other alpha-numeric display. Shipping weight 2 lbs. 

STOCK NO. B6001 set of 2 tubes, sockets, PC board $6.95, 2 sets/12.00 



Laboratory Regulated Power Supply 



This power supply was designed for use in a small computer system 
where performance and reliability were an absolute must. 5 output 
voltages are available: 

1. 12 volts DC @ 1.0 amp 

2. 14 volts DC <s> 2.9 amps 

3. 18 volts DC @ 6.6 amps 

4. 26.5 volts DC @ 3.25 amps 

5. 24 volts DC@ 1.6 amp 

All voltages are semiconductor rectified and highly filtered, and may be run at full load at the same time. Each output is fused 
seperately, and the entire supply is circuit breaker protected. A switched AC outlet is available on the front panel. This would 
be an ideal supply for a small system; each board could have its own on-board voltage regulators. Also good as a general purpose 
laboratory power supply. Use it stand-alone or rack mounted. 17'/2" wide x 5" deep x 6%" high. Shipping weight 35 lbs. 




STOCK NO. B5025 



$27.50 each, 2 for $50 



5 volt Power Supply Kit 



This power supply kit contains all the parts needed to construct a 5.0 volt regulated power supply, rated at 1 amp. Ideal for small 
DTL or TTL projects, and as a breadboard power supply. The kit contains the following: power transformer, LM309 5v regulator, 
TO-3 socket for the LM309, line cord, pilot light, power switch, and a printed circuit board containing a bridge rectifier, fuse holder, 
filter capacitor, and bleeder resistor. Data supplied. Shipping weight 3 lbs. 



STOCK NO. B5097 



Complete 5 volt power supply kit 



$9.50 each, 3 kits for $25 



RCA End View NUMITR0NS 



The RCA end view NUMITRON is a 7 
segment incandescent readout tube, with 
a character height of 5/8". It requires a 
9 pin Novar socket, which we furnish with 
each tube. The tube operates at a nomi- 
nal voltage of 4.5v, and draws 24 ma. per 
segment. It can be filtered to any color. 
With data. 

STOCK NO. B5207 with sockets $2.75 ea, 4/10.00, 8/18.00 




OPCOA RED LEDs 



OPCOA no. OSL-3-30 red LED. All are new & tested good. Use 

in all types of displays. .20" dia., can be panel or PC board mounted. 

STOCK NO. B4536 .25 each, 5/$1.00 



P 



diode-lite™ led logic/state 
fault indicators 

DIALIGHT 555-2003 GaAs LED indicator, red 
diffused light. Built in series resistor to make it 
directly usable with TTL; draws 6 ma. @ 5 volts. 
.10" wide x .24" deep x .25" high. Vert, PC mount. 

STOCK NO. 



B4537 



.50 each, 5/$2.00 




NiCod Batteries 



Nickel Cadmium rechargeable batteries (NiCads) are 
highly desirable items, useful in many applications. 
Although their initial cost might seem high, the fact 
that they can be recharged many hundreds of times 
makes the per use cost negligable. We have a good selection of 
sealed NiCads made by Burgess. Our low prices are about 50% 
of current distributor prices. NiCads are very useful in keeping 
memory up in case of power failure. Many other uses of course. 



Burgess no. Volts 


Size 


Stock no 


Pr 


ce 


.600 SC ' 1 .2 


.600 x 1.95 


B5125 


$1.50ea, 


4/5.50 


CD13L 1.2 


1.27 x 1.44 


B5289 


3.25 ea. 


4/12.00 


CD22 6.0 


1.06 x 1.97 


B5290 


4.25 ea. 


4/16.00 


CD24 9.6 


1.06 x 2.65 


B5291 


6.75 ea, 


4/25.00 


CD25 9.6 


1.06 x 3.20 


B5292 


6.95 ea, 


4/26.00 


CD27L 12 


1.065 x 2.93 


B5293 


7.50 ea, 


4/28.00 


* Gould brand 











Heat Sink 



A small aluminum heat sink for TO-220, etc. 
V/i" x 1 1/8" x %" high. Could be mounted 
on PC board for regulators or power transistors. 

STOCK NO. B7192 5/$1.00 




Send for our latest free catalog. We welcome Mastercharge & 
on the card for processing. Please include sufficient postage ( 



BankAmeriCard orders; we must have ALL the numbers 
2 lbs. min.); excess will be refunded. Minimum order $5. 




You'll Want to Nybble 
at these Byte Books 

Where does the editor of a computer magazine turn to when he must 
verify some author's hardware design? Information on a 75450 
interface gate, or a 74147 priority encoder circuit does not spring forth 
by magic. Checking the information supplied by authors is part of 
BYTE's quality control program. 
When you build a project, you need this same sort of information. All you find in the advertisements for parts are 
mysterious numbers identifying the little beasties . . . hardly the sort of information which can be used to design a 
custom logic circuit. You can find out about many of the numbers by using the information found in these books. No 
laboratory bench is complete without an accompanying library shelf filled with references - and this set of Texas 
Instruments engineering manuals plus Don Lancaster's TTL Cookbook will provide an excellent starting point or 
addition to your personal library. 



• The TTL Cookbook by Don Lancaster, published by Howard 
W. Sams, Indianapolis, Indiana. Start your quest for data here with 
Don's tutorial explanations of what makes a TTL logic design tick. 
335 pages, $8.95 postpaid. 

• The TTL Data Book for Design Engineers, by Texas 
Instruments Incorporated. How does an engineer find out about 
the TTL circuits? He reads the manufacturer's literature. This 640 
page beauty covers the detailed specs of most of the 7400 series 
TTL logic devices. No experimenter working with TTL has a 
complete library without The TTL Data Book for Design 
Engineers. Order yours today, only $3.95 postpaid. 

• The Supplement to The TTL Data Book for Design Engi- 
neers, by Texas Instruments Incorporated. What happens when 
you can't find a 7400 series device listed in The Data Book for 
Design Engineers? Before you start screaming and tearing your 
hair out in frustration, turn to the Supplement. The Supplement 
has 400 pages of additional information including a comprehensive 
index to both TTL Data Book volumes. To be complete (and keep 
your hair in place and vocal cords intact) you'd best order the 
supplement at $1 .95 to accompany the main volume. 

• The Linear and Interface Circuits Data Book for Design 
Engineers, by Texas Instruments Incorporated. When you run 
across one of those weird numbers like 75365 the immediate 
frustration problem occurs again. What kind of gate could that be? 
We won't tell in this ad, but you can find out by reading the 
specifications in The Linear and Interface Circuits Data Book for 
Design Engineers. You can interface your brain to the 72xxx 
(linear) and 75xxx (interface) series of functions by ordering your 
copy of this 688 page manual at only $3.95 postpaid. 

• The Semiconductor Memory Data Book for Design Engi- 
neers, by Texas Instruments, Incorporated. Don't forget the 
importance of memories to your systems. Refer to this 272 page 
manual to find out about the T.I. versions of many of the popular 
random access memories and read only memories. Order your 
personal copy today, only $2.95 postpaid. 



• The Transistor and Diode Data Book for Design Engineers, 

by Texas Instruments, Incorporated. You'd expect a big fat data 
book and a wide line of diodes and transistors from a company 
which has been around from the start of semiconductors. Well, its 
available in the form of this 1248 page manual from T.I. which 
describes the characteristics of over 800 types of transistors and 
over 500 types of silicon diodes. This book covers the T.I. line of 
low power semiconductors (1 Watt or less). You won't find every 
type of transistor or diode in existence here, but you'll find most 
of the numbers used in switching and amplifying circuits. Order 
your copy today, only $4.95 postpaid. 

• The Power Semiconductor Handbook for Design Engineers by 

Texas Instruments, Incorporated. To complement the low power 
transistor handbook, T.I. supplies this 800 page tome on high 
power transistors and related switching devices. Here is where you 
find data on the brute force monsters which are used to control 
many Watts electronically. Fill out your library with this book, 
available for only $3.95 postpaid. 

• Understanding Solid State Electronics by Texas Instruments, 
Incorporated. This is an excellent tutorial introduction to the 
subject of transistor and diode circuitry. The book was created for 
the reader who wants or needs to understand electronics, but can't 
devote years to the study. This 242 page softbound book is a must 
addition to the beginner's library at only $2.95. 

• The Optoelectronics Data Book for Design Engineers by 

Texas Instruments, Incorporated. This 366 page book is a 
compendium of information on T.I. phototransistors, LEDs and 
related devices. Order yours at $2.95 postpaid. 

Buyers of these books should be cautioned: heavy reading will be required. These 
books are so filled with information that they weigh in at a total of about 190 
ounces (5387 grams). On the basis of sheer mass, these books have got to be the 
bargain of the century. Make sure that you use a structurally sound book shelf and 
above all avoid dropping one of these books on your foot. But the mass of these 
books doesn't affect the bargain: we pay postage on all orders shipped to addresses 
in the USA and Canada, so the prices you see are the prices you pay. (That's only 
S.005 per gram on the average.) 



.TTL Cookbook @ $8.95 

.TTL Data Book @ $3.95 

.Supplement to TTL Data Book @ $1.95 

. Linear and Interface Circuits @ $3.95 

. Semiconductor Memory Data @ $2.95 

. Transistor and Diode Data Book @ $4.95 

. Understanding Solid State Electronics <s> $2.95 

. Optoelectronics Data Book <a $2.95 

. Power Semiconductor Handbook @ $3.95 



Please add 75 cents for postage and handling. 

Send to: Name 



Please allow six weeks for delivery. 



Address 



City 



Slate 



Zip 



BITE 



1 1 Check enclosed 

□ Bill MC= 

□ Bill BA# 



Exp. Date. 
.Exp. Date. 



PETERBOROUGH, NH 03458 



Signature 



Feel free to photocopy this or any other page it you wish to keep your BYTE intact. 



MC14412 UNIVERSAL MODEM CHIP 
MC144I2 contains a complete FSK modulator and de-mod- 
ulator compatible with Foreign and USA communications. 
(0-600 BPS) 
FEATURES: 

.On chip crystal oscillator 
.Echo suppressor disable tone generator 
.Originate and answer modes 

.Simplex, half-duplex, and full duplex operation 
.On chip sine wave 
.Modem self test mode 
.Selectable data rates: 0-200 
0-300 
0-600 
.Single supply 
VDD=4.75 to 15VDC - PL suffix 
VDD=4.75 to 6 VDC - VL suffix 
TYPICAL APPLICATIONS: 

.Stand alone - low speed modems 
.Built - in low speed modems 
.Remote terminals, accoustic couplers 

MC 1 441 2 FL S28. 99 

MC14412VL 521.74 

6 pages of data .60 

Crystal for the above $4.95 



j^k 





11 


T. O.t. 


' 


Cur 




T2 


o 


13 






10 














14 






> 15 


TTLD 
ST 






, 






";°!!!«„ 


■ 


c. 






i". 








5 













MC1441I BIT RATE GENERATOR. 
Single chip for generating selectable frequencies for equip- 
ment in data communications such as TTY, printers, CRT s 
or microprocessors. Generates 14 different standard bit 
rates which are multiplied under external control to IX, 
8X, 16X or 64X initial value. Operates from single +5 

volt supply. MC14411 $11.98 

4 pages of data 40 

Crystal for the above S4.95 









! 




H - 1 






1M6100 CPU. Intersils' 12 bit CMOS CPU chip is the 
microprocessor which recognizes the famous PDP8/E instruc- 
tion set. Single power supply, 4-7WV 400uA. $52.50 
Full data packet $4.00 



TELETYPE CODE CONVERSION CHIP 

MM5220BL converts 5 level Baudot into 8 level ASCII. Use 

this chip to moke your old TTY talk to your new computer. 

MM5220BL $18.00 

Specs for the above .30 



MOS TIME BASE KIT. 

Only 1" X 1.5". Input 5 to 15 VDC, output is 60HZ 
square wave for portable or mobile clocks. PC board is 
dri I led I MTB K-60HZ $5.8 




78H05 Voltage regulator. Foirchild 5V, 5A, TO-3 reg- 
ulator. Take care of those heavy current requirments with- 
out separate regulator/pass transistor combinations. Use it 
with the same ease of instalation as the 309K(same pin 
arrangement.) with specs Si 1 .25. 




LM317 Voltage Regulator. 1 ,5A, 3 terminal adjustable 
regulator in TO-3 case. Adjusts from + 1.2V to +37V. 
Complete overload protection. .1% load regulation, 
.01%/V line regulation. No need to stock assorted reg- 
ulators - just stock resistors $4.99 

Specs for the above .70 

DATA BOOKS BY NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR 

DIGITAL. Covers TTL, DTL, Tri-State, etc $3.95 

LINEAR. Covers amplifiers, pre-amps, op-amps, .. $3.95 
LINEAR APPLICATIONS. Dozens of application notes and 
technical briefs covering the use oF op-amps, regulators, 

phase locked loops and audio amps $3.25 

CMOS Gates, Flip Flops, registers, functional blocks $3 
VOLTAGE REGULATORS. A must for anyone making a 
power supply. Complete theory" including transformers, 

filters, heat sinks, regulators, etc $3.00 

MEMORY. Information on MOS and Bipolar memories': 

RAMS, ROMS, PROMS and decoders/encoders $3.95 

INTERFACE. Covers peripheral drivers, level translators, 
line driver/receivers, memory and clock drivers, sense amps 

display driver and opto-couplers $3.95 

(Outside U.S., add postage far 1 .5lbsl 

DATA BOOKS FROM FAIRCHILD. 

uA Linear. 776 pages of data and applications for Fair- 
child linear ICs. Great value $4.25 

MOS/CMOS/nMOS/pMOS/CCD. Data ond applications on 

MOS and charge coupled devices including preliminary data 
on new and future offerings. Want to know about ]6K 
charge coupled line addressable memories? $3.95 



acctf™ 



Says 



If you've got Ants In your plants 
trying to dig up a real 
components bargain — Try Tri-Tek 



GOLD CHIP 

Linear Integrated Circuits 

Brand new process by RCA in which the aluminum metalizotion 
has been replaced by gold. The chip is then hermetically seal- 
ed. What this means to you is unprecedented reliability and 
uniformity. Plastic parts that meet mil specs! I 
Tri-Tek is proud to be the first to bring this new level of 
performance to you at SURPLUS PRICES. Why buy regrades?? 

CA301 A. .Improved, general purpose op-amp, 8 pin dip. .59$ 

CA307. . .Super 741 op-amp. 8 pin dip 52$ 

CA324. . .Compensated quad op-omp, 14 pin dip $1.80 

CA339A.. Low offset quad comparator. 14 pin dip. ..$1.59 
CA741 C. . Famous general purpose op-amp, 8 pin dip.. 45$ 
CA747C. .General purpose dual op-amp, 14 pin dip... 82? 

CA748C.. Externally compensated 741, 8 pin dip 49$ 

CA1458. .General purpose dual op-amp. 8 pin dip 69$ 

CA3401..Ouad single supply (5-18V) op amp. 14 pin.. 89$ 

Another super buy from RCA. CA555 timer. 8 pin dip. 59$ 

INTEL Data Catalog. Contains latest information on all the 
famous INTEL micro-processor and memories $4.00 

IMPROVED Performance version of the famous 8080, 8 bit 
microprocessor. 8080A $34.95 

SN75491 . . . .digit driver 59$ 

SN75492 digit driver 59$ 

UART AY5-1013A An ideal device for driving computer 
peripherals such as teletypes & video terminals. . . .$9.45 



PRECISION TO-92 plastic regulator. LM34QAZ, available In 
+5 or +15 Volts. Improvement over the 78L05, same size. 100mA. 
LM340AZ-5 or LM340AZ-1 5 $1.10 



NSL4944 LED. Current regulated, universal diffused-lens 
red LED lamp. A GaAsP solid-state high intensity LED 
encapsulated in a plastic package containing a current reg- 
ulating IC that provides constant intensity over a wide volt- 
age range. 2 to 18V, AC or DC. Use for indicator lamps, 
optical coupling, battery charging circuits, logic probes, 
almost any place you need a lamp. Long life, wide angle. 
No series resistor needed. Typical 13mA forward current. 
NSL4944 with panel mounting clip 89$ 



D-A CONVERTER BY ZELTEX 

8 bit precision hybrid circuit for use in controllers, timers, 
volt meters, etc. Molded plastic package with P.C. pins. 
Super buy on this better than usuol subsystem. ZELTEX 
model ZD430. DAC-430 $4.95 



NEW BOOK!!! "An Introduction to Microcomputers" 
This is the book which Foirchild Semiconductor Company 

called " the best darned introduction to the industry 

to date." Covers everything from basic concepts to a re- 
view of real microcomputers. IMC-001 $8.00 




TRi-tek, me. 

6522 noRth 43R6 avenue, 

QLendALe. ARizonA 85301 

phone 602 - 931-6949 



We pay shipping on all orders over $10 US, $15 foreign in US funds. Orders 
under $10, please add $1 hondling. Please add insurance. Master Charge 
and Bank America cards welcome, ($20 minimum) Telephone orders may be 
placed 11AM to 5PM daily, Mon thru Fri. Call 602-931-4528. Check reader 
service card or send stamp for our latest flyers packed with new and surplus 
electronic components. 



Software Bug of the Month I 



W Douglas Maurer 
University Library Room 634 
George Washington University 
Washington DC 20052 



Professor Floyd's Bug 

This bug is often used by Prof Robert W 
Floyd, of the Computer Science Department 
at Stanford University, to illustrate his 
theory of the proof of correctness of 
programs. 

We arc given an array A, let us say given 
by the FORTRAN language statement 
DIMENSION A(100). The elements of A are 
assumed to be stored in ascending order by 
value. Thus if l< J, then A(l) < A(J), For all 
I and J from 1 through 100. We are trying to 
find an clement X in this tabic by the 



YTE'S 
UGS 



Here lies documenta- 
tion of known bugs de- 
tected in previous editions 
of BYTE. . . 



Apologies to author Roger Frank: The 
caption to listing 3, page 72, BYTE May 
1976, should read 

"A successive approximation conversion, 
specified as a symbolic assembly language 
program for the Motorola 6800 processor. 
Note that for fast processors or slow opera- 
tional amplifiers (such as the 741), a delay 
loop should be inserted between lines 4 and 
5 of this program to allow the output to 
settle." 

Mr Frank had independently created his 
routine several months before publication of 
Motorola's application note on conversion 
techniques. . . . CH 

My Dear Aunt Sally's Migraine 

The example of table 2 in "My Dear Aunt 
Sally" (page 24, February 1976 BYTE) 
contains an error in the application of 
precedence rules. The last six lines of the 
table should read: 

Output 

G 

* 

/ 
f 
+ 

This error was detected by Roger Fritz of 

Davenport I A among others. 



Input 






Stack 


* 






+t(/» 


G 

) 






+t(/* 
+t 


end 


of str 


"9 





In J Bradley Flippin's "The SR-52: An- 
other World's Smallest," April 1976, page 
38: The expression given near the lop of the 
second column has a single character error 
which completely changes the value com- 
puted. The error is due to a translation of a 
division sign into an addition sign. The 
correct expression is: 

6x (9t(6x (12-f (3x(8x'(2x(6*(6x(6 + 2))))))))) 

This error was detected by Abijah Reed of 
Polaroid Corporation, Cambridge MA." 



method of repeatedly dividing the table in 
half. 

Figure 1 shows how the method is sup- 
posed to work. We have three indices, I, ), 
and K. The index J is supposed to be 
halfway between I and K. By testing X 
against A(J), we can see whether X is 
between I and J or between J and K. If X is 
less than A(J), then X is between I and J; 
otherwise it is between J and K. 

Initially, we set I = 1 and K = 100, so we 
are searching the whole table. At each stage, 
we divide the table in half, and set the new I 
and K to be the beginning and the end, 
respectively, of the new table (either the 
first half or the second half of the old table). 

When the table size gets down to 1, the 
algorithm stops, since we can now test a 



I 

J 

K 
100 



H 



new I (if X < A (J) ) 

newK(ifX<A(J)) 
new I (if X > A (J) ) 

newK(ifX>A(J) ) 



Figure I : A sketch of the array A in which a 
particular value, X, is being sought. 



single element only. The FORTRAN expres- 
sion of this program is as follows, assuming 
that, if X is in the table, we go to statement 
number 4, and otherwise we continue with 
the next statement in sequence: 



1 


l< = 100 

J = (l + K)/2 

IF(X.GT.A(J) ) GO TO 2 

K=J 

GO TO 3 


3 


l - J 

IF (1 .NE. K) GOTO 1 

IF (X.EQ.A(I) ) GO TO 4 



When this program is tried out, it works 
intermittently. Sometimes it finds the quan- 
tity X in the table, and sometimes it goes 
into an endless loop, even when X is in the 
table. 

Can you find the bug? 

SOLUTION IN NEXT MONTH'S BYTE 



104 



S. D. SALES CO. 



P. O. BOX 28810 DALLAS, TEXAS 75228 



ALARM CLOCK KIT SIX DIGIT LED 

Thousands of hobbyists have bought and built our original clock kit 
and were completely satisfied. But we have received many requests 
for an alarm clock kit with the same value and quality that you have 
come to expect from S.D. So, here it is! 

THE KIT INCLUDES: 

1 Mostek 50252 Alarm Clock Chip 

6 Hewlett Packard .30 in. common cathode readouts. 

1 5 NPN Driver Transistors 

1 Etched and Drilled P.C. Board set 

1 Step Down Transformer 

2 Switches for time set 

2 Slide Switches for alarm set and enable 

1 Filter Cap 

4 IN4002 Rectifiers 

1 IN914Diode 

1 .01 Disc Cap 

15 Resistors 

1 Speaker for alarm 

1 LED lamp for PM indicator. 



$ 16. 



50 



(COMPLETE KIT) 



Why pay MORE MONEY for our competitor's clock that has LESS 
DIGITS that are SMALLER in size? 

Please take note that we use only first run parts in our kits and 
include ALL the necessary parts. Not like some of our competitors 
who use retested readouts and chips or who may not even include 
switches in their kits. 



60 Hz. Crystal Time Base 

FOR DIGITAL CLOCKS Jc 

S. D. SALES EXCLUSIVE! 



95 



The kit you have been waiting for is here NOW, and at an 
unbelievable price! Thanks to S.D. Sales you can turn that digital 
clock of yours into a superbly accurate, DC operated, time piece. 

KIT FEATURES: 

A. 60 Hz output with accuracy comparable to a digital watch. 

B. Directly interfaces with all MOS clock. chips. 

C. Super low power consumption (1 .5 Ma typ.) ^\0 

D. Uses latest MOS 17 stage divider IC. $$^*^ 

E. Eliminates forever the problem of AC line glitches. 

F. Perfect for cars, boats, campers, or even for portable 

clocks at ham field days. 

G. Small size, can be used in existing enclosures. 

Kit includes crystal, divider IC, P.C. Board plus all other necessary 
parts and specs. 




ORDERS OVER $1 5 CHOOSE 
$1 FREE MERCHANDISE 



2102 1K RAM'S - 8 FOR $12.95 

We bought a load on a super 



deal, hence this fantastic price. 

Units tested for 500NS Speed. 



MOTOROLA RTL IC'S 

Brand new, factory prime. Hard to find, but still 
used in a variety of projects. (See the RTL Cook- 
book by Howard W. Sams.) 



MC724P-59C 
MC725P-59C 
MC764P-49C 
MC767P-69C 
MC771P-49c 
MC775P-89C 



MC780P-89C 
MC785P-49C 
MC787P-89C 
MC788P-49C 
MC789P-59C 
MC790P-89C 



MC791P-69C 

MC792P-59C 

MC799P-59C 

MC9704P-89C 

MC9709P-69C 

MC9760P-69C 



MV-50TYPELED's 

by UTPONIX 
10 lor $1 

Factory Prime' 



3 DIGIT LED ARRAY — 75c 



by UTRONIX 
DL33MMB. 3 MAN-3 Size Readouts in one 
package. These are factory prime, not 
retested rejects as sold by others, 
compare this price! 75c 3 for $2. 



SALE ON CUT LEAD SEMICONDUCTORS 

Leads were cut for PCB insertion. Still very useable. 



1N914/1N4148 100/S2 

1N4002 1 Amp 100 PIV 40/$1 

1N4745A16V1WZener 20/S1 

EN2222 NPN Transistor 25/S1 

EN2907 PNP Transistor 25/51 

2N3904 NPN Driver Xstr 25/S1 

2N3392 GE Pre-amp Xstr 25IS1 

C103YSCR.800MA.60V 10/$1 



ALL NEW. 

UNUSED. 

SOME ARE 

HOUSE # 



SLIDE SWITCH ASSORTMENT 

Our best seller. Includes miniature and standard 
sizes, single and multi-position units. All new, 
first quality, name brand switches. Try one pack- 
age and you'll reorder more. Special — 12 lor SI 
(Assortment) 



DISC CAP ASSORTMENT 

PC leads. At least 10 different 

values. Includes .001 , .01 , .05, 

plus other standard values. 

60 FOR $1 



UPRIGHT ELECTROLYTIC CAPS 

47 mfd 35 V-10/S1 68mfd25V-8/$1 
Brand new by Sprague. PC leads. 



RESISTOR ASSORTMENT 

1/4 W 5% and 10%. PC leads. 
A good mix of values. 200/S2 



j=OI»=j 




1000 MFD FILTER CAPS 

Rated 36 WVDC. Upright style with P.C. leads. 
Most popular value for hobbyists. Compare at up 
to $1 .19 each from franchise type electronic parts 
stores. S.D. Special 4 tor $1 



FAIRCHILD BIG LED READOUTS 

A big .50 inch easy to read character. Now available In either common anode 
or common cathode. Take your pick. Super low current drain, only 5 MA per 
segment typical. 



FND 
FND 



510 
503 



Common Anode 
Common Cathode 



YOUR 
CHOICE 

$l.50ea. 6 for S7.50 



DUAL 741C (5558) OP AMPS 

Mini dip. New house numbered units 

by RAYTHEON. 

4FORS1 



FET'S BY TEXAS INSTRUMENTS — SPECIAL 5 lor $1 

ffTIS-75 but with an internal house number. TO-92 plastic case. N. Channel, 
Junclion lypeFET. 



We do not sell )unk. Money back 
guarantee on every Item. No C.O.D. 
Texas Res. add 5% tax. Postage 
rales went up 30% ! Please add 5% 
of your total order to help cover 
shipping. 

ORDERS UNDER $10 
ADD 75c HANDLING. 



S. D. SALES CO. 

P.O. BOX 28810 
DALLAS. TEXAS 75228 




Photo 1. 



Systems of Note 



Here is a prototype for a new BYTE feature which will appear regularly 
when material becomes available from our readers. The purpose of Systems of 
Note is to document what kinds of systems are being developed and utilized 
by our readers, and how they are viewing the computer systems field as 
reflected in their choices of hardware and software components. As an 
example to illustrate the kind of short system description involved, I have 
written down a summary of my personal "BYTE #/ " system as it stands 
March 17 1976. 

Each reader whose system description is published in this feature will 
receive an honorarium of $25 as BYTE's contribution to help further the 
state of the art. . . . CH 



The BYTE #1 personal computing sys- 
tem is an M6800 processor built up into a 
general purpose computing system. The 
hardware of the processor, memory and 
peripherals is assembled with wire wrap 
prototyping cards available from Celdat De- 
sign Associates (Box 752, Amherst NH 
03031). Us present (and projected) state can 
be seen by the following hardware map: 

0000-00FF Page memory; addresses 
0000-000B reserved for soft interrupt 
vectors, stack starts at FF. 

0100-01 3F Bootstrap ROM area. Pres- 
ently has "soft" ROM made of 2102s 



and toggle switches which simulates 
two 8223s. 
0140 Keyboard Scanner (ASCII Upper/ 
Lower Case, home brew). 

0142 UART Control: TTY (110 baud) 
or tape (faster) rates; master reset, etc. 

0143 UART data. 

0144 8 bit output latch (now connected 
to programmable counter as a kluge 
musical instrument). 

014C-014F 32 bits of panel lamp latches 
on ASCII keyboard assembly. 

*0150-0153 PIA0 (16 bits of IO port). 

*01 54-01 57 PIA1 (1 6 bits of IO port). 

*01 58-01 59 ACIA (General TTL and 
RS-232 interface for surplus ITT 
ASCIScope). 

*015A ACIA data rate divide ratio trans- 
fer from PIA port. 
1000-1 FFF 4 K x 8 static 9102 memory. 

*2000-3FFF 8 K x 8 static AM9140ADC 
memory (16 chips). 

MOOO-EFFF Expansion area, 4K in- 
crements expected. 

FFF0-FFFF ROM interrupt hardvwed 
vectors, 8223 ROM. Reset vectors to 
location 0101 (low order bit is ROM 
burning mistake). All others vector to 



106 



SOLID 
STATE 
SALES 

Features 
Value 



SPECIAL PURPOSE 
TRANSISTORS 

INTEGRATED CIRCUITS 

HARDWARE 

+ 
P.C. SOCKETS 

SILICON POWER 
RECTIFIERS 

ZENERS 

TRIACS 

SCRS 

LIGHT EMITTING 
DIODES 

SPECIAL 

PURCHASE 

ITEMS 



WE HAVE AVAILABLE 

USED IBM SELECTRIC 

731 INPUT/OUTPUT 

TYPEWRITERS, 

WITH MANUALS FOR 
$350.00 



ALSO AVAILABLE USED 

KLEINSCHMIDTM-311 

PRINTERS 

THEY POINT AT THE 

RATE OF 

120 CHARACTERS/SECOND. 

$450.00 



VIDEO CAMERA KIT 



A UNIQUE ALL SOLID STATE CAMERA KIT 
FEATURING A ... 100 x 100 BIT 
SELF SCANNING CHARGED 
COUPLED DEVICE 



NCLUDES THE FOLLOWING 
UNIQUE FEATURES . . . 
FOUND IN FAR MORE 
EXPENSIVE CAMERAS 

F AVAILABLE 

• LOW VOLTAGE SUPPLV (OH 
BATTERiESI * SAND I 16 VOLT 

• SENSITIVE TO INTRA "ED AS 
WELL AS VISIBLE LIGHT 

• MAY BE USED FOR IF1 



EXCELLENT FOR STANDARD 
SURVEILLANCE WORK BECAU5 
OF ITS LIGHTWEIGHT AND 
SMALL SIZE 

ALL COMPONENTS MOUNTED 
ONT1VOPAHALLEL3-5" 
SINGLE SIDED BOAHfjS TOTAL 
WEIGHT UNDER ? LBS 



IPER UNBELIEVABLE ^p^ « 



MAY BE USED 
WITH AMATEUR 
RADIO FDR VIDEO 

USED FOR CHARAC- 
TER RECOGNITION 
FOR COMPUTERS 
WITH EXTERNAL 
CIRCUITS 

MAY BE USED IN 
A VACUUM, UN- 
DER WATER, HIGH 
ALTITUDE, AND 
IN MAGNETIC 
ENVIRONMENT 
BECAUSE THERE 
IS NO HIGH 
VOLTAGE OR 
MAGNETIC 
DEFLECTION 

WE SUPPLY ALL 
SEMICONDUCTORS, 
BOARDS, DATA SHEETS, 
DIAGRAMS, RESISTORS 
AND CAPACITORS 



SORRY, WE DO NOT SUPPLY 
THE CASE, BATTERIES 
IOR SUPPLY) THE LENS 
(NOT SUPPLIED) DEPENDS 
UPON THE USE 



INTEL 8080 CPU S29.50 

8008 8 BIT MICRO PROCESSING CHIP 

(with Data Book) S19.00 

2102-1 1024 BT RAM S 2.60 

5202A UV PROM SI 2.50 

MM5203 UV PROM SI 2.50 

1702A UV PROM S12.50 

5204-4K PROM S24.95 

MINIATURE MULTf-fURN TRIM" POfS 
100, 500, 5K, 10K, 25K, 50K. 100K, 200K 

S.75 s.ich 3/S2.00 

MULTI-TURK I TRIM ■ POTS Similar to Bourns 
3010 style 3/16"x5/B"v.1 -1/4"; 50, 100. 
IK. 10K.50Kohms 

S1 .60 ea. . _.^_ . . 3/S4.00 

LIGHT ACTIVATED SCR's 

TO-18.200V IA S 1.75 



PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARD 



4-1/2" X6-1/2" SINGLE SIDED EPOXY 
BOARD 1/16" thick, unetchcd 

$.50 oa 5/S2.20 

VECTOR BOARD 1" SPACING 

4.5"x6.5" SHEET SI. 50 



4 WATT IFt LASER DIODE $7.95 



5460 P FET S .45 

2N 5457 N FET S .45 

2N4391 UJT S .45 

TIS 43 UJT $ .35 

ER 900 TRIGGER DIODES 4/S1.00 

2N6028 PROG. UJT S .65 

VERIPAX PC BOARD 

Tliis board is a 1/16" single sided paper epuxv 
board, 4Vi"x6'/ 3 " DRILLED and ETCHED 
Which will hold up to 21 sinyle 14 pin IC's 
or 8, 16, or LSI DIP IC's with busses for 
power supply c onnec tor. . . . ^ . . . S5.25 

| MV 5691 YELLOW-GREEN 

BIPOLAR LED S1.25 

MT-2 PHOTO TRANS S .60 

RED, YELLOW, GREEN OR 

AMBER LARGE LED's , . . ea. $ .20 

14 PIN DIP SOCKETS $ .35 

16 PIN DIP SOCKETS $ .35 

MOLEXPINS 100/S1.00 

1000/S8.00 

8 PIN MINI DIP SOCKETS $ .30 

10 PIN "fO-5 TEFLON PC SOC KETS . S .60 
10 WATT ZENERS 3, 9,4, 7, 

18 OR 22V ea. S .60 

1 WATT ZENERS 4, 7, 5,6, 10, 1 2, 1 5, 

18 OR 22V ea. S .25 



F8 MICROPROCESSOR KIT^ 

WE'VE GOT THE F8 MICROPROCESSOR KIT, ONE 
OF THE MOST ADVANCED MCU SYSTEMS ON THE 
MARKET TODAY FOR ONLY fl.J CQnn 

5> l5y.UU 



1 ) Driven by a »5 and -*1 2 voli Rimer mpplv. 

31 Two I/O ports on the CPU chip. |nd ROM. making 32 hid 

3) 64 bytes of lasi RAM scratchpad bwll into The CPU chip. 



5) A programmable internal timer built 

6) 60% ol the instructions are I livio. 
71 TTL I/O compatibiliiv. 

Bl Consumes less then 300rmv of power 



e supply: 
1 3850 CPU 
1 ■ 385t A FAIR-GUG pro 
all its I/O subroutine. Bl 



and time sharing guide. 

4K MEMORY KIT S159.00 



into the ROM chip 



if 64 pages. 



1) 8 bit bidirectional port 
21 On board decoding lor 

3) Address buffered. 

4) 4K bytes of 2102-1 static RAM's. 

5) No on board regulation to cause heat problems 
The memory card, like our other computer cards. I 
(.156 spacing). This feature makes the system con 
service problems, and hard wiring. It will also alloi 
other cards when they become available. 

EXPANDER BOARD 

Individual power terminals far cm ' 

mpanctod to the fuii 64 kilobyte* 



is a 44 pin gold p 
ilctelv itackable t 
plug-in capability 



ty to 16 kilouvicst 
V by plugging other 



T WITH ONE EDGE CONNECTOR S59.00 Exi 



TRANSISTOR SPECIALS 

2N3585 NPN Si TO-66 S .95 

2N3772 NPN Si TO-3 S 1.80 

2N4901 PNP Si TO-3 S .85 

2N5086 PNP Si TO-92 4/S 1 .00 

2N4898 PNP TO-66 S .60 

2N404 PNP GE TO-5 5/$ 1.00 

2N3919 NPN Si TO-3 RF S 1 .50 

MPSA 1 2 NPN Si TO-92 3/$ 1.00 

2N3767 NPN Si TO-66 S .70 

2N2222 NPN Si TO-18 5/S 1 .00 

2N3055 NPN Si TO-3 S .80 

2N3904 NPN Si TO-92 5/S 1 .00 

2N3906 PNP Si TO-92 5/S 1.00 

2N5296 NPN Si TO-220 S .50 

2N6109 PNP Si TO-220 $ .55 

2N3866 NPN Si TO-5 $ .75 

2N3638 NPN Si TO-5 5/S 1.00 

2N651 7 NPN TO-92 Si 3/S 1 .00 



TANTULUM CAPACITORS 



.22UF3SV 5/S1.00 6.8UF 35V 3/S1.00 
.47UF 35V 5/S1.00 33UF 25V S .40 

.G8UF 35V 5/S1.00 30UF6V 5/S1 .00 
1UF35V 5/51.00 150UF20V S .50 

4.7UF35V 4/$1.0_0 „__„^__ 

CT700i "ALARM CLOCK CHIP . . ^$5.75 
FPA 71 1-7" LEVEL Diode Array Optical 
Tape Readers ^ „ . . S5.95 

NATIONAL MOS DEVICES 

MM1402 -3.20 MM5057-4.00 

MM 1403-3.20 MM5058-4.95 

MM1 404-2.50 MM5060-4.95 

MM5013- 7.75 rvlM5061 -4.30 

MM5016-3.50 MM5555-6.25 

MM501 7-4.75 MM5556-6.25 

MM5055-4.00 MM5210-1.95 

MM5056 -4.00 MM 5260 -2.9 5 



Silicon Power Rectifiers 



PRV 


1A 


3A 


12A 


50A 


125A 


100 


.06 


.14 


.30 


.80 




200 


,07 


.20 


.35 


1,15 


4.25 


400 


nq 


.25 


.50 


1.40 


6.50 


600 


1 1 


.30 


.70 


1.80 


8.50 


800 


is 


.35 


.no 


2.30 


10.50 


1000 


.20 


.45 


1.10 


2.75 


12.50 



REGULATED MODULAR 
POWER SUPPLIES 

- 15 VDC AT lOOma 

115VAC INPUT £27.9 

5VDC AT 1A. 115VAC INPUT . . . $24.9 

12 VDC AT .54 ._. £24.9 

IN 4148 (IN914) . . . ± ^ - . . 1 ~5/$1 .0 
2518-HEX~3~ 2~B1T SR . : . .___. _ . S6.0 
SILICON SOLAR CELLS' i'/I' Wlia "meter 
.5V at 500 ma. iii . S5J)0_ea.. 6/S27.5 
7 POLE 1 THROW TO 5 MINIATURE 

ROTARY SWITCH S .3 



Terms: FOB Cambridge, Mess. 
Send Check or Money Order. 
'- 'ude Postaae. Minimum 



; SERIES 

7483- 
7485- 
7486- 
7489- 
7490- 
7491- 
7492- 
7493- 
7494- 
7495- 
7496- 
74107- 
74121- 
74123- 
74125- 
74126- 
74150- 
74151- 
74153- 
74154- 
74155- 
74157- 
74161- 
74164- 
74165- 
74173- 
74175 - 
74177- 
74180- 
74181- 
74191- 
74192- 
74193- 
74194- 
74195- 
74196- 
75324- 
75491 - 
75492- 



74 LOO - 
7400- 
7401- 
7402 
7403- 
7404- 
7405- 
7406- 
7407- 
7408- 
7409- 
7410- 
7411- 
7412- 
7413- 
7414-1 
7416- 
7417- 
7420- 
7425- 
7426- 
7427- 
7430- 
7432- 
7437- 
7438- 
7440 
7441- 
7442- 
7445- 
7446-1 
7447- 
7448-1 
7472- 
7473- 
7474- 
7475- 
7476- 
7480- 



ALCO MINIATURE TOGGLE SWITCHES 

MTA 106 SPDT $1.20 

MTA 206 DPDT $1 .70 



C/MOS (DIODE CLAMPED) 

74C02- .30 4016- .60 4035-1.75 

74C01- .30 401/ 1.30 4042-1.00 

4001- .30 4018-1.40 4046-2.75 

4002- .30 4019- .60 4047-3.00 
4006-1.60 4022 1.40 4049- .75 
4007- .30 4023- .30 4050- .75 

4009- .60 4024-1.25 4055-1.95 

4010- .60 4025- .30 4066-1.10 

4011- .30 4027- .75 4071- .30 

4012- .30 4028-1.20 4077 .30 

4013- .50 4029-1.45 4081- .30 
4015-1.40 4030- .55 

LED READOUTS 

FND 500-.5"C.C $1.75 

HP 7740-.3" C.C S1.40 

MAN-4-.25" C.C $1.20 

MAN-7-.3" C.A ' ... $1.25 

DL747-.6" C.A SI .95 

NS 33-3 dig. array $1.35 



Full Wave Bridges 



200_ _ _ .95 1_i_25__ 2.00 

400 1 .15 130 _ _3.00_ 

600 _ 1.35 1 .75~ 4JXL 

CCTl 10 LINEAR 256 XI BIT'SELF 
SCANNING CHARGED COUPLED 
DEVISE ... ..... ...... $125.00 

SANKEN AUDIO POWER AMPS 

Si 1010 G 10 WATTS $6.90 

Si 1020 G 20 WATTS SI 3.95 

Si 1050 G 50 WATTS. L . ._^^^. ^S24.95 

LINEAR CIRCUITS 

LM309K 5V 1A REGULATOR . . . $1 .00 
723 - 40 + 40VV REGULATOR ... $ .54 

301 ,'748-Hi Per. Op. Amp S .35 

320T5. 12. 15, OR 24V 

NEGATIVE REG SI .35 

741 A or 741C OP AMP $ .35 

709c OPER. AMP $ .32 

307 OP AMP $ .25 

CA 3047 Hi Pcf. Op. Amp $ .95 

340T5, 6, 8, 12. 15, 18,24V POS 

REG. TO-220 $1.20 

101 OPER. AMP. HI PERFORM. ... $ .75 
LM 308 Oper. Amp., Low Power . . . S1 .05 

747 - DUAL 741 $ .65 

556 - DUAL TIMER $ .95 

537 - PRECISION OP. AMP $2.80 

540-70W POWER DRIVE $2.75 

LM 3900 - OUAD OP. AMP S .49 

LM 324 - QUAD 741 $1 .50 

560 - PHASE LOCK LOOP S2.50 

561 - PHASE LOCK LOOP S2.50 

565 - PHASE LOCK LOOP SI .50 

566 FUNCTION GEN S2.50 

567 - TONE DECODER S2.00 

LM 1310N FM STEREO DEMOD. . . S2.75 
8038 IC VOLTAGE CONT. OSC. . . S3.90 
LM370-AGC SQUELCH AMP. . .$1.15 

555 - 2ms - 2 HR. TIMER S .53 

553 OUAD TIMER S2.50 

FCD810 OPTO-ISOLATOR S .80 

1458 DUAL OP AMP S .55 

LM 330 - 2W AUDIO AMP S .95 

LM 377 - 2W Stereo Audio Amp. . . S2.50 

LM 381 - STEREO PREAMP SI .25 

LM 382 - DUAL AUDIO PREAMP .$1.25 
LM 31 1 - HI PER. COMPARATOR . S .95 
LM 319 - Dual Hi Speed Comp. ...$1.25 
LM 339 - QUAD COMPARATOR . S1 .40 



PRV 


1A 


10A 


25A 


1.5A 






100 


.40 


.70 


1.30 


.40 


.50 


1.20 


200 

400 
600 


.70 
1.10 
1 ,70 


1.10 
1.60 
2.30 


1.75 

2.60 
3.60 


.60 

1.00 


.70 

1.20 
1.50 


1.60 

2.20 
3.00 



Send 25tHor our catalog featuring 

Transistors and Rectifiers 

145 Hampshire St., Cambridge, Mass. 



SOLID STATE SALES 

P.O.BOX 74 B I 

SOMERVILLE, MASS. 02143 TEL. (61 7) 547-4005 



WE SHIP OVER 95% 

OF OUR ORDERS THE 

DAY WE RECEIVE THEM 




Photo 2A. 




Photo 2B. 



JMP instructions in locations 
0000-000B. In "run" mode, reset vec- 
tors to 0000 by switching ROM 
address bit. 
(* indicates construction in progress.) 
Peripherals at present include: surplus 
Teletype KSR 33, a modified BYTE 
standard tape interface (higher speed, 
higher density), the aforementioned pro- 
grammable counter "music synthesizer" 
and keyboard. Peripherals for inclusion in 
the near future include: 

• BYTE standard interface (from Harold 
Mauch). 

• Single channel music peripheral. 

• ASCISCOPE VDT as main control 
keyboard and console. 

Software at present includes the IMP 
(Interactive Manipulator Program) monitor, 
the Kluge Harp Version 2 Music Interpreter 
(features subroutines, calls, special functions 
such as trill, chromatic run, tempo change), 
and an income tax accounting program 
which tabulates amounts by category (2 
digit ASCII code). 

The present IMP 6800 program takes 
about 700 bytes and uses the panel lamp 
displays to show address (16 bits), data at 
address (8 bits) and the last 8 bits of the 
current hexadecimal encoded keyboard 
entry. Functions include memory editing 
and address pointer manipulations, block 
write, block read, block to block compare, 
tape to block verification, block move, block 
zap, formatted object code dump (pays 
attention to instruction length), call pro- 
gram, etc. Version 2 will augment the 
present panel display with outputs to the 
ASCIScope peripheral, giving much greater 
detail of internal control variable values. 

The most unusual peripheral of the 
system is an 8 by 4 feet (2.44 by 1.22 m) 
frame of wood suspended beneath the 
ceiling over the lab bench, with polyethylene 
plastic stapled to it. Purpose: prevent leaks 
due to ice buildup from soaking the 
processor. 

Photo 1 shows the current state of the 
system, spread out on the top of an old 
conference table purchased for "peanuts" at 
a traditional New England style bargain 
source. Photos 2A and B illustrate construc- 
tion details of the unique environmental 
protection unit which is expected to become 
obsolete in the near future when a house 
with sound roof is purchased to replace the 
present rented abode." 



108 



^CRYSTALS [Mr 

rilSJC THESE FREQUENCIES ONLY ^~4H_— 



Part P 
CY1A 
CY2A 
CY3A 
CY7A 
CY12A 
CY14A 
CYI9A 
CY22A 
CY30B 



Frequency 

1 000 MHz 

2 000 MHz 
J. 000 MHz 
5 000 MHz 

10 000 MHz 
14.31813 MHz 
IB 000 MHz 
20.000 MHz 
32.000 MHz 



Case/Style 

HC33/U 

HC33/U 

HC18.U 

HC18/U 

HCIB'U 

HC18U 

HC18/U 

HC18/U 

HC1&MJ 



"PFIce 
S4.95 
S4.95 
$4.95 
S4.95 
S4.95 
S4.95 
S4.95 
S4.95 
S4.95 



CLOCK CHIPS — CALCULATOR CHIPS 

MMS309 6 Oigit, BCD Outputs. Reset PIN ! 

MM5311 6 DiQlt, BCD Outputs, 12 or 2-1 Hdui 

MM5312 4 Digit, BCD Oulpuls. 1 PPS OutpQI 

MU5313 6 Digit. BCD Outputs. 1PPS Output 

MMS314 6 Digit. 12 or 2-1 Hour. 50 or GO Hz 

MM5316 4 Digit. Alarm. 1PPS Output 

MM531B VtOco Clock Chip. For Use With MU5B41 

CT7001 6 Digit. Calander. Alarm, 12 oi 24 Hour 
CALCULATOR CHIPS 

MM5725 6 Oigil. Fuji Function. LOSS Decimal 

MM5733 Si Digit 5 Function. + =. x. . % 

MM5739 8 Digit. 4 Function Floating Decimal 

CT5001 '2 Digit 4 Function 

CI5005 '2 Digit 4 Function with Memory 

CI5030 '2 Digit 4 Function and " a 

MISC. MOS 

MM5320 TV Camera Sync Generator S 

MM5330 i'i Digit DVM Chio 

MM5359 60 H/ Timeoase Circuit From 3 58 MHz 

MM5341 Vuleo Generator For UU531B 

UC1408-1' ' Bit Digital to Analog Converter 

MK5007 i Decade Counter with Latches 

LDU0LD111 3'.: Digit DVM Chip Set 

95H90 100 KHi iO Counter Fc Prescaters 



ta.oo 

9.95 
10 95 
25 00 



Continental Specialties 



PROTO BOARDS 

Build fi test circuits as last as you think 1 

PfllOO 10 Ccao breadboard kit -1 5 x 60 x t 35 

PB101 10 I4-D1P cap. 5-way post, 940 soldertess 

lie points 5 6x45 
PB10Z 12 14-DtP cap like PfllOl with 1.240 lie 

points 7 » 4 5' 

DIP cap . ■! 5-way posts 2.250 lie 



1104 



pnir 



, fi x 9 0" 



l- points 

' LOGIC MONITOR 

Simultaneously dis- 
plays static and 
dynamic logic stales 
. Of DTL. TTL, HTL or 
| CMOS DIP ICs 
J Pocket Size SB4.95 



PROTO-CLIP 
For power -on'tiantls- 
oil signal tracing 
Bring IC leads up liom 
PC board surface lor 

tast troubleshooting 

PCM 14-pin S4.50 
PC16 IS-ptn 4 lb 
SOCKETS A BUS STRIPS 

Plug-m wire test modify or expand without patch c 
or solrlei Snap together to torm breadboard needed 

PH Description L. Hole lo Hole Term'Is 

CJIS9S Socket 6 5 62 H8 

015913 Bus 6 5 6? 20 

QT47S Socket 5 3 5.0" 94 

(Jit?!' Bus 53 50 16 

rjT35S socket 4 1 3 3" 70 

QTlSBBus t I ' 3 8' '2 

QTiBS Socket 2 4 2 i 36 

QTI2S Socket 1 fl 15 24 

OToS Socket M" 1-1 '6 

QT7S Sotke! 13 10 14 



i&m- 



2.00 
475 

3 75 



■•BAN 



1/16 VECTOR BOARD 



64PM 0i2XXXP 
169PJ4 Q2XXXP 
B4P44 052 
B4P44 05? 
169P44 062 
169P84 062 
16SP44 0G2C1 



6.50 
17 00 
6.50 



PariN 



>. Finish 

Gold Tinned Post Size 

M4-1 144 025' sq 

146-t T46 o^.fi" sii 

T49A F-19 025 sg 



VECTOR TERMINALS 

25 pes 



SO pes 
Gold Tin Gold Tin 

! 50IDI 1.00 lot 2.75 lot 1.75101 
1 75 lot 1 25 lol 3. DO lot 2.25 lot 
1 75 lot 1 25 lot 3 .10 lol 2 .25 lot 



VECTOR WIRING PENCIL 

Vector WiruigPmr.il PI 73 consists ol a hand netd teat her weight (u id er one ounce} 
lool which M used D guide and wrap insulated wire ted oil a sell -con tamer) replaceable 
DobBin unto component leads oi terminals, installed on pre-punched "P" Pattern 
Vectorbord Cnuneclwns between the wrapped wire and component leads, pads or 
terminals are maile Dy soldering Complete wilti 250 FT of red wire 



S9.50 



REPLACEMENT WIRE — BOBBINS FOR WIRING PENCIL 
W36-3-A-Pkg. 3 250 ft 36 AWG GREEN S2.40 

W36-3-B.Pkg. 3 250 II 36 AWG RED S2.40 

W36-3-C-P*g 3 250 II 36 AWG CLEAR S2.40 

W36-3-D-Pkg. 3 250 II 36 AWG BLUE S2.40 



100 PER STRIP 



MOLEX PINS 



Intended lor use as an inexpensive sjbstitule (or IC 
sockels Also perfect for use as board connectors 
and in subassemblies .' 
SPECIAL— 100/1.49— 1D00/12.O0 



64 KEY KEYBOARD 



The ideal item lor the rea 
homebrew computer hobbyist 
This keyboard Iealures64 unen- 
coded SPSI keys, unattached lo 
any kind ol PC B A very solid 
molded plastic 13' i 4" base 
suits mosi applications 
S24.95ea. 




JOYSTICK 

These joysticks feature four 
TOOK potentiometers, thai vary 
resistance proportional to the 
angle of the stick. Sturdy metal 
construction with plastics 
components only at the mova- 
ble joint. Perfect tor electronic 
games and instrumentation. 

$9.95 ea. 



MICROPROCESSOR COMPONENTS 



8080A 
$37.95 



8080 SUPPORT DEVICES 



B080A 

2504 
2518 
2519 
2524 
2525 
2527 
2S29 
2532 
2533 
3341 
74LS670 

AY-5-1013 



8212 a Bl 
8224 CLO 
8228 SYS 

CPUS 
8 BIT CPU 
Super BOOS 
Super 8008 

SR'S 
1024 Dynamic 
He* 32 Bit 
He» 40 BIT 
512 Dynamic 
1024 Dynamic 
Dual 256 Bit 
Dual 512 Bit 
Duad 80 BIT 
1024 Sialic 
Filo 
16 « 4 Reg 

HART'S 
20K Baud 

ROMS 
Char Gen 
Random Bits 



UTPU1 


PORT FOR 8080 




S 5.95 


ATOR 


AND DRIVER FOR 8080 


12.95 


"ROLL 


R AND BUS DRIVER FOR 8080 


12.95 






RAM'S 






:-60l 256 x 1 


FAST 




S19 95 


HOI 256xt 


Static 




24 95 


1103 102x1 


Dynamic 




37.95 


2101 256* t 


Sialic 






2102 1024 x 1 


Static 




S 9 00 


2107 4095 x I 


Dynamic 




700 


?111 256<4 


Static 




4 00 


7010 1021 x 1 


MN05 




2,95 


7489 16 > 4 


Static 




6 00 


B101 256x4 


Static 




3.95 


81 1 1 256 x 4 


Static 




4 00 


8599 16 X 4 


Static 




3 95 


91L02 1024 x 1 


Static 




7.95 


74200 256 x 1 


Static 




6 95 


93410 256x1 


Sialic 




3 95 


5262 2043 x 1 


Dynamic 
I'ROMS 




S 6 95 


I'QjM m24x 1 


HPROM 






1 702A 2048 


Famos 






5203 2048 


Famos 






82S23 32 x 8 


Open C. 






82S123 32 x S 


Tristate 





8080 
S24.95 



SI5.95 
1 4 95 
5.00 



BUILD YOUR OWN JOLT MICROCOMPUTER IN JUST 3 HOURS 
OR LESS FOR $159.95 

A COMPLETE MICROCOMPUTER IN A SINGLE CPU KIT INCLUDES: • An MOS 

Technology MCS6502 NMOS microporcessor * 512 bytes of program RAM, and 64 
bytes of interrupt vector RAM • 1 K bytes of mask programmed ROM containing DEMON. 
a powerful debug monitor • 26 programmable I/O lines • Internal RC clock, or crystal 
controlled clock with user supplied crystal • Serial I/O ports for use with a teleprinter 
current loop drive/receiver, or an EIA standard driver/receiver • Expandable address and 
data buses • Hardware interrupt • Control panel interface lines available on card 
connector • Complete assembly manuals and sample programs 

JOLT ACCESSORY KITS 



JOLT RAM CARD — Fully sialic 4.096 bytes Of 
RAM with 1 microsecond access time and on- 
board decoding. 5199.95 

JOLT I/O Card (Peripheral Interlace 
Adapter) — 2 PIA LSI chips. 32 I/O lines, four 
interrupt lines, cm-board decoding and slandard 
TIL drive. Fully programmable. $95.50 
JOLT Power Supply — Operates al +5. +12 
and - 10 voltages. Supports JOLT CPU, 4K bytes 
of RAM and JOLT I/O card — or, CPU and 8 I/O 
cards. S99.95 

JOLT +5V Booster Option — Fils onto JOLT 
Power Supply card. Supports CPU, 8K bytes 
RAM and 8 I/O CPU and cards. S24.95 
JOLT Universal Card — Sames size [AW x 7 '), 
same form factor as other JOLT cards. Com- 



pleleiy blank, drilled to accept 14. 16, 24 or 40 pin 
sockets. 24.95 

JOLT Accessory Bag — Contains enough 
hardware to connect one JOLT card lo another. 
Hat cable, connectors, card spacers, hardware, 
etc. S39.95 

JOLT Resident Assembler — Fully symbolic, 
single pass resident assembler, all memonics 
compatible with timesharing assemblers. Deli- 
vered on four 1 702A PROMs. ready for plugging 
into JOLT PROM card. $149.95 
JOLT 1702A PROM Card — Sockets for 2.048 
bytes ol PROM memory. Place anywhere in 
memory wilh jumper selectable addresses. 
S99.95 



NOW: YOUR OWN VIDEO GAME FOR THE ENTIRE FAMILY 




This game comes pre-tested with two PROFESSIONAL Kraft |oysticks. Joysticks allow 2 dimensional 
player control (rather than only one dimension, such as up and down.) if you require more than two 
players, order extra joysicks. All that's required is a 5V/2A power supply, a harness, and speaker. 
Comes with schematics, wiring information, and all necessary documentation, Game gives 1V 
composite video output, perfect for any TV monitor, Game designed so one. Iwo, three, or lour 
players can play al the same lime. You can even play against the HOUSE. Score for each person is 
shown on TV-set. These boards are production over runs of a well known video game manufacturer. 
and are not rejects, or in anyway inferior to one presently being sold in games for over S1 ,000.00. 
KIT A — SI 79.95 PROFESSIONAL game PC board, and 2 PROFESSIONAL joysticks. PC. board 
size is 10V?" x 17". Tnisis the same PROFESSIONAL game as seen in commercial establishments, 
Dont't confuse it with the simple games sold in stores, or with analog kits. 
ACCESSORY B — S3. 95 Six feet of ribbon cable, three SPST switches (coin simulator, 
house/player, and start switch), for those of you who don't nave extra wire or switches to build the 
harness. 

ACCESSORY- C — S39.95 Two additional PROFESSIONAL Kraft joysticks, for third and fourth 
player. 



DIGITAL CLOCK KIT — 3 1 /2 INCH DIGITS 




4 DIGIT KIT S49.95 
6 DIGIT KIT S69. 95 



4 DIGIT ASSEMBLED S59.95 
6 DIGIT ASSEMBLED S79.95 



This clock feMurM lug 31ft' tiiqh digits 
lor viewing in ollices. auditoriums, etc 
Each digit is lorrned l>y 31 hriglil 0.2" 
LED's. The clock oner ales From 1 1 7 VAC. 
has either 12 or ?A M operation. The (i 
digit version Is 27"x3ft" x 1 W . ami Urn 
■I digit is !8" x3Vi" x \W Kits come 
complete with all components, case and 
translormer 
Specify 12 Or 24 Hr. When Ordering 



Satisfaction Guaranteed. SS.0Q Min. Order. U.S. Funds. 

Calitornia Residents — Add 6°° Sales Tax — Data Sheets 25c each 

Send a 13c Stamp (postage) for a FREE 1976 Catalog 

^4 MBS 

1021 HOWARD ST., SAN CARLOS, CA. 94070 
PHONE ORDERS — (415) 592-8097 



AUT0TEL ® 
WARNING LIGHTS ARE NOT ENOUGH 




AN AUDIBLE ALARM INDICATING 
POTENTIAL ENGINE DAMAGE 

AUT0TEI is an BfrecfBflt (15 ma ctmeni standby) dsvtcG by which every owner ol an 
aiitrimuhile, truck or vehicle equipped win indicator lights lor icmperalure and nil 
pressure can be assured ol a reliahle warning before an impending failure 
AtJTOTEL. by means of an audible signal 70 db pulsing) immediately forewarns the 
inhlcft nperator ol .1 malt unci ion or failure, allowing time to correct antt prevent major 
engine lailures. II is programmed so there is no sound during, normal operating 
conditions. 

AUTOTEL leatures CMOS ciicuitry, packaged in a Zft" sq. x ft" case. The kit mmes. 
complete wilh all components, tiardware and case to hook directly mlo your car's 
warning iiglit system 

$14.95 Assembled $9.95 Per Kit 



3 1 / 2 DIGIT DVM KIT 




This 0-2 VDC .05 per cent digital voltmeter features ttie Motorola 3'; digit 
DVM chip set. It has a ,4" LED display and operates (mm a single '-5V 
power supply. The unit is provided complete with an injection molded black 
plastic case complete with Bezel. An optional power supply is available 
which tits into the same caseas the 0-2V DVM allowing 117 VAC operation. 

A. 0-2V DVM with Case $49.95 

B. 5V Power Supply $14.95 




JE700 clock 

The JE 700 is a low cost digital rlork, hn 
is a very high quality unit The unit fea- 
tures a simulated walnui rase with di 
mensions ol 6" x 2'>' x 1 l| iiIiIihis ; 
MAN?? high brightness readoul. and tin 
MM5314 clock cl ' 



$19.95 



Liquid Crystal Temperature Display 

Six Digit Light qi 33 

Emitting Diode Disp | ay 

Display 

This clock makes an attractive addition to any desk. It has 
an extruded, black anodized aluminum case. II displays 
hours, minutes, and seconds with .11 inch displays, and 
comes complete with a liquid crystal thermomeler. It oper- 
ates oft 1 15 VAC at 50 or 60 Hz. S24.95 



•■ 2 : v 9 3 <• 



This large digit clock (.6 ' hours & 
minutes. .3" seconds) features the 
MM5314 clock chip. It operates 
from 117 VAC. and wilt operate in 
either a 12 or 24 hour mode. The 
clock is complete with a walnut 
grain case, and has fast set, slow 
set, and hold time set features. 

KIT - ALL COMPONENTS & CASE S34.95 
WIRED & ASSEMBLED S39.95 



JE803 PROBE 

tin I dqig Prude is a 11ml which is tor the moil pari 
ndsspenstble in trouble sfloolltifl logic families 
TTL Ml HTL CMOS It derives the po*er it- 
needs to operate directly oil ol the circuit undei 
drawing a scant 10 mrt ma> II uses a WM2 
ml to indicate any oi the following sta:es By 
Ihese symhots |M| ■ I iLGW) - <\ (PULSEi P The 
Prohi! cm detect hion IrequMcy pulses to 45MHz 
can I lie used al MOS levels or crrcuii dctrtaqe 
will result 



$9.95 Per Kit 

printed circuit board 



ELECTRONIC TOOLS 

OUICK CHARGE CORDLESS SOLDERING IRON 

fThis versatile tool weighs only six ounces, and can be 
operated without power anywhere. It gives the rier- 
«formance ot a 50 watt iron with a tip temperature of 
over 700°F It will solder an average ol 160 3 twist 
^j£g£2&. 72 guage wire jonts on one charge It has a charge 
.***?> . lime ot A hours, and heats in 5 seconds. Complete 

*' e *' 8W S29.95EACH 

NIBBLIMGT00L DIAGONAL CUTTEfT 

naming •» Vi" Semi-Flush Cul Fine Diagonal 



A 



A 



SOLDER 



Part No Wire Dia Price 1 lb Sonot 



6 8S Spool 

C.50.'Spool 




What's 

New? 





Vector Electronic Company sent BYTE this photograph of a new line of 
inexpensive wire wrapping tools which include the P160-4R power driver in 
the center of this photograph, plus accessories which enable the user to hand 
or machine wrap wire from 22 to 30 gauge on Wire wrap posts of several sizes. 
Priced at under $50 for the P160-4R hand held battery operated power 
driver, this family of tools provides one excellent low cost method of 
accomplishing wire wrap interconnection. For more information contact 
Vector Electronic Co Inc, 12460 Gladstone Av, Sylmar CA 91342, 
(213)365-9661. 



An M6800 for an Altair 8800, Anyone? 

Latest in the world of Altair compatible 
"peripherals" is this AM6800 board product 
announced by MRS, Hawthorne CA. The 
card plugs directly into any existing Altair 
8800 main frame (also, by implication, the 
various Altair compatible main frames from 
alternate sources) and is designed to allow a 
"hand off" of control between the 8080 and 
6800 CPUs, using a single instruction. The 
information BYTE received also states that 
there are no modifications required for use 
with an Altair 8800, and that the board will 
not interfere with the normal execution of 
the 8080. The board has been designed with 
attention to the speed of various memories 
available, so that it will operate with either 
fast or slow, dynamic or static memories 
available for the Altair. The 6800 CPU's 
status signals are brought out through 
jumpers to unused bus lines of the Altair 
backplane. 

This product looks like an ideal one for 
individuals who want to benchmark both 
processors for an engineering design com- 
parison, and for people engaged in profes- 
sional consulting work who need to have 
both CPUs around to handle customer pre- 
ferences. (When will MRS come out with the 
MOS Technology 6502 version?) MRS is 
located at PO Box 1220, Hawthorne CA 
90250." 



Computer Take Over . . . continued 

Jack Fostnaught, who owns a computer 
named RODNE (Robotic Omnipotent De- 
vice Not Entirely), had this story to tell of a 
computer's self serving mentality. It seems 
that a computer was installed in the Fourth 
National Bank Building in Wichita KS; its 
duties included, among other things, control- 
ling the air conditioning of the entire build- 
ing. One day two of the air conditioning 
units broke down necessitating a decision as 
to what part of the building could continue 
to be comfortably cool and what part would 
have to endure the heat. The computer 
thought things over briefly and then 
switched the remaining cooling power to its 
own room. 



110 




POWER SUPPLY MODULE 

New, plug-in module. Plugs into AC outlet 
provides 12 volts AC at % amp by two screw 
terminals. Great for various clocks, chargers, 
adding machines, etc. New 

$2.50 ea. 5/$11.00 



POWER SUPPLY 

LAMBDA 5VDC 74 AMP 

LV-EE-5-OV $125.00 



NJE 5/OUP-D5 



5 VDC 32 AMP 



$75.00 



CLOCK KIT $14.00 

Includes all parts with MM5316 chip, 
etched & drilled PC board, transformer, 
everything except case. 

SP-284 $14.00 each 2/$25.00 




ASCII KEYBOARD, brand new w/TI ASCII chip inplace & data $45.00 
COMPUTER GRADE LOGIC SUPPLY CAPS, BRAND NEW 



47,000 Uf 

32,000 

160,000 

66,000 

1,000 

2,000 



25V 

25 

10 

10 

60 

55 



$2.00 
1.75 
2.00 
2.00 
.90 
1.00 



ST 
ST 
ST 
ST 
AL 
AL 



1,000 
3,300 
1,600 
8,000 
500 



50 
35 
20 
16 
6 



'ST" screw top . 



.90 AL 
1.25 AL 

.60 AL 
1.25 AL 

.35 AL 
"AL" axial 



5 VOLT 1 AMP REGULATED power supply kit for logic work. All parts including 
LM-309K $7.50 



DUMMY LOAD RESISTOR, non inductive, 50 ohm 5 watt 
"AA" NICAD CELLS brand new, fine biz for handy talkies 



$1.25 ea. 



LINEAR by RCA, brand new, gold bond process 



301 

307 

324 

339A 

741 



> .60 

.52 

1.80 

1.60 

.50 



747 
748 
1458 
3401 
555 timer 



$ 



.82 
.50 
.96 
.80 
.60 



MM5314 
MM5316 
7001 



$1.00 
9/$9.00 



$3.00 
3.00 
8.00 



MEMORY SYSTEM $125.00 

New memory system by Honeywell, small . . . 
measures only 9x4x1 inches. 1024 core memory, 
1024 words with 8,9,10 bits/word. Random access, 
with all logic, register, timing, control, core select and 
sense functions in one package. New, booklet of 
schematics and data. Looks like a good beginning for 
a mini-computer. Limited supply on hand. 
Ship wgt 3 lbs. =SP-79 $125.00 







Ztp§ ■ J&& <. 



CORE MEMORY 

Another brand new memory, ultra small. Measures only 4x4 inches 
with format on one plane of 32 x 32 x 16 (16,384). Only about 35 
units of this on hand. 
#SP-81 $20.00 



y/fem^i^ 




FREE CATALOG SP-7 NOW READY 
Please add shipping cost on above. 

MESHNA P0 Bx 62 E. Lynn Mass. 01904 



m 



BITE 



reader 
service 



To get further information on the products advertised in BYTE, fill out the reader 
service card with your name and address. Then circle the appropriate numbers for the 
advertisers you select from this list. Add a 9 cent stamp to the card, then drop it in the 
mail. Not only do you gain information, but our advertisers are encouraged to use the 
marketplace provided by BYTE. This helps us bring you a bigger BYTE. 



A70 


American Microprocessor 65 


A38 


Intelligent Systems 63 




BYTE's Books 102 


A15 


James 99, 109 




BYTE Subscriptions 86 


A18 


Meshna 111 


A83 


Computer Mart of NY 65 


A71 


Micro Peripheral 87 


A76 


Computer Store 35 


A77 


Micro-Term 75 


A84 


Computer Systemcenter 65 


A57 


Mikos 75 


A87 


Creative Computing 63 


A20 


Mikra-D 95 


A41 


Cromemco 1 


* 


MITS 31,39, CIV 


A85 


Custom Design Services 65 


A62 


Morrow 95 


A7 


Delta 101 


A22 


National Multiplex 15 


A78 


Digital Group 13 


A63 


Parasitic 81 


A8 


Dutronics 73 


A23 


Polymorphic Systems 55 


A79 


Economy Co 73 


A24 


Processor Technology 56, 57 


A74 


Gnat Computers 81 


A26 


Scelbi 47 


A9 


Godbout 97 


A27 


S D Sales 105 


A69 


HAL Communications 53 


A59 


Solid State Sales 107 


A12 


IMS 37, cm 


A29 


Southwest Technical Products CM 


A86 


Info-Tech 33 


A30 


Sphere 27 


A60 


Interface 74 


A32 


Tri Tek 103 


'Reader service inquiries not solicited. 


Correspond directly with company. 



BCJlvlB: BYTE's Ongoing Monitor Box 

BYTE would like to know how readers evaluate the efforts of the authors 
whose blood, sweat, twisted typewriter keys, smoking ICs and esoteric software 
abstractions are. reflected in these pages. BYTE will pay a $50 bonus to the author 
who receives the most points in this survey each month. 



Page 

No. Article 

8 Lehman: Small Business Accounting System 
16 Gantt: Build a Television Display 
22 Herman: Programming for the Beginner 
28 Lett: High School Computer System 
32 Suding: Systems Approach to a Personal uP 
40 Abbott: Building an M6800 Microcomputer 
48 Hansford: Strike a MATCH 
58 Nelson: "Chip" Off the Olde PDP 8/E, Part 2 
66 Gable: Interact With an ELM 
76 Zarrella: Introduction to Addressing Methods 
82 Wadsworth: SCELBAL 



LIKED 

LEAST BEST 

01 23456789 10 

01 23456789 10 

0123456789 10 

01 23456789 10 

01 23456789 10 

0123456789 10 

0123456789 10 

01 23456789 10 

01 23456789 10 

0123456789 10 

0123456789 10 



March BOMB Winner 

Winner of the $50 prize for the most 
popular article in the March 1976 BYTE is 
Jack Hemenway's "The COMPLEAT Tape 
Cassette Interface." A close second was Don 
Lancaster's "Build the BIT BOFFER." In 
third place was William Manly's "Magnetic 
Recording for Computers." The deadline for 
receipt of J une BOMB evaluations is July 1 6, 
1976." 

Feel free to photocopy this or any other page if you wish to keep 



Continued from page 4 

Given this goal of maximizing sales, what 
better way to do that than to maximize the 
utility of the product to its users by engi- 
neering it to possess the greatest generality? 
For the main frame kit manufacturers, this 
means that providing the standards capabili- 
ty allows the customer to interface a wide 
range of specialized applications oriented 
peripherals with a minimum of trouble. For 
the peripherals manufacturer, this allows the 
product to be sold to the owners of all the 
central processors which provide the stan- 
dard interface, thus ensuring the widest 
possible market. 

The Standard — A Summary 

As the goal of parallel interface standards 
activities, there are three major technical 
points to consider: 

Logical Definitions: The standard 
should define the data, control and 
addressing lines which are part of the 
interface. This definition would also 
include recommended sequences for 
such common operations as input data 
transfer, output data transfer, inter- 
rupt handshaking, etc. 
Electronic Definitions: The standard 
should specify the physical parameters 
of the interface: logic level voltages, 
drive capacity, etc. 

Physical Definitions: The logical defi- 
nitions should be associated with the 
pinouts of one or more "recommend- 
ed" connectors. Connector choices 
specified in the standard will help 
make it a more usable definition by 
limiting the number of possible alter- 
natives. 
An important point to remember is that the 
purpose of the standard is to create a 
definition which is widely publicized and 
can be used as a reference point by engineers 
and users of the equipment. With a standard, 
variations from its definition can be fully 
documented without ambiguity. (I owe this 
point to Calvin Moerrs of Rockford Re- 
search Inc in conversation at the March 1976 
New England Computer Society meeting.) 

To help encourage work on standards for 
the personal computing field, BYTE is or- 
ganizing a technical session to be held at the 
Personal Computing '76 show in Atlantic 
City NJ August 28 and 29. A full page 
description of the standards session activity 
is found on page 5 of this issue. The par&UsA 
interface standard activities will form one of 
three areas of technical discussion identified 
at the time of this writing (March 26 
1976)." 

your BYTE intact. 



112 



If you thought a rugged, 
professional yet affordable 
computer didn't exist, 



think 
IMSAI 

8080. 



Sure there are other commercial, 
high-quality computers that can 
perform like the 8080. But their 
prices are 5 times as high. There is 
a rugged, reliable, industrial com- 
puter, with high commercial-type 
performance. And prices that are 
competitive with Altair's hobbyist 
kit. The IMSAI 8080. Fully assem- 
bled, it's $931. Unassembled, it's 
$599. And ours is available now. 

In our case, you can tell 
a computer by its cabinet. The 
IMSAI 8080 is made for commer- 
cial users. And it looks it. Inside 
and out! The cabinet is attractive, 
heavy-gauge aluminum. The 
heavy-duty lucite front panel has 
an extra 8 program controlled 
LED's. It plugs directly into the 
Mother Board without a wire 
harness. And rugged commercial 
grade paddle switches that are 
backed up by reliable debouncing 
circuits. But higher aesthetics on 
the outside is only the beginning. 
The guts of the IMSAI 8080 is 
where its true beauty lies. 

The 8080 is optionally 
expandable to a substantial system 
with 22 card slots in a single 
printed circuit board. And the 
durable card cage is made of 
commercial-grade anodized 
aluminum. The Altair kit only 
provides 16 slots maximum in four 
separate sections, each section 




requiring 200 solder connections. 

The IMSAI 8080 power 
supply produces a true 28 amp 
current, enough to power a full 
system. The Altair produces 
only 8 amps. 

You can expand to a 
powerful system with 64K of 
memory, plus a floppy disk con- 
troller, with its own on board 
8080 -and a DOS. An audio tape 
cassette input device, a printer, 
plus a video terminal and a 
teleprinter. These peripherals will 
function with an 8-level priority 
interrupt system. IMSAI BASIC 
software is available in 4K, 8K 




and 12K, that you can get in 
PROM. And a new $139 4K 
RAM board with software 
memory protect. 

Find out more about the 
computer you thought didn't 
exist. Get a complete illustrated 
brochure describing the IMSAI 
8080, options, peripherals, soft- 
ware, prices and specifications. 
Send one dollar to cover handling 
to IMS. The IMSAI 8080. From 
the same technology that developed 
the HYPERCUBE Computer 
architecture and Intelligent 
Disk systems. 

Dealer inquiries invited. 



Dept. B-6 




IMS Associates, Inc. 

14860 Wicks Boulevard 
San Leandro, CA 94577 
(415) 483-2093 




M,TS ALTAIR BBDB wow** 



