FEBRUARY  1976    $1.50 


the  small  systems  journal 


Processing  Algebraic  Expressions  • 
Color  Graphics  for  TV  Typewriters 
Computer  Megalomania? 


sally; 


Waam 


I 


*i^£§£«&""""sp 


It  seems  that  a  great  many  people 
came  to  the  same  conclusion  that  we 
did  here  at  SwTPC.  The  M6800  is  an 
outstanding  processor  and  makes  a 
great  computer  —  "BUT"  —  Not  all 
computers  using  the  M6800  pro- 
cessor are  the  same.  May  we  suggest 
that  you  consider  the  following  fea- 
tures when   you   make   your  choice. 

IT  IS  A  COMPLETE 
6800  SYSTEM? 

You  cannot  get  all  of  the  advan- 
tages of  the  6800  system  with  only 
the  processor  chip.  Unless  the  whole 
6800  family  of  chips  is  used  you  can- 
not possibly  get  all  of  the  versitility 
and  superior  performance  that  the 
system  is  capable  of  providing.  If  for 
instance  the  design  does  not  use  the 
MC6820  parallel  and  the  MC6850 
serial  integrated  circuits  for  interfac- 
ing, you  lose  the  programmable  inter- 
face feature  that  makes  it  so  easy  to 
interconnect  the  computer  system 
with  outside  devices  such  as  termi- 
nals, printers,  disks,  etc. 

IS  THE  SOFTWARE 
COMPATABLE  OR  UNIQUE? 

If  the  design  does  not  use  the 
"Motorola"  Mikbug®  ROM,  then  the 
software  and  programs  that  will  run 
on  the  system  are  probably  unique  to 


__— 1    COMPUTER 
5SJfif    6800    BVSTEM 


that  particular  brand  of  computer. 
SwTPC  uses  the  standard  Motorola 
MCM6830L7  ROM.  This  provides 
automatic  loading  and  an  operating 
system  that  is  compatable  with  other 
systems  using  the  standard  widely 
sold  Motorola  evaluation  set.  As  an 
owner  of  our  6800  computer  system, 
you  are  eligible  for  membership  in 
the  Motorola  Users  Group.  If  you 
join  you  have  access  to  a  library  of 
programs  that  will  run  on  your  sys- 
tem. Editor  and  assembler  programs 
are   available  directly  from   SwTPC. 

CAN  THE  SYSTEM  BE  EXPANDED 
AT  A  REASONABLE  COST? 

Some  of  the  limited  systems  be- 
ing offered  at  lower  prices  can  be 
expanded  only  with  difficulty.  Check 
the  amount  of  memory  that  can  be 
added  and  at  what  cost.  How  many 
additional  interfaces  can  be  added,  if 
any.  How  much  of  the  above  can  be 
run  off  of  the  power  supply  provided 
with  the  system?  The  SwTPC  6800 
can  be  expanded  up  to  16K  words  of 
memory  in  the  standard  cabinet  and 
with  the  power  supply  provided.  It 
may  also  be  expanded  up  to  eight 
interface  (I/O)  boards  for  external 
devices  by  simply  plugging  in  the 
cards.  Memory  is  $125.00  for  each 
4,096  words  of  expansion  and  inter- 


face cards  are  only  $35.00  for  serial 

or  parallel  types. 

Memory  expansion  will  be  essen- 
tial if  you  ever  intend  to  use  a  resi- 
dent assembler,  or  higher  level  lan- 
guages such  as  APL  or  BASIC  on 
your  system.  Assembler  programs 
typically  require  a  minimum  of  4,096 
words  of  memory  and  higher  level 
languages  require  even  more. 

HOW  DO  YOU  ENTER 
AND  READ  DATA? 

Let's  hope  it  is  by  way  of  a  TTY, 
or  video  terminal.  No  one  with  a 
serious  computer  application  would 
consider  attempting  to  enter  data 
from  a  switch  and  status  light  con- 
sole. These  may  be  educational,  but 
they  sure  aren't  practical.  Calculator 
keypads  and  digital  readouts  are  not 
much  better.  There  is  no  substitute 
for  a  full  alphanumeric  keyboard  and 
terminal  system  display  for  serious 
work. 

Mikbug®  is  a  registered  trademark  of 
Motorola  Inc. 


Computer    System 
with  serial  interface  and  2,048  Words 
of  memory $450.00 


□  Enclosed  is  $450  for  my  SwTPC  Computer  Kit       □  Send  Data 

□  or  BAC #  

□  or  MC Ex  Date 


ADDRESS 


CITY  STATE  ZIP 

Southwest  Technical  Products  Corp.,  Box  32040,  San  Antonio,  Texas  78284 


In  the  Queue 


Foreground 

KEYBOARD  MODIFICATION   16 

Surplus— Macomber 

LEDs  LIGHT  UP  YOUR  LOGIC   54 

Techniques— Gray 

BUILD  A  TTL  PULSE  CATCHER 58 

Test  Equipment— Walde 

DRESSING  UP  FRONT  PANELS   60 

Techniques— Walters 

Background 

MY  DEAR  AUNT  SALLY 18 

Algorithms— Grappel 
PROCESSING  ALGEBRAIC  EXPRESSIONS    26 

Algorithms— Maurer 
DATA  PATHS 32 

Hardware— Liming 
THE  NEW  ALTAIR  680    42 

New  Product— Vice 

HOW  TO  SAVE  THE  BYTES 46 

Man-Machine  Interface— Mclntire 
MORE  ON  THE  SWTPC  6800  SYSTEM    50 

New  Product— Kay 

TV  COLOR  GRAPHICS 62 

Hardware—  Lancaster 
COULD  A  COMPUTER  TAKE  OVER? 76 

Speculation— Rush 

Nucleus 

In  This  BYTE 2 

Join  the  Club 4 

Letters 10 

Our  New  Offices 14 

BYTE's  Bits 31,  83 

Chips  Found  Floating  Down  Silicon  Slough 41 

Classified  Ads 61 

BYTE    magazine    is  published  Numbers 69 

monthly    by    BYTE    Publica-  Clubs   Newsletters    70 

tions.  Inc.,  70  Main  St,  Peter- 
borough,     New      Hampshire  Audio  Cassette  Standards  Symposium 72 

03458.   Subscription  rates  are 

$12  for  one  year  worldwide.  View  From  Silicon  Valley    74 

Two   years,  $22.  Three  years,  „__„  „     _     .    —.  .  „, 

#30.  Second  class  postage  ap-  8080  Op  Code  Table    84 

plication  pending  at  Peterbor-  _  _  __ 

ough  New    Hampshire    03458  Book  Reviews 92 

and  at  additional  mailing  of-  an  a/id  or 

fices.     Phone     603-924-7217.  DUMB    30 

Entire       contents       copyright                   tup  BYTE  Questionnaire  Q6 

1976  BYTE  Publications,  Inc.  I  TO  DT  I  C  uuestionnaire MO 

Peterborough  NH  03458.  Ad-  Reader's  Service 96 

dress  editorial  correspondence 
to  Editor,  BYTE,  70  Main  St, 
Peterborough   NH  03458.  New  BYTE  phone:  603-924-7217 


BITE  #6 


FEBRUARY  1976 


P.  14 


p.  32 


•  •  •  *  ! 

it         AS         ** 

II  ,  '  ^ 

d   ESQ 

P.  42 


p.  50 


DISPLAY 
QUEEN 


p.  62 


In  This  EITE 


How  does  a  computer  evaluate  a  complicated  mathematical  BYTE  has  published  a  few  examples  of  LEDs  used  in  test 
expression?  There  are  many  ways  to  accomplish  this  function,  probes  and  diagnostic  equipment.  In  his  article  E.  W.  Gray 
One  technique  is  to  use  the  My  Dear  Aunt  Sally  Algorithm  provides  some  basic  information  on  the  use  of  LEDs.  After 
which  is  described  by  Robert  Grappel.  incorporating  his  suggestions  you  can  have  LEDs  Light  Up 

Your  Logic  in  more  ways  than  one. 


There  is  more  than  one  way  to  Process  Algebraic  Expres- 
sions, of  course.  In  his  article  on  the  subject,  W.D.  Maurer 
describes  the  Bauer-Samelson  algorithm,  which  uses  an  oper- 
ator stack  and  an  operand  stack  to  parse  algebraic  expressions. 

How  do  bits  get  from  one  place  to  another?  The  design  of 
Data  Paths  to  convey  information  is  an  important  con- 
sideration in  any  system.  Gary  Liming  provides  some  back- 
ground information  on  the  subject. 


MITS  makes  a  6800  product,  too.  James  B.  Vice  of  MITS 
describes  his  company's  design  in  an  article  on  The  New  Altair 
680. 

Hard  copy  can  be  created  in  many  ways.  Its  purpose  is  to 
record  information  in  a  form  which  humans  can  interpret 
unaided.  In  How  to  Save  the  Bytes,  Thomas  Mclntire  proposes 
a  multiple-segment  character  set  which  might  be  useful  for  an 
inexpensive  print  mechanism. 

Gary  Kay  continues  a  presentation  of  information  on  the 
Southwest  Technical  Products  Corporation's  6800  system 
which  was  begun  in  BYTE  No.  4.  This  month's  installment 
presents  information  about  the  memory  boards,  serial  inter- 
face, control  interface,  parallel  interface,  power  supply  and 
case.  The  information  is  completed  with  a  short  discussion  of 
available  software  and  future  additions  to  the  system. 


One  way  to  monitor  digital  data  lines  is  simply  to  drive  an 
LED  based  upon  the  steady  state  of  the  line.  But  what  if  you 
are  dealing  with  occasional  pulses?  A  simple  indicator  is  the 
TTL  Pulse  Catcher  described  by  Bill  Walde,  a  test  instrument 
which  can  be  built  from  one  IC,  one  LED,  two  switches  and 
two  resistors. 


How  do  you  generate  graphics  patterns  for  TV  raster 
scanning?  One  answer  is  provided  by  Don  Lancaster's  discus- 
sion of  Color  Graphics  Techniques. 


Could  a  Computer  Take  Over?  Ed  Rush  provides  us  with 
some  thoughts  on  the  subject  with  ample  references  to  the 
speculative  fiction  of  computer  technology.  We'll  let  readers 
draw  their  own  conclusions. 


Getting  Information  from  Joysticks  and  Slide  Pots  is  a 
problem  which  must  be  solved  for  interactive  game  purposes. 
One  solution  to  the  problem  is  shown  in  this  issue. 


And  on  the  cover,  artist  Robert  Tinney  shows  My  Dear 
Aunt  Sally  at  work  tutoring  a  computer  on  the  subject  of 
interpreting  arithmetic  expressions. 


Lowest  Price  in  the  World! 


In  January  of  1975,  MITS  stunned  the  computer  world  with 
the  announcement  of  the  Altair  8800  Computer  that  sells  for 
$439  in  kit  form. 

Today  MITS  is  announcing  the  Altair  680. 

The  Altair  680,  built  around  the  revolutionary  new  6800 
microprocessor  chip,  is  the  lowest  priced  complete  computer  on 
the  market.  Until  December  31, 1975,  this  computer  will  be  sold 
in  kit  form  for  the  amazing  introductory  price  of  $293!  (A 
savings  of  $52!) 

The  Altair  680  comes  with  power 
supply,  front  panel  control  board, 
and  CPU  board  inclosed  in  an 
11"  wide  x  11"  deep  x4  11/16"  case. 
In  addition  to  the  6800  processor, 
the  CPU  board  contains  the  following: 

1.  1024  words  of  memory  (RAM 
2102  type  1024  x  1-bit  chips). 

2.  Built-in  Interface  that  can 
be  configured  for 
RS232  or  20  mA 
Teletype  loop 
or  60  mA 
Teletype. 

3.  Provisions  for 
1024  words  of 
ROM  or  PROM. 

The  Altair  680  can  be 
programmed  from  the  front 
panel  switches  or  it  can  be 

connected  to  a  computer  terminal  (RS232)  or  a  Teletype  such  as 
an  ASR-33  or  surplus  five-level  Baudott  Teletype  (under  $100). 

The  Altair  680  can  be  utilized  for  many  home,  commercial  or 
industrial  applications  or  it  can  be  used  as  a  development  system 
for  Altair  680  CPU  boards.  With  a  cycle  time  of  4  microseconds, 
16-bit  addressing,  and  the  capability  of  directly  addressing 
65,000  words  of  memory  and  a  virtually  unlimited  number  of 
I/O  devices,  the  Altair  680  is  a  very  versatile  computer! 

Altair  680  Software 

Software  for  the  Altair  680  includes  a  monitor  on  PROM, 
assembler,  debug,  and  editor.  This  software  is  available  to  Altair 
680  owners  at  a  nominal  cost. 

Future  software  development  will  be  influenced  by  customer 
demand  and  may  include  BASIC  on  ROM.  MITS  will  sponsor 
lucrative  software  contests  to  encourage  the  rapid  growth  of  the 
Altair  680  software  library.  Programs  in  this  library  will  be  made 
available  to  all  Altair  680  owners  at  the  cost  of  printing  and 
mailing. 

Contact  factory  for  updated  information  and  prices. 

Altair  Users  Group 

All  Altair  680  purchasers  will  receive  a  free  one  year 
membership  to  the  Altair  Users  Group.  This  group  is  the  largest 
of  its  kind  in  the  world  and  includes  thousands  of  A/tairSSOOand 
680  users. 

Members  of  the  Altair  Users  Group  are  kept  abreast  of  Altair 
developments  through  the  monthly  publication,  Computer 
Notes. 


Altair  680  Documentation 

The  Altair  680  kit  comes  with  complete  documentation 
including  assembly  manual,  assembly  hints  manual,  operation 
manual,  and  theory  manual.  Assembled  units  come  with 
operation  and  theory  manuals.  Turnkey  model  and  CPU  boards 
also  include  documentation. 

NOTE:  Altair  680  manuals  can  be  purchased  separately. 
See  back  page  of  this  catalog  for  prices. 

Delivery 

Personal  checks  take  2-3  weeks  to 

process  while  money 
orders  and  credit  card 
purchases  can  be 
processed  in  1-3  days. 
Delivery  should  be 
30-60  days  but  this 
can  vary  according  to 
order  backlog.  All 
orders  are  handled 
on  a  first  come,  first 
served  basis. 

Altair  680  Prices 

Altair  680  comp\ete  computer  kit  ....  $293 
($345  after  December  31, 1975) 

Altair  680  assembled  and  tested    $420 

Altair  680T turnkey  model  (complete  Altair  680  except 

front  panel  control  board)  Kit  Only  $240 

($280  after  December  31, 1975) 
Altair  680  CPU  board  (including  pc  board,  6800  micro- 
processor chip,  1024  word  memory,  3  way  interface 

and  all  remaining  components  except 

power  supply)  $180 

($195  after  December  31, 1975) 

Altair  680  CPU  board  assembled  and  tested  $275 

Option  I/O  socket  kit  (required  when  interfacing 

680  to  external  devices)  $   29 

Option  cooling  fan  (required  when  expanding 

680  internally)  $16 

($22  after  December  31, 1975) 

Option  cooling  fan  installed    $   26 

PROM  kit  (256  x  8-bit  ultraviolet,  erasable 

1702  devices)   $42 


Creative  Electronics 

Prices,  delivery  and  specifications  subject  to  change. 


Join  the  Club 


BITE 

staff 


PUBLISHERS 

Virginia  Peschke 
Manfred  Pesch  ke 

EDITOR 

Carl  T.  Helmers,  Jr. 

GENERAL  MANAGER 

Manfred  Peschke 

PRODUCTION  MANAGER 

Judith  Havey 

PRODUCTION  ASSISTANT 

Beth  Alpaugh 

CIRCULATION 

Deborah  R.  Luhrs 

ADVERTISING 

Virginia  Peschke 

TYPOGRAPHY 

Custom  Marketing  Resources,  Inc. 

Goodway  Graphics 

PHOTOGRAPHY 

Ed  Crabtree 

Custom  Marketing  Resources,  Inc. 

DRAFTING 

Bill  Morello 

PRINTING 

Custom  Marketing  Resources,  Inc. 

The  George  Banta  Company 

ASSOCIATES 

Hal  Chamberlin 

Dan  Fylstra 

Don  Lancaster 

Chris  Ryland 


I  found  an  interesting  quotation  in  the 
Wall  Street  Journal  in  a  recent  front  page 
news  analysis  on  the  subject  of  philan- 
thropy. The  theme  of  this  quotation  is  the 
American  heritage  of  forming  voluntary 
associations  for  specific  purposes. 

"Americans  of  all  ages,  all  stations 
in  life,  and  all  types  of  disposition 
are  forever  forming  associations," 
wrote  Alexis  de  Tocqueville  in  the 
1830s.  "Americans  combine  to 
give  fetes,  found  seminaries,  build 
churches,  distribute  books  and  send 
missionaries  to  the  antipodes.  Hospi- 
tals, prisons  and  schools  take  shape 
that  way.  ...  If  (Americans)  want  to 
proclaim  a  truth  or  propagate  some 
feeling  by  the  encouragement  of  a 
great  example,  they  form  an 
association."  (Wall  Street  Journal, 
November  26,  1975.) 

This  thought  provides  a  timeless  introduc- 
tion to  the  latest  manifestation  of  that 
trend,  the  formation  of  computer  associa- 
tions and  societies  for  the  purposes  of 
advancing  the  personal  use  of  small  systems 
technology. 

To  paraphrase  an  appropriate  definition 
in  Webster's,  a  society  is  a  group  of  in- 
dividuals who  elect  to  associate  with  one 
another  for  a  common  interest  or  purpose, 
and  who  meet  periodically  to  help  advance 
that  interest  or  purpose.  Fine.  This  concept 
of  society  could  equally  well  be  applied  to 
groups  ranging  from  a  regular  Saturday  night 
beer  drinking  circle  to  a  specialized  scientific 
association.  How  does  it  apply  to  our  com- 
mon interest  in  the  technology  of  small  scale 
computing?  Some  thoughts  on  the  subject 
are  the  substance  of  this  month's  editorial. 

Information,  Friendship  and  Trade 

Defining  the  purpose  of  an  association  is 
probably  the  most  important  task  to  be 
accomplished.  The  beer  drinking  circle  has  a 
purpose   assented    to   by  all    its   members: 


Editorial  by 
Carl  Helmers 

drinking  beer,  talking  and  relaxing  at  the  end 
of  a  week's  activity.  The  scientific  associa- 
tion has  its  purpose  too:  exchanging  infor- 
mation, arguing  and  debating  fine  points 
which  can  lead  to  productive  experiment, 
and  socializing  with  compatriots  in  the  same 
field  of  endeavor. 

So  what  is  the  purpose  of  an  association 
of  computer  experimenters?  At  the  risk  of 
omitting  something  (to  be  corrected  by 
reader  feedback,  no  doubt)  I've  made  a 
tentative  list  of  common  purposes  which  are 
the  defining  interests  of  computer  societies. 
The  list  contains  3  items: 

Information  —  about  computers  and  their 
use. 

Friendship  —  fraternizing  with  other  in- 
dividuals in  the  field. 

Trade  —  exchanging  equipment  and  learn- 
ing about  what  is  available. 

In  making  this  list,  I  draw  upon  examples 
provided  by  the  similar  activities  of  scientific 
and  engineering  societies  as  well  as  numerous 
hobby  societies  in  fields  like  audio  reproduc- 
tion, amateur  radio,  radio  controlled  models, 
amateur  astronomy  and  model  railroading. 
Not  to  be  omitted  of  course  are  the  begin- 
nings of  similar  associations  in  the  small 
systems  field  (more  on  that  a  bit  later). 

Information 

The  information  activities  of  a  computer 
society  can  be  one  of  the  most  important 
reasons  for  establishing  these  organizations. 
Information  comes  in  many  forms.  Given 
the  idea,  what  are  some  of  the  possibilities 
for  specific  activities  to  be  arranged  by  a 
computer  society's  education  and  informa- 
tion committee?  I  can  think  of  a  few  and  list 
them,  but  will  make  no  pretension  that  this 
is  a  complete  or  final  list. 

Application  reports.  Small  computer 
systems  can  be  used  for  a  variety  of  pur- 
poses. One  important  activity  of  the  com- 
puter society  is  the  exchange  of  ideas  and 
concepts  on   applications  of  the  machines. 


LOOK  k 
WHAT 
WE'VE 


Wlflf 
PlflCIl 


Fast  &  Easy 

FROM  VECTOR. . .slashes  time  of  point-to- 
point  wiring;  eliminates  Cutting  to 
length,  stripping,  and  crimping! 
36  ga.  wire  has  special  insulation 
that  melts  when  heated.   With  1 
red,  1  green  bobbin  of  wire. 

As  reviewed  in  the 
December  1975  issue 
of  Popular  Electron- 
ics. Add  shipping 
for  1  pound. 


$9.SC 


OK,     all     you    wire     pencil     fanatics,     we've   got    replace- 
ment  wire   bobbins.      Specify   RED,    GREEN,    BLUE,    or   CLEAR. 


BILL  GODBOUT  ELECTRONICS 
BOX  2355,  OAKLAND  AIRPORT,  CA  94614 


t  itmtns ;  1 


s$ut 


A  medium  current  (150  ma  per  side) 
supply,  designed  for  economy  and 
stability.  Uses  a  dual  tracking 
regulator;  short  proof  and  ther- 
mally limited.  Perfect  for  op  amp 
and  other  applications  requiring 
±15  volts.  $9.95  +  shipping  for 
2  lbs.   Less  case  and  hardware. 


TERMS:  Add  50«  to  orders  under  $10; 
add  shipping  where  shown.  NO  CODs ! 
Cal  res  add  tax.  Mastercharge®  or 
Bankamericard®:  call  (415)  357"7007 
IK   hours  a  day.  , 

11  voir.  %  amp 


Idea!  for  powering  automotive  equipment 
also  makes  a  dandy  lab  supply.   Better  than 
.05V  regulation,  indefinite  short  protec- 
tion, adjustable  output  ll-l^t  volts,  cur- 
rent limits  at  13  amps.   Kit  complete  but 
less  chassis  and  hardware.  A  BEST  SELLER 


Easy  &  Fast 


MkL 


mm 


This  kit  provides  dual  tracking 
regulated  output  voltages,  both 
(+)  and  (-)  referenced  to  ground, 
from  under  1  volt  to  more  than 
+18  volts  DC.  Short  circuit  pro- 
tection, thermal  limiting,  etc. 
Kit  doesn't  include  case  or  hard- 
ware. Get  one  for  $10.95  plus  2 
lbs   shp.      Up   to    150   ma   per   side. 


NEW  AND  IMPROVED 

F1KED  l"2  BI1P 


Regulated,  short-proof,  thermally 
limited.  iA  continuous,  or  1  amp 
intermittent.   Specify  5,  8,  or 
12  volt  model. Less  ease&hrdwre 


.^SSY^Tp   TOO^g5 


WHY 
SOLDER  YOUR 
PROTOTYPES? 

Wire  wrapped  connections  protect  components  from  heat,  are 
easily  modified  for  corrections  or  changes,  make  connec- 
tions that  are  better  than  solder,  and  can  speed  up  the 
time  required  for  complex  digital  projects.  If  the  high 
cost  of  wrapping  tools  puts  you  off,  look  at  ours;  you 
get  the  tool  (rechargeable  so  you  don't  have  to  deal 
with  trailing  cords  in  tight  places),  bit,  charg- 
er, nicads,  and  instructions. 


o 


plus  2  lbs.  SHIP 


fi 


&@®RW 


klt(/) 


*A  kK   EROM  IC---similar> 
"to  the  5203,  but  twice  the  cap- 
acity. Fully  programmable;  erasel 
with  UV  light." 


■■■  ^^  ^^^^  acity.  i-uliy  progr« 

5204$2450 

^^    ^™     ^*^  STATIC— NON- 


2102*  s 


STATI  C— N0N-V0LAT I  LE= 
VERSATILE! 


THE   SPECIAL   CONTINUES! 
Guaranteed 
faster    than 
750   ns. 


5558  5/$1.95 


So  you've  got  yourself  a  mi crocomputer . . .only  to  find  out  you  need  soft- 
ware to  run  it  efficiently.   Give  your  8080  editor,  assembler,  and  moni- 
tor routines  with  our  8080  Software  Board.   $225  brings  you  '(kbytes  of 
programmed  Eraseable  Read-Only  Memory,  dedicated  to  making  happier  8080s. 
...Or  maybe  you  have  your  own  software.   Don't  load  it  in  your  RAM;  put 
it  in  one  of  our  unprogrammed  EROM  boards.   A  2Kx8  board  is  $125;  a 
l(Kx8,  $200;  and  8Kx8,  $352.   Add  1 3S  to  any  of  the  above  boards,  and 
we'll  program  it  according  to  your  specifications. 

What  do  all  our  EROM  boards  have  in  common?  DIRECT  PLUG-IN  COMPATIBILI- 
TY WITH  THE  ALTAIR  8800,  as  well  as  sockets,  Industrial  quality  plated 
through  boards,  ultra-low  power  consumption,  buffered  inputs  and  outputs, 
and  lots  of  bypassing.   Includes  full  instructions  and  logic  print. 

We  haven't  forgotten  you  RAM  fans,  either.   Our  AK  x  8  RAM  kit  of- 
fers DIRECT  PLUG-IN  COMPATIBILITY  WITH  THE  ALTAIR  8800,  as  well 
as  the  usual  high-quality  board,  bypassing,  sockets,  buffered 
addresses  and  outputs,  500  ns  access  at  25°Ctyp.  FULL  INSTRUC- 
TIONS and  logic  print  included.  ENJOY! 

4KX8Rr1MklT 


k 


The  information  activities 
of  a  computer  society  can 
be  one  of  the  most  impor- 
tant reasons  for  establish- 
ing these  organizations. 


When  a  person  or  informal  project  group  has 
spent  some  time  developing  some  aspect  of 
the  use  of  the  systems,  a  report  in  the  form 
of  an  informal  lecture  followed  by  question 
and  answer  sessions  is  a  very  good  activity 
for  both  the  person  giving  the  lecture  and 
the  rest  of  the  membership. 

Show  and  Tell.  This  is  a  specialized 
version  of  the  application  report,  in  which 
the  society  member  giving  the  report  brings 
along  some  examples  of  equipment  to  talk 
about.  Ideas  for  this  kind  of  activity  abound. 
Do  you  want  to  see  what  an  Altair  looks 
like?  Have  an  Altair  owner  give  a  demo  some 
meeting.  Do  you  want  to  see  what  a  home 
brew  microprocessor  comes  out  like?  Have 
the  person  who  has  put  together  one  of  the 
contemporary  microprocessors  show  off  the 
result  some  evening. 

Elementary  Courses  Anyone?  There  is 
much  interest  in  learning  the  elements  of 
computer  technology.  Knowledge  of  the 
technology  does  not  grow  on  trees,  and 
personal  interaction  with  people  possessing 
such  knowledge  is  an  excellent  way  for 
novices  to  obtain  the  required  information. 
One  way  to  disseminate  such  information  is 
for  a  computer  society  to  schedule  "Novice 
Nights"  devoted  to  talks  on  topics  in  compu- 
ters chosen  to  teach  new  information  to 
people  without  extensive  computer  back- 
grounds. The  novice  whose  primary  skills  lie 
outside  computer  areas  is  obviously  in- 
terested in  this  type  of  talk  and  can  benefit 
greatly. 

But  even  the  advanced  persons  in  the 
field  can  benefit  since  specialization  is  so 
common  in  these  days  of  high  technology. 
The  person  with  a  background  in  hardware 
design  (the  nuts  and  bolts  of  computers)  is 
likely  to  benefit  from  elementary  lectures 
given  by  an  experienced  software  person. 
The  software  person,  on  the  other  hand,  can 
benefit  greatly  by  learning  elementary  infor- 
mation from  the  hardware  person.  Here  is  an 
obvious  trade  of  information  and  ideas 
between  two  parties  (the  third  party  of  the 
less  experienced  person  can  gain  from  either 
type  of  lecture).  The  act  of  preparing  such 
talks,  whether  formally  or  informally,  re- 
quires thought  on  the  part  of  the  lecturer  in 
order  to  review  and  organize  material.  This 
in  itself  is  useful  activity  and  benefits  the 
speaker  by  adding  to  his  or  her  skills  and 
experience. 

One  benefit  of  bringing  the  novice  up  to 
speed  in  the  intellectual  activities  of  the 
computer  world  is  that  it  enables  all  prac- 
titioners in  the  field  to  take  advantage  of  the 
greatest  multiprocessor  system  of  them  all,  a 
civilization  of  active,  educated  and  goal- 
seeking  individuals.  While  these  benefits  are 


not  immediate,  there  is  long  term  value  in 
getting  people  to  know  the  technology.  It 
helps  increase  the  potential  for  innovation 
and  invention  as  more  and  more  people  learn 
to  use,  manipulate  and  create  using  the  tools 
of  computing. 

Technology  Updates.  Sessions  of  interest 
to  many  people  are  those  devoted  to  infor- 
mation on  new  computer  technology.  Such 
lectures  combine  tutorial  information  of 
interest  to  novices  with  advanced  informa- 
tion on  the  new  ways  of  doing  old  problems. 
For  example,  in  a  lecture  on  one  of  the  new 
bipolar  microcontroller  chips,  it  is  almost 
certain  that  the  advanced  person  would  learn 
about  the  system  architectures  of  con- 
ceivable machines  and  the  types  of  instruc- 
tions sets  that  could  be  implemented.  The 
novice  at  the  same  time  would  probably  pick 
up  some  notion  of  what  a  microprogrammed 
machine  is,  and  what  it  takes  to  make  one. 

Special  Interest  Groups.  Whenever  two  or 
more  people  share  a  common  goal  which  is  a 
subset  of  the  whole  small  systems  computer 
world,  there  is  potential  for  a  special  interest 
group  to  be  formed.  The  reason  for  such  a 
group  could  be  a  particular  type  of  processor 
and  its  techniques  of  use,  it  could  be  a 
particular  application  area  such  as  model 
trains,  radio  controlled  models,  music, 
amateur  radio  networks,  etc.,  and  it  could 
even  be  an  interest  in  a  side  issue  such  as 
computer  science  fiction  stories.  A  computer 
society  can  provide  the  coordination  needed 
to  bring  such  special  interests  together,  by 
making  announcements  at  meetings,  by 
putting  information  in  newsletters,  etc. 

Workshop  sessions,  question  and  answer 
sessions  and  other  interactive  learning  situa- 
tions. There  is  no  reason  that  a  learning 
session  has  to  be  a  one  way  street.  Work- 
shops (the  computer  society  equivalent  of  an 
undergraduate  laboratory  course)  are  a  way 
to  intensively  concentrate  upon  one  aspect 
of  the  small  systems  field.  This  could  include 
programming  workshops  for  learning  soft- 
ware principles,  and  hardware  implementa- 
tion workshops  concentrating  upon  fabrica- 
tion and  testing  of  elements  of  the  computer 
systems.  One  of  the  most  useful  activities 
which  a  computer  society  could  consider  as 
a  regular  meeting  feature  would  be  the 
question  and  answer  session.  Such  a  proce- 
dure can  be  very  productive.  Simply  appoint 
one  person  as  a  moderator,  who  will  then 
search  the  meeting  room  for  raised  hands 
indicating  a  query.  After  restating  the  ques- 
tion over  the  PA  system  (if  any)  the  modera- 
tor would  then  ask  for  a  volunteer  to 
provide  information  on  the  question.  If  the 
local  computer  society  is  full  of  bashful 
persons,  the  questions  could  be  handled  in 


SOFTWARE  - 

■  ■■■■■■is  the  best  thing  to  feed  your  computer!  Makes  it  healthy!  Gets  rid  of  that  dull,  aimless,  blinking 
lights  expression  so  many  small  systems  exhibit  these  days.  Feed  your  machine  SOFTWARE!  Make  it  feel  good. 
Machine  will  then  perform  services.  That  will  make  YOU  feel  good.  Put  your  machine  on  a  good  SOFTWARE  diet 
like  some  of  the  following  CHOW! 

ASSEMBLER  PROGRAMS  FOR  THE  '8  0  0  8' 
Discusses  a  "minimum  length"  Assembler  program  that  can  reside  in  2K  of  memory,  plus  a  more  sophisticated 
version  for  those  who  have  additional  memory  and  desire  a  more  powerful  version.  Included  in  this  manual  is  a 
thorough  explanation  of  the  fundamental  concepts  of  an  assembler's  operation,  details  on  how  to  format  the 
"source  listing,"  step-by-step  analysis  and  presentation  of  subroutines,  program  flow  charts,  and  assembled  listings  of 
the  programs!  Price?  A  very  reasonable  $1  7.95. 

AN  '8  0  0  8'  EDITOR  PROGRAM 
Describes  variations  of  an  "Editor"  program  that  can  reside  in  2K  of  memory.  Additional  memory  may  be  used  to 
increase  the   size  of  the  text  buffer.  The  program  enables  one  to  manipulate  "text"  in  order  to  create  "source 
listings"  or  perform  other  kinds  of  text  preparation.   Includes  discussion  of  routines,  flow  charts,  and  assembled 
listing.  Priced  at  just  $14.95. 

'8  0  0  8' MONITOR  ROUTINES 
Describes  a  "Monitor  Control"  package  that  allows  you  to  control  the  operation  of  your  computer  from  an  external 
"keyboard"  device.  Various  routines  enable  you  to  examine  and  modify  memory  locations  and  CPU  registers,  set 
"breakpoints"  and  execute  programs  for  "debugging"  purposes,  control  bulk  storage  I/O  devices,  and  perform  other 
useful  functions.  This  manual  comes  complete  with  subroutine  explanations,  flow  charts,  and  an  assembled,  highly 
commented  program  listing.  Low  priced  at  just  $1 1 .95. 

NEW!  -  FOR  HUNGRY  8080  MACHINES! 
AN  '8  0  8  0' ASSEMBLER  PROGRAM 

This  assembler  program  utilizes  some  of  the  unique  routines  we  utilized  in  our  popular  '8008'  assembler  which 
enables  us  to  provide  an  '8080'  assembler  that  operates  comfortably  in  4K  bytes  of  RAM  (including  the  symbol 
table).  An  unusual  feature  of  this  assembler  program  is  that  it  has  been  designed  to  accept  mnemonics  closely  related 
to  those  used  by  SCELBI  for  our  '8008'  based  machines.  What  this  means  is  that  programs  originally  written  for  an 
'8008'  unit  can  be  directly  processed  by  this  assembler  to  produce  object  code  for  an  '8080'  machine!  NEAT!  Of 
course,  it  also  handles  the  extended  instruction  set  of  the  '8080'  as  well.  This  program  is  provided  in  our  popular 
style  of  a  manual  that  discusses  the  major  routines,  presents  pertinent  flow  charts,  and  includes  a  highly  commented 
assembled  listing.  $17.95. 

AN  '8  0  8  0'  ED /TOR  PROGRAM 
This  is  essentially  a  "carbon  copy"  of  the  material  in  our  earlier  manual  describing  a  '8008'  Editor,  except  the 
assembled  listing  is  provided  with  the  machine  code  for  an  '8080.'  It  is  a  good  deal  at  $14.95. 

'8  0  8  0'  MONITOR  ROUTINES 
These  routines  perform  the  same  types  of  functions  as  described  above  for  the  '8008'  version  except  routines  were 
specifically  developed  to  utilize  the  extended  capabilities  of  the  '8080'  instruction  set.  Great  price  at  just  $1 1.95. 

WANT  TO  "SPOON  FEED"  YOUR  MACHINE? 

You  CAN  learn  how  to  develop  your  own  machine  language  programs.  And,  if  you  are  really  serious  about  utilizing  a 
small  system  effectively,  you  had  better  plan  on  learning  something  about  it  sooner  or  later!  Here  is  a  good  way  to 
get  started. 

MACHINE  LANGUAGE  PROGRAMMING  FOR  THE 
'8  0  0  8'  (AND  SIMILAR  MICROCOMPUTERS) 
THIS  manual  was  written  to  provide  the  reader  with  the  detailed  knowledge  one  needs  to  know  in  order  to 
successfully  develop  machine  language  programs.  This  information  packed  publication  discusses  and  provides 
numerous  examples  of  algorithms  and  routines  that  can  be  immediately  applied  to  practical  problems.  Virtually  all 
the  techniques  and  routines  illustrated  in  the  manual  can  also  be  applied  to  other  similar  microcomputers  such  as 
"8080"  systems  (by  applicable  machine  code  conversion).  The  price  of  this  exciting  new  manual  is  a  low  $19.95. 
(The  floating-point  arithmetic  package  presented  in  the  publication  is  worth  that  price  alone!) 

Prices  given  are  for  domestic  delivery  at  book  mailing  rate.  Add  $2.50  for  each 
publication  if  PRIORITY  air  service  desired  (U.S.J  Overseas  include  $6.00  for  each 
publication  for  airmail  service. 

(Pricing,  specifications,  availability  subject  to  change  without  notice.) 

Order  direct  from:  1322   REAR       BOSTON  POST   ROAD 

ffllRI    fOMDIITFD     deptbf 

CoVuillM.   INC.       MILF0RD    C0NNECTICUT  °646° 


True  computer  hackers  are 
noted  for  being  slightly 
strange,  above  average  in 
intelligence,  and  in  general 
somewhere  off  on  the 
slopes  of  some  multidi- 
mensional probability  dis- 
tribution surface  of  human 
characteristics. 


written    form    but  it  would   be   better  all 
around  to  use  oral  methods. 

Prerecorded  lectures  and  seminars.  Every 
time  a  computer  society  has  a  talk  on  a 
subject  of  any  sort,  a  good  policy  would  be 
to  record  the  talk  and  have  several  people 
take  notes  on  any  visual  materials.  It  will 
then  be  possible  for  the  lecture  to  be 
replayed  for  later  use  by  individuals  who 
missed  the  first  presentation.  Such  proce- 
dure also  lends  itself  to  exchanges  between 
computer  societies  and  could  become  a 
major  activity  of  a  national  personal  com- 
puting society.  This  kind  of  policy  would  be 
particularly  beneficial  to  local  groups  in 
areas  remote  from  such  current  hotbeds  of 
activity  as  Los  Angeles,  San  Francisco,  Den- 
ver and  Boston.  (More  on  computer  associa- 
tions at  a  national  level  appears  a  little  later 
in  this  editorial.) 

Friendship 

One  of  the  reasons  which  make  special 
interest  societies  form  and  flourish  is  the 
common  human  need  to  associate  with 
people  of  similar  interests.  True  computer 
hackers  are  noted  for  being  slightly  strange, 
above  average  in  intelligence,  and  in  general 
somewhere  off  on  the  slopes  of  some  multi- 
dimensional probability  distribution  surface 
of  human  characteristics.  This  eccentricity 
does  not  mean  an  absence  of  the  same  needs 
to  interact  and  talk  about  common  interests 
which  are  characteristic  of  humans  in 
general.  In  fact,  the  social  aspects  of  the 
neighborhood  computer  group  are  very 
important  because  who  else  would  listen  and 
converse  with  as  much  enthusiasm  as 
another  hacker? 

The  computer  society  thus  serves  a  useful 
function  as  a  framework  in  which  to  meet 
people  on  a  basis  of  common  interest.  This 
immediately  establishes  a  more  friendly 
atmosphere  and  helps  minimize  the  usual 
psychological  barriers  to  making  new 
acquaintances.  (You  don't  go  out  on  the 
street  and  accost  the  nearest  person  to  talk 
about  your  favorite  CPU  chip;  if  you  do, 
you  might  run  certain  risks  in  today's  state 
of  civilization.)  The  selection  function  which 
is  the  computer  society's  common  interest 
definition  guarantees  that  you  have  a  high 
probability  of  a  meeting  of  the  minds. 
Sharing  the  common  interest  helps  loosen  up 
conversation  and  create  new  acquaintances. 

Trade 

While  it  is  often  fashionable  in  conven- 
tional intellectual  circles  to  look  down  upon 
commerce  and  trade  with  a  petty  moralistic 
disdain,  the  value  of  trade  and  commerce  is 
obvious  to  any  person  who  uses  the  results 
of  modern  technology.  Trade  and  commerce 


can  enter  into  the  computer  society  in 
several  ways. 

Perhaps  the  most  fundamental  way  in 
which  trade  and  commerce  become  an 
activity  of  the  computer  society  is  in  the 
traditional  "flea  market"  or  "garage  sale" 
sessions  of  such  technological  social  gather- 
ings. If  I  wanted  to  unload  a  spare  gate  or 
two,  the  place  to  do  so  would  be  at  a 
meeting  of  fellow  experimenters.  The  way  it 
is  done  is  this:  each  person  who  has  some 
spare  or  surplus  personal  equipment  brings 
that  equipment  and  engages  in  some  old 
fashioned  person  to  person  bargaining  in  the 
course  of  looking  for  a  buyer.  (By  the  way,  a 
computer  group  can  and  should  generate 
part  of  its  financial  inputs  by  asking  for  a 
commission  upon  such  flea  market  trans- 
actions. A  commission  of  several  percent 
would  probably  be  appropriate.) 

Trade  can  be  fostered  at  computer 
society  convocations  by  making  arrange- 
ments for  manufacturers'  representatives  to 
come  with  short  talks  and  demonstrations  of 
their  products.  As  long  as  such  demonstra- 
tions are  carried  out  in  a  spirit  of  informa- 
tion gathering  and  "show  and  tell"  nothing 
but  good  can  come  of  it.  By  providing  this 
sort  of  platform,  society  members  can  get  a 
first  hand  look  at  the  wonderful  new  gadgets 
and  kits  manufacturers  supply  for  them. 

The  computer  society  idea  can  also  be 
used  to  achieve  a  price  break  for  members 
on  equipment  which  is  expensive  in  single 
unit  quantities.  Virtually  any  manufacturer 
will  provide  a  quantity  discount  at  certain 
levels  of  volume.  The  societies  take 
advantage  of  this  by  pooling  orders  for 
expensive  equipment  (two  examples  are 
floppy  disks  and  hard  copy  terminals)  then 
purchasing  the  items  with  the  usual  OEM 
(original  equipment  manufacturer)  discounts 
for  quantity  purchasing.  This  same  concept 
can  apply  to  a  number  of  items  which  are 
virtually  unavailable  through  other  channels 
due  to  price  or  a  manufacturer's  disinterest 
in  servicing  small  orders.  Such  activity  also 
can  finance  a  computer  society's  activities 
through  a  percentage  fee  (SCCS  asks  2%  on 
their  group  purchases).  The  concept  does 
not  have  to  apply  solely  to  large  orders  for 
exotic  equipment.  It  can  also  be  applied  to 
certain  parts  and  printed  circuits  which  can 
be  ordered  by  a  local  group  in  sufficient 
quantity  to  justify  the  price  breaks. 

Toward  a  National  Personal  Computing 
Society? 

All  the  reasons  which  make  a  computer 
society  a  useful  item  to  have  around  one's 

Continued  on  page  95 


5  WAYS  TO  STOP 

WASTING  TIME  IN 

ELECTRONICS. 


IStop  wasting  your  time  soldering.  Save 
hours  of  soldering,  desoldering,  re- 
soldering  with  QT  sockets  and  bus 
■  strips.  Connect  and  disconnect 
resistors,  capacitors,  transistors,  IC's  etc., 
literally  as  fast  as  you  can  push  in 
—or  pull  out— a  lead.  Make 
instant  interconnections 
with  short  lengths  of  wire. 
And  interlock  sockets 
and  bus  strips  for 
infinite  expand- 
ability on  bench, 
chassis,  plug-in  cards, 
etc.  At  $2. 00-12. 50?  you'll 
wonder  how  you've  done 
without  them! 

2     Stop  wasting 
your  time  design- 
ing circuits.  Design 
■  Mate™1  will  help,  by 
providing  you  with  QT  hookup  versa- 
tility (see  above),  a  continuously-variable 
5-15V,  600mA  1%-regulated  supply,  and  a 
voltmeter  to  monitor  supply  or  circuit.  Plug 
it  in,  turn  it  on  and 

start  designing  more 
by  soldering  less.  At 
$49.95?  you  can 
afford  to. 


Stop  wasting 
your  time  testing. 

On  DIP  IC's, 
Ifindingthe  lead 

you  want— and  making  sure  you  don't  short 

others— can  be  as  delicate  as 

surgery.  Until  you  discover 

our  handy  Proto-Clip™        ll( 

...the  instant,  short- 
proof  way  to  test  IC's 

up  to  24  pins. 

Available  without  cable  or 

with  cable,  they're  the  most 

economical  and  foolproof  IC 

test  aids  on  the  market. 


4 


Stop  wasting  your  time  bread- 
boarding.  Small  budgets  or  big 
requirements  are  no  obstacle  to 
I  owning  and  enjoying  today's  most 


popular  solderless  breadboarding  system 
...our  Proto-Board*  line.  For  just  $15. 95? 
you  can  have  our  PB-6  Proto-Board  kit. 
Takes  about  10  minutes  to  assemble, 
and  gives  you  630 
solderless  QT 
terminals.  On  the  other 
end  of  the  spectrum 
is  our  giant  PB-104, 
with  3,060 
solderless 
terminals 
for  $79.95? 
|:.k  or  only  2.6$  apiece!  You  can 

:-:%T:,.  choose  from  a  variety  of  models, 

0&>      with  or  without  regulated  power 
supplies. 

5    Stop  wasting  your 
time  testing. 
You  can  own  the  test  gear  you 
■  need  at  economical 
prices.  Our  Design  Mate  2,  for  instance, 
gives  you  a  3-waveform  function 
generator- 
sine,  square  and  triangle— from 
1  Hz  to  100  kHz...  for  just 
$64.95* 
Design  Mate  3 
R/C  bridge  pro- 
vides 5%- 
accurate 
measurements 
of  unknown  resistors 
and  capacitors  from  10  ohms 
to  10  meg  and  10  pF  to  1  uF,  with 
built-in  LED  null  indication.  Price  is  a  "micro' 
$54.95?  And  as  you're  reading  this,  we're 
busy  adding  new  low-priced,  high- 
quality  Design  Mates. 

Stop  wasting  your  time  reading.  Send  for 
the  complete  CSC  catalog  and  dis- 
tributor list . . .  and  start  making  more  of 
yourtime  in  electronics. 

•Manufacturers  recommended  retail. 

CONTINENTAL  SPECIALTIES  CORPORATION 


I  1975  Continental  Specialties  Corp. 


44  Kendall  Street.  Box  1942 

New  Haven.  CT  06509  •  203-624-3103  TWX:  710-465-1227 

West  Coast  office:  Box  7809,  San  Francisco,  CA 

94119  «415-421-8872  TWX:  910-372-7992 

Canada:  Len  Finkler  Ltd.,  Ontario 


NEVER  YOU  MIND 


OCCUPANT 
BOX  BYTE 
PETERBOROUGH 
NH    03458 


EVEN  CATS  LIKE  BYTE 

Last  week  my  cat  tore  up  my  copy  of 
BYTE  Number  3,  the  November  issue.  I  had 
not  been  able  to  finish  reading  it  before  this 
happened  and  I  desperately  need  a  new  copy 
of  this  issue. 

Richard  Straedey 
Madison  Wl 


tion,  complete  with  personal  paging,  and 
telephone  answering  services.  We  also  need 
to  retrieve  short  messages  which  we  may 
have  stored  for  a  T.A.S.  or  telephone  cus- 
tomer. The  majors  have  a  program  for 
portions,  but  not  for  nearly  all  of  it,  and 
with  my  very  limited  knowledge  of  the 
subject  I  cannot  consider  our  own  program! 
One  of  the  lesser  known  majors  had  a  demo 
system  up  and  running  at  a  recent  inter- 
national convention  —  aimed  at  our  market 
—  and  was  SWAMPED  with  interested  pros- 
pects. I  am  surprised  that  someone  else  does 
not  come  forth  in  the  same  area  with  a 
better  system  (theirs  was  very  basic!),  since 
the  interest  and  market  is  there.  I  would  be 
most  interested  in  a  possible  assist  to  some- 
one working  in  this  area  at  this  time. 

Keep  up  the  journal  —  some  of  it  is  too 
deep,  but  all  is  interesting! 

Duane  L  Williams 

Custom  Radio  Inc 

Caspar  WY 


ON  FILLING  VACUUMS 

...  I  am  100%  in  agreement  with  your 
editorial  in  the  December  issue,  concerning 
"what  this  country  needs,"  and  certainly 
agree  with  Mr.  Ryland  that  there  is  a  BIG 
vacuum  in  the  software  area!  If 
the  microprocessor/minicomputer  companies 
can't  get  together  on  a  fairly  universal 
language  and  instruction  set  they  will  never 
be  more  than  a  toy.  (By  the  way,  PLEASE  — 
unless  you  are  serious  —  delete  the  reference 
to  the  "world's  greatest  toy,"  "ultimate 
toys"  and  stay  with  "the  small  systems 
journal!")  A  pointfor  reference  would  be  the 
railroad  systems  —  until  they  compromised 
on  a  standard  gauge  they  were  not  a  viable 
entrant  into  the  transportation  marketplace. 
I  feel  the  same  is  true  of  the  small  systems 
manufacturers. 

Our  particular  application,  for  which  we 
have  not  been  able  to  get  a  satisfactory 
solution  from  the  "majors,"  is  accounting, 
inventory,  billing  (from  time  and  charges 
entered  manually  and  by  either  punch  paper 
or  cassette  from  other  automatic  terminal 
equipment),  payroll,  payables  and  possibly 
some  other  information  concerned  in  a 
mobile  telephone  sales  and  service  organiza- 


BASIC  ISSUES 

BYTE  is  fine.  I  am  enjoying  it  —  and 
learning  a  few  things.  Just  received  the 
December  issue.  I  must  take  issue  with  your 
editorial  in  the  December  issue,  however, 
ragarding  your  discussion  of  shortcomings  of 
BASIC. 

It  would  seem  to  me  that  your  knowledge 
of  BASIC  is,  perhaps,  somewhat  out  of  date 
or  else  you  have  some  very  restricted  "defi- 
nition" in  your  mind  of  what  constitutes 
BASIC.  In  particular,  I  refer  you  to  the  HP 
3000  BASIC  Interpreter  Manual. 

In  regard  to  argument  and  parameter 
linkages  as  stated  in  your  editorial,  the  HP 
3000  BASIC  with  ten  deep  nested  GOSUBs 
doesn't  seem  to  me  to  be  "too"  primitive; 
but  beyond  that  the  HP  3000  BASIC'S 
multi-branch  GOSUB  (i.e.,  GOSUB  integer 
expression  OF  statement  label,  statement 
label,  statement  label  .  .  .)  hardly  seems 
primitive  at  all,  with  essentially  no  limit  to 
the  number  of  branches. 

In  addition,  the  defined  functions,  where 
both  single  line  and  multi-line  forms  exist 
(see  section  VI  of  the  HP  3000  BASIC 
manual)  provide,  I  believe,  all  of  the  GOSUB 


10 


capability  and  more  without  (I  think)  the 
nesting  limit  since  functions  can  be  "called" 
within  a  function. 

With  regard  to  parameter  passing,  refer  to 
the  HP  3000  BASIC  manual  pages  6-10  to 
6-12,  passing  parameters  by  reference  or 
value.  With  regard  to  the  IF-THEN-ELSE 
and  DO-END  constructs,  see  the  HP  3000 
manual  section  on  conditional  statements 
beginning  at  page  2-25.  We  have  there: 

a.  IF  expression  THEN  statement  label 

b.  IF  expression  THEN  statement 

c.  IF  expression  THEN  DO  statement  list 
.  .  . DOEND 

and  further, 

"The  IF.  ..THEN  statements  can  be 
followed  by  an  ELSE  statement  to  specify 
action  in  case  the  value  of  the  expression  is 
false.  Like  THEN,  ELSE  can  be  followed  by 
a  statement,  a  statement  label,  or  a  series  of 
statements  enclosed  by  DO  .  . .  DOEND." 

My  apologies  for  not  sending  along  a  few 
pages  from  my  HP  3000  Manual.  At  any 
rate,  I  think  your  editorial  does  not  present 
an  accurate  picture  of  today's  [HP  3000] 
BASIC  and  its  capabilities,  and  would 
suggest  that  you  rectify  this  in  a  future 
editorial  after  looking  into  it. 

In  my  opinion,  BASIC  is  far  and  away  the 
best  high  level  language  around  for  most 
purposes,  and  particularly  for  engineering, 
statistical  or  mathematical  purposes. 

So  that  you  know  where  I'm  "coming 
from,"  let  me  say  that  I  have  no  connection 
whatsoever  with  HP,  other  than  owning  an 
HP  calculator  and  having  occasional  access 
to  an  HP  3000  system  at  work. 

Thanks  for  your  "ear"  and  for  a  good  job 
with  BYTE. 

Robert  E  Booth 
Santa  Clara  CA 


You  make  good  points,  Robert,  but  omit 
one  important  fact:  an  extended  BASIC 
such  as  HP  3000  BASIC  is  no  longer  the 
portable  language  shared  in  common  by 
several  implementations.  If  you  want  to 
write  BASIC  programs  which  can  be  run  on 
any  (or  most)  BASIC  interpreters,  you  must 
restrict  your  programs  to  those  BASIC 
features  found  as  a  common  denominator  of 
all  your  intended  BASIC  implementations.  A 
standard  is  a  standard.  For  example,  the 
number  of  changes  required  to  transport  an 
ANSI  I  standard  FORTRAN  IV  program 
from  one  manufacturer's  implementation  of 
FORTRAN  IV  to  another  is  very  small  (but 
not  zero)  provided  programming  is  kept  to 
that  standard.  If  you  use  the  (highly  desir- 
able) extensions  of  HP  3000  BASIC,  then 
you  limit  the  use  of  your  programs  to  HP 
3000  BASIC  unless  extensive  modifications 


are  allowed  in  the  process  of  transporting 
programs  from  one  machine  to  another. 

However,  your  enthusiasm  for  BASIC 
does  prove  one  important  point  —  any  high 
level  language  is  better  than  none  at  all.  As 
tools  to  aid  in  design  and  debugging  of 
software  and  algorithms,  languages  like 
BASIC  are  an  immense  improvement  over 
the  use  of  lower  level  programming 
techniques. 


720  INFO  WANTED 

This  is  an  out  and  out  letter  of  praise.  I 
have  waited  a  few  months  so  as  not  to 
contribute  to  the  deluge  of  mail  you  must 
have  received  at  the  start,  and  also  in  case  it 
is  slacking  off,  to  let  you  know  it  is  still 
great.  What  more  can  I  say  that  has  not  been 
said  before?  Perhaps  only  that  BYTE  was 
just  what  /  needed  at  this  time. 

Quite  often  when  someone  gets  involved 
in  a  subject  of  great  interest  he  feels  that  he 
is  the  only  one  in  the  world  interested  in  it. 
BYTE  has  shown  that  this  is  not  true  in 
personal  computers. 

I  attended  MITS  ALTAI R  caravan  semi- 
nar the  other  day  and  found  an  excited, 
involved  mob  of  computer  hobbyists  who 
are  as  serious  about  this  as  I  am. 

While  my  only  interest  is  in  the  pro- 
gramming and  use  of  computers  in  problem 
solving,  I  applaud  your  excellent  mix  of 
articles  that  approach  the  computer  from  all 
sides.  Keep  the  variety  going,  don't  become 
a  software  journal,  or  a  hardware  tech  mag 
or  design  sheet.  We  all  need  to  see  what  the 
other  guys  are  doing. 

Your  timing  on  the  keyboard  article  in 
BYTE  Number  1  was  perfect!  I  had  just  got 
one  and  you  really  laid  it  out  for  me. 
Thank  you!  One  request,  how  about  an 
article  on  the  720  (Sanders)  terminal.  What 
it  is,  how  it  works,  how  to  interface  it  with  a 
computer,  some  service  info?  There  must  be 
tens  of  thousands  of  them  around  and  their 
owners  would  love  you  for  it. 

Tom  Pappan 
Corunna  IL 

SOME  THOUGHTS  ON  STANDARDS 

Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  con- 
gratulate you  and  your  staff  for  an  excellent 
magazine.  This  is  one  publication  I  read 
from  cover  to  cover.  Keep  up  the  good 
work! 

It's  interesting  to  note  the  various  calls 
for  standardization  in  the  hobby  computer 
field;  I  heartily  agree  that  there  should  be  as 
much  as  possible. 

Along  this  line,  let  me  suggest  one  more 


I  found  an  excited,  in- 
volved mob  of  computer 
hobbyists  who  are  as  seri- 
ous about  this  as  I  am. 


11 


The  computer  was  de- 
signed as  a  scientific  tool; 
we  all  don't  want  to  play 
"super  space  electronic 
hangman    life-war    pong." 


item  in  software  which  could  use  some  help 
—  the  10  problem.  Granted,  the  hardware 
manufacturers  are  helping,  by  offering  some- 
what standard  cards,  but  what  of  the  fellow 
who  wants  to  use  something  other  than  a 
Model  33  TTY  or  a  TV  Typewriter?  For 
example,  I  use  a  parallel-input  30  cps 
printer,  a  parallel-output  600  cps  tape 
reader,  and  a  parallel-input  punch.  I  have  to 
write  my  own  drivers  for  these  devices  and 
they  can  be  a  lot  longer  than  the  standard 
UART  routine.  Therefore,  any  ready-made 
program  I  want  to  run  on  my  computer  has 
to  be  modified  so  I  can  use  my  drivers  with 
it.  If  I  don't  have  a  listing  of  the  program,  I 
don't  know  where  all  the  10  routines  are 
located,  so  I  have  to  de-assemble  portions  of 
the  object  tape  to  find  them;  this  can  be  a 
real  bear! 

What  would  be  really  helpful  in  a  case 
like  this  would  be  to  have  some  standard 
addresses  which  would  then  vector  the  pro- 
gram to  the  appropriate  10  driver.  Every 
time  a  printer  output  is  necessary,  for 
instance,  the  program  would  call  location 
100  (or  whatever).  This  three  byte  section  of 
memory  would  then  contain  a  jump  to  the 
actual  IO  driver.  Thus  it  would  be  quite  easy 
to  modify  any  program  with  this  feature  to 
run  on  any  computer;  you  know  where  the 
branch  table  is  located  and  can  easily  insert 
your  own  driver  addresses.  Naturally,  each 
program  could  contain  its  own  drivers,  if 
you  wanted  to  use  them. 

It  sure  would  be  nice  if  someone 
(BYTE?)  would  make  strong  recom- 
mendations along  this  line  and  if  the 
manufacturers  would  give  serious  considera- 
tion to  adopting  the  recommendations. 

Michael  M  Dodd 
Fairfax  VA 

A  standard  for  complex  peripheral 
devices  has  not  yet  been  proposed  in  the 
small  systems  context.  There  is  a  de  facto 
plug  compatibility  standard  in  the  Altai r 
8800  bus  of  M ITS  due  to  second  sourcing  of 
memory  cards  and  peripherals  from  many 
firms. 

An  important  factor  to  be  considered  by 
potential  software  vendors  is  the  issue  of 
modularity  and  customization  to  weird 
peripherals.  The  most  generally  useful  soft- 
ware will  be  written  with  machine-specific 
"black  boxes"  assumed  for  10  operations. 

A  software  package  might  come  with  a 
standard  serial  10  routine.  But  if  the  soft- 
ware is  documented  and  supplied  with 
patching  instructions,  the  serial  10  black 
boxes  can  be  replaced  by  new  routines 
specific  to  a  particular  system. 


CHEERS 

Several  years  ago  while  daydreaming  in 
one  of  my  computer  science  classes,  I 
formulated  what  I  have  since  called  the 
programmer's  cheer.  As  a  systems  program- 
mer, I  now  recite  this  occasionally  to  uplift 
the  spirits  of  my  fellow  software  and  hard- 
ware specialists.  It  is  also  invigorating  to 
insert  this  in  documentation  and  in  the 
comments  of  program  listings.  Maybe  BYTE 
readers  and  staff  members  can  use  this  to 
inspire  enthusiasm  and  spread  the  good 
word? 

Programmer's  Cheer 

Shift  to  the  left 
Shift  to  the  right 

Pop  up!  Push  down! 
BYTE,  BYTE,  BYTE! 

Marilyn  Boguski 
N  Olmsted  OH 

BEYOND  GAMES 

Enclosed  is  $12  for  my  subscription  to 
BYTE.  I  think  the  journal  is  a  fine  start, 
certainly  a  welcome  change  from  the  base- 
ment mimeo-outputs  I've  been  getting.  A 
few  suggestions,  if  I  may.  Advertising  is  nice, 
and  I  know  it  makes  the  presses  go  round, 
but  don't  be  afraid  to  be  objective  in  your 
reviews  of  products,  or  to  knock  an  adver- 
tiser for  poor  service,  etc.  Your  readers  will 
appreciate  it. 

Standardization  will  be  important  in  the 
microcomputer  field.  Everyone  it  seems  will 
go  the  cassette  route  for  mass  storage  and 
data  exchange.  It  is  not  too  early  to  look  at 
all  the  possible  cassette  software  packages 
available  and  to  recommend  the  one  that 
seems  to  be  most  flexible,  least  speed- 
dependent,  capable  of  the  most  BPI,  etc. 
How  about  a  comparison  between  Lan- 
caster's design  and  the  pi:lse  modulation 
system  in  TCH?  The  sooner  one  method 
becomes  accepted,  the  sooner  a  free 
exchange  of  programs  between  micro- 
computer users  can  begin. 

In  my  own  work,  I  use  the  computer  for 
data  storage,  retrieval  and  statistical  analysis 
using  APL,  FORTRAN,  FOCAL,  and  the 
MARS  (CDC)  and  TRIAL  (Northwestern) 
data  storage  and  retrieval  programs.  Articles 
on  scientific  applications  would  be  nice.  The 
computer  was  designed  as  a  scientific  tool; 
we  all  don't  want  to  play  "super  space 
electronic  hangman  life-war  pong." 

Paul  Kanciruk 
Tallahassee  FL 


12 


For  a  limited  time  only,  you  can  own  an  Altair 
8800  Computer  kit  with  4,096  words  of  memory, 
new  Altair  multi-port  interface,  and  revolutionary 
Altair  BASIC  language  software,  for  just  $695.  A 
savings  of  up  to  $114!* 


Computer.  The  Altair  8800  is  the  best-selling  general-purpose 
computer  in  the  world  today.  It  is  a  parallel  8-bit  word/lb-hit 
address  computer  with  an  instruction  cycle  time  of  2  micro- 
seconds. It  was  designed  for  almost  unlimited  peripheral  and 
memory  expansion,  using  a  bus  system  where  all  input/output 
connections  merge  into  a  common  line.  The  Altair  8800  is  capable 
of  addressing  up  to  65,536  words  (bytes)  of  memory.  Regularly 
priced  at  $439  for  a  kit  and  $627  assembled. 

Memory.  The  Altair  -4K  Memory  Board  provides  4,096  words 
of  dynamic  random-access-memory  for  the  Altair  8800.  Contains 
memory  protect  circuitry,  and  address  selection  circuitry  tor  any 
one  of  16  starting  address  locations  in  increments  of  4K.  Access 
time  is  200-300  nanoseconds.  The  entire  4,096  words  of  memory 
on  the  board  can  be  protected  by  switching  to  PROTECT.  RegU- 
larly  priced  at  $195  for  kit  and  $275  assembled. 

Interface.  Your  choice  — either  the  new  Altair  88-2SIO  serial 
interface  or  the  new  Altair  88-4PIO  parallel  interface.  The  serial 
interface  can  be  ordered  with  either  one  or  two  ports  and  the 
parallel  interface  can  be  ordered  with  up  to  four  ports.  Add  $24 
fo;  an  additional  88-2SIO  port  kit.  Add  $30  for  each  additional 
88-4PIO  port  kit. 

Each  port  of  the  new  serial  interiace  board  is  user-selectable 
lor  RS232,  TIL,  or  20  milliamp  current  loop  (Teletype).  The 
88-2SIO  with  two  ports  can  interface  two  serial  I/O  devices, 
each  running  at  a  different  baud  rate  and  each  using  a  different 
electrical  interconnect.  For  example,  the  88-2SIO  could  he  inter- 
faced to  an  RS232  CRT  terminal  running  at  9600  baud  and  a 
Teletype  running  at  110  baud.  An  on-board,  crystal-controlled 
clock  allows  each  port  to  be  set  for  one  of  12  baud  rates.  The 
S8-2.S/0  is  regularly  priced  at  $115  kit  and  $144  assembled. 

Each  port  of  the  new  parallel  interiace  board  provides  1b  data 
lines  and  four  controllable  interrupt  lines.  Each  of  the  data  lines 
can  be  used  as  an  input  or  output  so  that  a  single  port  can  inter- 
face a  terminal  requiring  8  lines  in  and  8  lines  out.  All  data  lines 
are  TTL  compatible.  The  88-4PIO  regularly  sells  for  $86  kit  and 
$112  assembled. 

Software.  Altair  4K  BASIC  leaves  approximately  725  bytes  in 
a  4K  Altair"  for  programming  which  can  be  increased  by  deleting 
the  math  functions  (SIN,  SQR,  RND).  This  powerful   BASIC  has 


16  statements  (IF  .  .  .  THEN,  GOTO,  COSUB,  RETURN,  FOR, 
NEXT,  READ,  INPUT,  END,  DATA,  LET,  DIM,  REM,  RESTORE, 
PRINT,  and  STOP)  in  addition  to  4  commands  (LIST,  RUN, 
CLEAR,  NEW)  and  6  functions  (RND,  SQR,  SIN,  ABS,  INT,  TAB, 
and  SGN).  Other  features  include:  direct  execution  of  any  state- 
ment except  INPUT:  an  "@"  symbol  that  deletes  a  whole  line 
and  a  "<— "  that  deletes  the  last  character;  two-character  error 
code  and  line  number  printed  when  error  occurs;  Control  C  which 
is  used  to  interrupt  a  program;  maximum  line  number  of  65,529; 
and  all  results  calculated  to  seven  decimal  digits  of  precision. 
A/ta;>  4K  PASIC  is  regularly  priced  at  $60  tor  purchasers  oi  an 
Altair  8800,  4K  oi  Altair  memory,  and  an  Altair  I/O  board.  Please 
specify  paper  tape  or  cassette  tape  when  ordering. 

$t  Savings  depends  upon  which  interface  board  you  choose. 
An  Altair  4K  BASIC  language  system  kit  with  an  88-2SIO  interface 
regularly  sells  for  $809.  With  an  88-4PIO  interface,  this  system 
sells  for  $780. 

NOTE:  Offer  expires  on  March  30,  1976. 


\m 


'  Creative  Electronics 

MITS/6328  Linn  N.E.,  Albuquerque,  NM  87108    505/265-7553  or  262-1951 


MAIL  THIS  COUPON  TODAY! 


□  f.iu  losed  is  check  for  S_ 
Q  BartkAmericard 


_  □  or  Master  Charge 


D  Altair  BASIC  System  Special   □  -1PIO  interface   D  2StO  interface 
D  Cassette  tape   O  or  paper  tape 

O  Extra  SIO  port   □  Extra  4PIO  ports 

Add  $fl  for  postage  and  handling. 
D  Please  send  free  literature 


ADDRESS. 
CITY 


.STATE  &  ZIP_ 


NOTE:  Personal  checks  take  2-3  weeks  for  clearance.  For  immediate  processing 
send  money  order  or  use  charge  card.  Delivery:  30  days.  Prices,  specifica- 
tions and  delivery  subject  to  change. 


13 


Our  New  Offices 


Publishing  has  got  to  be  one  of  the 
craziest  fields  of  endeavor  in  the  known 
universe,  especially  as  practiced  in  up 
country  New  England.  After  a  start  which 
reads  like  a  romantic  light  opera  with  an 
episode  or  two  reminiscent  of  the  Keystone 
Cops,  BYTE  magazine  finally  has  moved 
into  separate  offices  of  its  own. 

BYTE  is  now  located  at  70  Main  Street, 
Peterborough  NH  03458  (phone 
603-924-7217).  We'll  leave  the  complete 
story  for  our  memoirs,  but  the  fact  is  we've 
moved  across  town  to  the  American  Guern- 
sey Cattle  Club  building  (known  as  "the 
Guernsey"  to  Peterborough  residents).  We're 
located     on     the     fourth    floor    of    Peter- 


borough's largest  building,  a  veritable 
skyscraper  if  it  weren't  for  Monadnock  and 
Pack  Monadnock  mountains  towering  above 
us  nearby.  Circulation  and  billing  will  soon 
be  changing  over  to  the  Guernsey's  IBM  360 
Model  25  computer  (not  very  exotic  but 
quite  functional)  and  much  of  our  type- 
setting and  graphic  work  is  now  being  done 
by  the  craftspeople  at  the  cattle  club.  That 
360/25  is  itself  evidence  of  progress  —  the 
Guernsey  used  to  have  almost  200  clerks 
keeping  track  of  the  family  trees  of  pure 
bred  cows  before  the  computer  automated 
the  records.  If  you're  passing  through  Peter- 
borough, stop  by  our  humble  abode  and  say 
hello." 


14 


Ydu  can  buy 

this  microcomputer 

for  $39.95,  but... 


We  would  be  a  bit  surprised  if  you 
could  do  anything  meaningful  without 

additional  hardware  and  software.       mc 

Wave  Mate's  Jupiter  II™  isn't  the  kind  of 

microcomputer  kit  you  only  stare  at . . .  when 

you've  completed  your  Jupiter  II  just  plug  in 

your  teletype  and  you're  ready  to  go.  That's 

because  it  goes  beyond  the  sum  of  its  high 

quality  parts.  It's  the  ultimate  micro  kit 

experience.  In  performance,  in  documentation, 

in  reliability.  First,  consider  its  superb  features. 

It  has  small  pluggable  wire  wrapped  cards 

easily  tailored  to  suit  your  modifications. 

Every  IC  is  socketed  and  100%  burn-in  tested. 


In  fact  every  part  including  the  powerful 
MC  6800  CPU  and  the  8K  dynamic  RAM 
68oo       is  guaranteed  for  120  days.  It  has  the  best 
software  around,  System  Monitor  and  Debug 
programs  (ROM).  Includes  powerful  text 
editor  and  Motorola  compatible  assembler. 
And  BASIC  at  no  extra  cost.  Because  we've 
been  making  microcomputer  systems  for  over 
4  years,  we  can  offer  you  the  broadest  line  of 
interfaces  including  TV  terminal  and  dual 
audio  cassette.  Impressive.  And  yet  the 
grandest  feature  is  the  experience  (   /  {f\~~\ 
of  completing  a  kit  that  works.        ['  Qj  '/  j 
Guaranteed.  Wmvjl  mate. 


ACT  NOW  AND  SAVE. 

Introductory  price  $1225.  (Assembled  $1885.) 

(Good  until  February  1,  1976) 

□  Send  Jupiter  II  Microcomputer  Kit.  Includes: 


Modular  plug-in  power 

supply 

9  module  PC  backplane 

CPU  module 

System  monitor  module 

8K  dynamic  RAM 

module 

Serial  RS  232 

communication  interface 

module 

Front  panel  module 

Front  panel 

Wire;  cut,  stripped,  color 

coded. 


•  Rack  mount  module  cage 

•  Wire  wrap  tool 

•  Wire  unwrap  tool 

•  Cables,  connectors,  all 
other  necessary 
hardware 

•  Software  (editor,  debug, 
assembler,  BASIC) 

•  Assembly  manuals 

•  Operators  manuals 

•  Theory  of  operation 
manuals 

•  Annual  membership  in 
users  group 


D  Send  details  on  kit-a-month  club 

□  Kit  □  Assembled 

□  RS232C  conversion  kit  (teletype)  $47.85 

□  I'm  not  convinced;  send  me  101  reasons  why. 

□  Please  send  free  Jupiter  II  System  catalogue. 

]  Check  enclosed  for  $ 


Include  $10.00  for  postage  and  handling.  California 
residents  add  6%  tax  Delivery  60  days  ARO 

□  Master  Charge    # 

□  Bank  Americard  # 

Credit  card  expires  on 


Name_ 


Address . 


City/State/Zip. 


WAVE  MATE 

1015  West  190th  Street  Gardena,  California  90248 

Telephone  (213)  329-8941 


WmvjlTTUlU   L 


WARRANTY 

120  days  on  all  parts, 

materials  and  workmanship. 


15 


Keyboard   Modification 


George  Macomber 
1422-1 8th  Ave 
Seattle   WA   98122 


I  read  your  article  in  the  September  1975 
BYTE  on  surplus  keyboards  with  interest.  I 
have  made  some  simple  modifications  to 
produce  lower  case  codes  on  RTL  and  DTL 
keyboards.  I  have  a  Southwest  Technical 
Products  keyboard  which  I  have  modified.  I 
have  also  modified  a  Sanders  720  owned  by 
a  friend. 

Control  Key:  On  keyboards  with  RTL  or 
DTL  outputs  (Sanders  720),  simply  ground- 
ing the  most  significant  bit  (MSB)  converts 
the  upper  case  letters  to  the  corresponding 
control  codes.  "M"  becomes  "carriage 
return"  and  "J"  becomes  "line  feed,"  etc. 
Most  keyboards  have  some  control  codes, 
but  this  simple  modification  gives  all  32 
possible  codes  0000000-001 1111. 

As  an  example,  on  a  Sanders  720,  the 
"repeat  key"  is  wired  to  terminal  8  (yellow 
wire),  which  is  the  flag  output  (see  "Deci- 
phering Mystery  Keyboards,"  September 
1975  BYTE).  The  repeat  key  simply  grounds 
the  flag  output.  Moving  the  wire  to  terminal 
15  converts  the  repeat  key  to  a  control  key. 

Lower  Case:  A  somewhat  more  com- 
plicated modification  which  works  on  both 


MSB 

IN 

BIT  NO.  6 

T 

control   _rJ-; 

KEY  £> 


SHIFT 
KEY 


JT 


-MSB 
OUT 


BIT  NO.  5 


— I BIT 


OUT 
BIT  NO.5 


the  Sanders  720  and  the  Southwest  Tech- 
nical Products  keyboards  allows  the  produc- 
tion of  lower  case  letter  codes 
1100000-1111111. 

In  order  to  get  lower  case  codes  from  a 
keyboard  which  produces  only  upper  case,  it 
is  necessary  to  make  the  fifth  bit  high.  The 
code  for  "A"  1000001  becomes  "a" 
1100001,  and  "["  1011011  becomes 
"  {  "  1111011.  The  circuit  shown  adds 
lower  case  and  control  to  any  RTL  or  DTL 
output  keyboard. 

The  control  key  has  already  been  men- 
tioned and  is  not  required  if  the  keyboard 
already  has  one  (Southwest  Technical  Pro- 
ducts). Both  a  shift  key  and  a  toggle  switch 
are  shown.  You  will  probably  want  both. 
When  the  toggle  or  key  switch  is  closed,  the 
keyboard  behaves  as  it  did  before  modifica- 
tion. When  both  are  open,  the  keyboard 
generates  lower  case,  but  the  numbers  and 
other  shifted  keys  (i.e.,  1  -*  !)  are  un- 
affected. A  convenient  key  to  use  on  the 
Sanders  is  one  of  the  shift  keys,  leaving  the 
other  shift  key  for  numbers  and  some  other 
symbols  (i.e.,  [,  \   ,],_)• 

What  happens  when  both  shift  keys  are 
pressed?  Shift'  has  no  effect  on  the  numbers 
since  bit  no.  6  is  0,  which  forces  the  upper 
case  or  shift'  function.  But  the  old  shift 
changes  the  letter  codes,  either  by  forcing 
the  fourth  bit  to  0,  or  by  inverting  the 
fourth  bit  (Sanders).  Inverting  the  fourth  bit 
allows  the  generation  of  some  additional 
codes  ([,  \  ,  ],  _),  and  their  equivalent 
lower  case  (  (  ,  }  ,  «,  DEL)  and  control 
codes.  These  will  not  be  available  if  your 
keyboard  forces  the  fourth  bit,  unless  it  has 
separate  keys  for  these  codes.  ■ 


16 


FROM  THE  COMPANY  THAT  DELIVERS 
COMES  THE  BIGGEST  SURPRISE  OF  THE  CENTURY. 

ASSEMBLED 

4K  COMPUTER 

Graphics  and  Cassette  I/O 

$860.00 


...  A  GRAPHICS  CONTROLLER  FOR  USE  WITH  YOUR  TV. 
MOTOROLA  6800  MICROPROCESSOR  BASED  COMPUTER 
HOUSED  IN  AN  ATTRACTIVE  DESKTOP  TERMINAL,  AND 
MUCH,  MUCH  MORE. 


PHEEE 

CORPORATION 

791  South  500  West  Dept.  122  fRfm  9Q9  ft  AAA 

Bountiful,  Utah  84010  ^U1'  *VJ*-84bb 

WRITE  TODAY   FOR  THE  FULL  MICRO-SPHERE  PACKAGE. 


17 


The  "My  Dear  Aunt 


Robert  Grappel 

MIT  Lincoln  Laboratory 

Lexington  MA    02173 


The  number  of  mathematical  operations  a 
computer  can  perform  without  the  aid  of 
programming  is  quite  small.  The  bare 
machine  can  add  and  subtract,  and  perhaps 
it  can  also  multiply  and  divide.  It  cannot 
comprehend  a  series  of  operations,  nor  can  it 
evaluate  a  mathematical  expression  as  a 
human  would  typically  write  it.  It  cannot 
group  operations  as  required  by  the  rules  of 
mathematics.  All  these  require  software; 
programs  which  convert  mathematical  state- 
ments to  sequences  of  machine  instructions. 
This  article  describes  a  set  of  programs 
which  can  read  a  mathematical  statement  in 
its  normal  form  and  evaluate  its  result.  The 
discussion  is  kept  on  a  general  level:  no 
specific  machine  or  language  structure  is 
assumed.  These  programs  should  find  their 
way  into  many  "do-it-yourself"  assemblers, 
compilers  and  interpreters  ....  wherever  it 
is  useful  to  write  mathematical  expressions 
for  input  to  a  computer. 

My  Dear  Aunt  Sally 

Shortly  after  students  learn  to  do  the 
basic  operations  of  addition,  subtraction, 
multiplication,  and  division  (the  same  opera- 
tions that  bare  computers  can  perform), 
they  are  faced  with  problems  of  the  follow- 
ing kind:  3—5*2=?.  A  student  with  imagina- 
tion finds  such  a  problem  paradoxical;  there 
are  several  apparently  "correct"  answers. 
Performing  the  operations  in  the  order  of 
appearance,  he  gets  —4  (scanning  left-to- 
right).  Performing  the  multiplication  first,  he 
gets  —7.  If  he  chooses  to  scan  from  right  to 
left,  then  the  results  +4  and  +7  are  possible. 
Which  is  correct? 

My  teacher  gave  us  a  rule  to  remember 
how    to    proceed    with    these    problems   — 


multiply,  divide,  add,  subtract  —  or,  "My 
Dear  Aunt  Sally"  as  we  came  to  remember 
this  order.  Mathematical  statements  are  read 
from  left  to  right,  for  each  operation.  The 
evaluation  starts  with  all  the  multiplications, 
left  to  right.  It  then  proceeds  in  the  order  of 
"my-dear-aunt-sally,"  evaluating  all  the  divi- 
sions, then  all  the  additions,  then  all  the 
subtractions.  Mathematicians  call  this  order- 
ing the  "precedence  of  functions,"  and  all 
mathematical  operations  can  be  ranked  in 
the  order  in  which  they  are  to  be  performed. 
Hence,  the  example  has  only  one  correct 
result,  and  this  is  —7. 

Unfortunately,  precedence  is  not  enough 
to  force  a  single  answer  from  every  problem. 
Suppose  one  wishes  to  perform  one  opera- 
tion upon  the  result  of  a  group  of  several 
other  operations,  some  of  which  are  of 
higher  precedence.  One  needs  some  mech- 
anism to  group  certain  parts  of  a  mathe- 
matical statement  so  that  they  can  be 
considered  as  a  single  unit  to  be  treated  by 
some  other  operation.  For  this  purpose, 
mathematics  uses  parentheses.  If  one  wrote 
the  example  from  above  as:  (3— 5)*2=?,  it  is 
clear  that  the  subtraction  should  be  per- 
formed first,  in  spite  of  the  precedence  of 
the  two  operators.  With  the  two  tools  of 
precedence  and  parentheses,  one  can  force 
the  desired  ordering  of  operations  upon  a 
mathematical  statement  and  ensure  that 
there  will  be  only  one  correct  result. 


What  Is  a  Parser? 

Now,  how  can  a  computer  deal  with 
complex  mathematical  statements  like  the 
example?  The  computer  can  perform  each 
operation    individually,    either    by   a   single 


18 


Sally"  Algorithm 


elementary  operation  or  by  calling  a  sub- 
routine. The  problem  is  the  same  one  that 
we  faced  as  students;  how  does  one  break 
down  a  complex  mathematical  statement  to 
perform  the  individual  operations  in  the 
right  order?  The  name  for  this  operation  of 
breaking  down  a  complex  statement  into  its 
component  parts,  determining  the  structure 
of  the  statement,  and  evaluating  it  as  re- 
quired, is  "parsing."  This  article  describes  a 
set  of  procedures  which  together  form  a 
parser. 

Tokens 

At  the  outset,  the  computer  sees  a  mathe- 
matical statement  as  a  string  of  characters. 
All  that  is  known  about  the  string  is  its 
starting  address  and  its  length.  The 
statement 

X-2/(YAXIS+Z) 

is  a  string  of  13  characters  at  some  address. 
One  of  the  first  things  that  is  necessary  is  a 
procedure  to  subdivide  this  string  into  its 
elements:  variables,  constants,  operators, 
and  parentheses.  The  example  contains  three 
variables:  X,  YAXIS,  and  Z.  It  contains  one 
constant:  2.  There  are  three  operators:  -,  /, 
and  +.  There  are  also  two  parentheses.  Each 
of  these  elements  is  a  character  string.  These 
strings  may  be  of  differing  lengths.  There 
may  be  blanks  embedded  in  the  input  string, 
but  these  are  not  desired  in  the  element 
strings.  The  procedure  which  subdivides  the 
input  string  and  eliminates  blanks  is  called 
NEXTOKEN.  Each  element  of  the  input 
string  is  called  a  token.  The  first  problem  of 
constructing  a  parser  is  to  find  a  way  to 
inform  a  computer  about  the  tokens  con- 


tained in  the  character  string  representation 
of  a  mathematical  statement. 

Blanks  as  Separators 

There  are  several  ways  to  approach  this 
problem.  Perhaps  the  easiest  (in  the  sense 
that  the  coding  of  NEXTOKEN  is  simplest) 
is  to  require  that  the  writer  of  a  mathe- 
matical statement  put  at  least  one  blank 
between  every  element  or  token  in  the 
statement.  In  this  way,  the  human  pro- 
grammer breaks  the  input  string  into  tokens 
before  the  computer  gets  it.  We  would 
require  that  the  above  statement  be  written 
as 

X  -2  /(  YAXIS  +  Z) 

where  all  the  extra  spaces  are  required.  With 
this  method  of  token  separation 
NEXTOKEN  would  work  like  this:  Starting 
at  the  last  character  processed  (the  leftmost 
one  at  the  start  of  the  string),  NEXTOKEN 
scans  the  input  string  from  left  to  right  until 
a  blank  occurs.  This  substring  (from  starting 
point  to  blank)  is  the  next  token.  The  next 
step  is  to  determine  what  type  of  token  has 
been  scanned.  The  rule  that  will  be  followed 
in  this  article  is  that  the  first  character  of  a 
token  determines  its  type.  If  the  first  charac- 
ter is  alphabetic,  then  the  token  is  a  variable. 
If  the  first  character  is  a  digit  or  decimal 
point,  then  the  token  is  a  constant.  If  the 
first  character  is  neither  of  the  above,  then  it 
is  checked  against  a  table  of  legal  operators. 
If  it  is  not  an  operator,  then  it  is  checked  to 
see  if  it  is  a  parenthesis.  Variables  might  be 
checked  for  invalid  characters  in  their  names 
or  too  many  characters  in  the  name;  con- 
stants  might   be   checked   for  non-numeric 


19 


"My  Dear  Aunt  Sally"  is  a 
precedence   ordering   rule. 


A  parser  is  a  programming 
scheme  to  analyze  state- 
ments. 


Figure  1 :  Flow  chart  of  the  NEXTOKEN  algorithm  used  in  this  design,  (a)  The  main  routine,  (b)  The  variable  name  collection 
algorithm,  (c)  The  numeric  constant  collection  algorithm,  (d)  Parenthesis  handler,  (e)  Single  character  function  name  handler,  (f) 
Generalized  function  name  handler. 


,    BEGIN 

A 

YES 

/get  next  / 
/  character/ 

TEST  NEXT 
CHARACTER 

DISCARD 
CHARACTER 

S     QL 

WK^S. 

£ 


COLUTT 
CHARACTER 


GET  NEXT 
CHARACTER 


TEST  NEXT 
CHARACTER 


COLLECT 
CHARACTER 


GET  NEXT 
CHARACTER 


TEST  NEXT 
CHARACTER 


COLLECT 
CHARACTER 


RETURN 

PARENTHESIS 
TOKEN 


COLLECT 
CHARACTER 


■O 


TEST  VALID 'Y 
OF  COLLECTED 
STRING 


TEST  VALID 'Y 
OF  COLLECTED 
STRING 


<D 


-O 


RETURN 

VARIABLE 

TOKEN 


RETURN 

CONSTANT 

TOKEN 


£ 


collect 
chajwtkr 


<D 


1 


/G17T  NEXT 
'CHARACTER 


COLLECT 
CHARACTER 


POT 
ERROR  HI  , 


1TST  NEXT 
.'HARACTER 


GET  NEXT 
CHARACTER 


DISCARD 
CHARACTER 


f    END     J 


TEST  STRING 
VS  TABLE 


POT 

ERROR   «4 


RETURN 

1  CHARACTER 

OPERATOR 


G> 


RETURN 

operator 
toktj; 


A  character  is  fetched  by  the  "get  next  character"  operation.  This  character  may  be  collected  into  an  output  string  by 
NEXTOKEN,  or  discarded  if  it  is  to  be  ignored.  If  it  is  neither  collected  or  discarded,  the  character  will  be  reused  the  next  time 
the  "get  next  character"  operation  is  performed.  Flow  is  from  left  to  right  or  from  top  to  bottom  unless  an  arrowhead  indicates 
a  different  flow  direction. 


20 


characters  or  more  than  one  decimal  point. 
A  token  which  failed  to  match  the  model  of 
any  of  the  four  token  types  would  be 
flagged  as  an  error,  as  would  any  of  the  error 
conditions  described  above.  A  check  for 
string  length  of  an  operator  might  be  used: 
The  string  '+=VAR'  is  not  an  operator, 
despite  its  first  character. 

A  Smarter  Token  Separator 

Requiring  blanks  around  every  token  of  a 
mathematical  statement  not  only  takes  up 
valuable  memory  space  but  also  makes  the 
parser  very  susceptible  to  programmer 
errors.  It  is  far  too  easy  to  forget  one  of 
those  critical  blanks.  Fortunately,  with  a 
slightly  more  complicated  mechanism  for 
NEXTOKEN,  one  can  parse  a  randomly 
written  statement  with  any  spacing.  This 
algorithm  is  flowcharted  in  figure  1. 

The  routine  starts  by  always  scanning  and 
ignoring  any  leading  blanks.  Eventually  it 
finds  a  non  blank  character,  the  first  charac- 
ter of  some  token.  Remember  that  a  rule 
was  established  for  this  parser:  The  first 
character  of  a  token  determines  its  type. 
Once  the  token  type  is  known,  the 
NEXTOKEN  routine  checks  that  subsequent 
characters  are  valid  for  that  token  type.  As 
soon  as  a  character  is  found  which  is  invalid 
for  that  token  type,  the  token  is  completed. 
For  example,  consider  the  expression  X+5. 
The  first  character  (leftmost)  is  alphabetic; 
this  means  that  the  first  token  is  a  variable. 
The  second  character  is  not  alphanumeric,  so 
it  is  not  part  of  the  variable  type  token. 
Hence,  the  first  token  is  X  which  is  a 
variable.  The  next  token  starts  with  a  + 
which  is  found  in  the  operator  table.  Hence 
it  is  an  operator.  The  next  character  is  the 
digit  5.  This  is  the  start  of  a  constant  type 
token.  There  are  no  further  characters,  so 
the  token  is  complete. 

Is  It  an  Operator  or  a  Variable? 

One  useful  extension  to  the  algorithm 
should  be  considered  here.  Many  operator 
names  that  we  would  like  to  use  are  not 
single  symbols,  but  are  several  characters  in 
length.  One  might  for  example  want  to  call 
the  cosine  operator  by  the  name  COS. 
Unfortunately,  the  simple  minded 
NEXTOKEN  procedure  would  confuse  this 
with  a  variable  named  COS.  There  are  several 
ways  around  this  problem.  One  is  to  define 
new  symbols  for  each  operation  added  to 
the  system.  These  are  added  to  the  character 
tests  for  operators  and  the  parser  will  work 
fine.  This  makes  for  clumsy  notation,  how- 
ever; and  there  may  not  be  enough  distinct 
characters  available  in  keyboards,  Teletypes, 
etc.  A  second  approach  is  to  require  a  special 


character,  such  as  the  dollar  sign  ($),  as  the 
first  character  of  the  string  desired  as  an 
operator  name.  The  cosine  function  might 
therefore  be  named  $COS.  The  dollar  sign 
would  disqualify  the  name  as  a  variable  and 
identify  it  as  a  candidate  for  operator  status. 
NEXTOKEN  would  then  check  the  re- 
maining characters  in  the  name  (using  the 
same  rules  as  for  variables)  against  a  table  of 
operator  names.  If  a  match  is  found,  then 
the  string  is  an  operator.  The  third  approach 
is  to  forego  the  identifying  first  character  in 
operator  names  and  to  treat  operator  names 
as  a  special  kind  of  variable  in  NEXTOKEN: 
When  a  character  string  is  typed  as  a 
variable,  it  is  then  checked  against  the  list  of 
operator  names.  If  a  match  is  found,  then 
the  token  is  changed  in  type  from  variable  to 
operator  after  further  statement  analysis. 
Since  this  is  complicated,  NEXTOKEN 
assumes  the  dollar  sign  as  identifying  charac- 
ter for  extended  operator  names.  We  see  that 
NEXTOKEN  starts  with  a  character  string,  a 
starting  pointer  within  that  character  string, 
and  the  position  of  the  end  of  the  string. 
NEXTOKEN  returns  a  character  string 
which  is  the  new  token,  an  indication  of  the 
token  type,  and  the  token  length.  It  leaves 
the  input  string  starting  pointer  with  a  new 
value  after  collecting  or  discarding  each 
character  needed  to  build  the  current  token. 

Some  Small  Procedures 

There  are  several  small  procedures  which 
are  necessary  to  the  parser  and  which  are 
briefly  described  now.  Two  of  these  are 
required  to  convert  the  character  strings, 
which  are  the  tokens,  into  their  values.  One 
of  these,  called  CONST,  works  on  constants. 
The  other,  called  VARIABLE,  works  on 
variables.  Routines  like  these  are  usually 
available  in  a  large  computer's  operating 
system.  For  minicomputers,  the  algorithms 
can  be  extracted  from  programming  texts 
and  programmed  for  software  deficient 
home  brew  systems.  The  mechanism  of 
VARIABLE  depends  on  the  structure 
chosen  for  the  symbol  table  used  to  store 
variables.  There  should  be  some  form  of 
check  that  a  variable  has  a  value  before  it  is 
used.  If  it  has  no  value,  an  error  message 
should  be  generated.  Another  routine 
needed  is  a  form  of  branch  table  to  convert 
the  character  string  name  of  an  operator  into 
a  call  to  the  proper  subroutine  to  perform 
the  operation. 

A  mechanism  for  generating  the  prece- 
dence of  operators  is  also  needed,  as  was 
demonstrated  in  the  introduction  to  this 
article.  This  amounts  to  a  table  of  prece- 
dence values  indexed  by  the  operator  name. 
Every    legal    operator    is   assigned   a    prece- 


Computing  the  value  of  a 
statement  is  often  easier  if 
the  statement  is  first  re- 
written in  a  form  better 
suited  to  computers. 
Polish  notation  is  such  a 
form. 


21 


Operator 

Precedence 

Trigonometric  functions, 

7  or  more 

Logarithmic  functions, 

Roots,  etc. 

t     (Exponentiation) 

6 

*      (Multiplication) 

5 

/      (Division) 

4 

+     (Addition) 

3 

—    (Subtraction) 

2 

parenthesis 

1 

empty  stack 

0 

Table  I:  Precedence  of  operators.  This  is  a 
typical  mathematical  precedence  of 
operations. 


(      BEGIN  J 


CALL 
NEXTOKEN 


TEST 
TOKEN 


G> 


MOVE  TOKEN 
TO  STACK 


MOVE  TOKEN 
TO  POLISH 
STRING 


-O 


MOVE  STACK  TO 
POLISH  STRING 
UNTIL  ' ( ' 


LOOK  UP 

OPERATOR 

PRECEDENCE 


-O 


MOVE  TOKEN 
TO  STACK 


6 


Figure  2:  The  POLISH  routine  specified  as  a  flow  chart.  This  routine  uses 
NEXTOKEN  to  obtain  individual  tokens  of  the  syntax,  then  uses  its  logic  to 
rearrange  these  tokens  in  Polish  notation.  The  output  of  this  routine  is  a 
Polish  string. 


dence,  as  are  parentheses  and  the  right  and 
left  terminations  of  the  input  string.  This 
article  assumes  that  the  higher  the  prece- 
dence value,  the  earlier  the  operation  should 
be  done.  In  other  words,  the  operator  with 
highest  precedence  goes  first,  the  second 
highest  goes  next,  etc.  Table  1  is  a  typical 
precedence  table.  This  precedence  lookup 
procedure  is  called  PRECEDE. 

Intermediate  Results 

As  shown  in  the  introduction  of  this 
article,  it  is  often  necessary  to  evaluate  a 
mathematical  statement  in  a  different  order 
than  that  in  which  the  statement  was 
written.  "My  Dear  Aunt  Sally"  does  all  the 
multiplications  first,  then  the  divisions,  then 
the  additions  and  subtractions.  This  parser 
operates  by  rewriting  the  statement  into  a 
more  desirable  form.  In  the  new  form,  the 
operators  are  performed  in  the  order  that 
they  appear.  There  are  no  parentheses  re- 
quired in  the  new  form.  The  operands  (the 
variables  and  constants)  and  operators  are 
located  in  a  simple  and  consistent  relation- 
ship to  one  another  in  the  new  form.  This 
makes  the  evaluation  algorithm  easier  to 
write  and  more  efficient.  This  "nice"  form 
for  writing  mathematical  statements  was 
devised  by  the  Polish  logician  J.  Lukasie- 
wicz. The  next  item  to  consider  in  this 
parsing  system  is  a  procedure  to  rewrite  the 
input  character  string  into  Polish  notation. 
This  procedure,  called  POLISH,  uses 
NEXTOKEN  to  disassemble  the  input  string 
when  required  by  its  algorithm.  POLISH  also 
uses  PRECEDE  to  compare  the  precedences 
of  operators  in  different  parts  of  the  string. 
Figure  2  shows  a  flowchart  of  POLISH.  This 
procedure  forms  the  heart  of  the  parser  and 
is  described  in  some  detail.  Several  examples 
are  also  worked  through.  Once  a  mathe- 
matical statement  is  in  Polish  notation,  it  is 
rather  easy  to  evaluate  it. 

A  few  examples  of  Polish  notation  and  its 
evaluation  are  in  order  here.  Consider  the 
statement  A*B+C*D.  We  know  by  prece- 
dence that  the  multiplications  are  to  be 
performed  first.  In  Polish  notation  we 
choose  to  write  the  operands  first,  followed 
by  the  operator.  Hence,  A*B  becomes  AB*. 
Similarly,  C*D  becomes  CD*.  Then  the 
addition  of  these  quantities  is  written 
AB*CD*+.  This  is  the  Polish  form  of  the 
example  statement.  This  string  is  evaluated 
as  follows:  Starting  at  the  left,  operands 
(variables  and  constants)  are  passed  directly 
into  a  software  pushdown  stack  in  memory, 
which  is  a  temporary  holding  area  organized 
so  that  the  first  item  in  the  stack  will  be  the 
last  item  out  of  the  stack.  (This  stack  should 
not  be  confused  with  the  subroutine  call  and 
return  stacks  of  many  microcomputers.)  The 


22 


stack  will  hold  the  values  of  the  operands,  as 
returned  by  the  procedures  VARIABLE  and 
CONST.  When  an  operator  is  encountered,  it 
is  applied  to  the  top  two  values  in  the  stack. 
The  result  of  the  operation  is  returned  to  the 
stack  in  place  of  the  operands.  Figure  3 
shows  a  flowchart  of  the  evaluation  proce- 
dure, called  EVAL. 

Let  us  proceed  to  evaluate  the  example 
AB*CD*+.  First,  we  place  A,  which  is  a 
value,  on  the  stack.  Then  we  place  B  on  the 
stack.  Next,  we  encounter  the  operator  *. 
The  top  two  values  on  the  stack  are  A  and  B, 
so  we  compute  A  times  B  and  return  that 
value  to  the  stack.  Next,  we  put  C  on  the 
stack.  Next,  D  goes  on  the  stack.  Then  the 
operator  *  is  encountered  again.  The  top 
two  entries  on  the  stack  (the  last  ones 
entered)  are  C  and  D.  We  compute  C  times  D 
and  return  that  value  to  the  stack.  The  stack 
now  holds  two  values  which  are  the  products 
of  A  and  B,  C  and  D,  respectively.  Finally, 
we  encounter  the  operator  +.  We  perform 
the  addition  and  then  we  are  done.  In  a 
similar  manner,  the  first  example  of  this 
article,  3—5*2,  would  be  written  as  352*— 
in  Polish. 

POLISH  starts  by  calling  NEXTOKEN  for 
the  first  token.  If  it  is  not  an  operator  or 
parenthesis,  the  token  is  output  to  the  Polish 
string  and  NEXTOKEN  is  called  for  the  next 
token  in  the  input  string.  If  the  token  was  a 
left  parenthesis,  the  parenthesis  is  placed  in 
the  stack  and  NEXTOKEN  is  called  again.  If 
the  token  was  a  right  parenthesis,  the  con- 
tents of  the  stack  are  moved  to  the  output 
Polish  string  until  a  left  parenthesis  is  en- 
countered or  the  stack  is  empty.  Both  the 
left  and  right  parentheses  are  deleted  and 
NEXTOKEN  is  called.  Parentheses  must 
occur  in  left-right  pairs  —  if  there  is  no  left 
parenthesis  in  the  stack  after  a  right  paren- 
thesis is  found,  there  is  an  error  and  the 
string  cannot  be  parsed.  If  the  token  was  an 
operator,  then  its  precedence  is  checked 
against  the  precedence  of  the  top  of  the 
stack.  If  the  new  operator  is  of  lower 
precedence  than  the  top  of  the  stack,  the 
top  of  the  stack  is  output  to  the  Polish  string 
and  the  check  is  performed  with  the  new  top 
of  stack.  Eventually  the  new  operator  will 
have  higher  precedence  than  the  top  of  the 
stack  (an  empty  stack  has  zero  precedence). 
If  the  new  token  is  the  end  of  the  input 
string,  then  it  is  treated  as  an  operator  of 
lowest  precedence.  Some  languages  use  a 
special  character  for  the  input  string  termi- 
nator, but  this  is  not  necessary.  In  any  case, 
if  the  new  token  is  the  end  of  the  input 
string,  then  POLISH  is  finished  when  the 
stack  is  empty.  If  the  new  token  is  not  the 
end  of  the  input  string,  then  the  token  is 
placed    on    the  stack  and   NEXTOKEN    is 


(        BEGIN     ) 


GET  NEXT 
POLISH  STR'G 
TOKEN 


TEST  TOKEN 
TYPE 


PUSH  OPERAND 
INTO  POLISH 
STACK 


PUSH 

OPERATOR 
(A,B) 


TEST  STACK 
SIZE 


A:=POP 

RETURN  A 

[           END 

) 

Figure  3:  The  EVAL  routine  specified  as  a  flow  chart.  This  routine  is  an 
example  of  an  interpreter.  It  takes  the  Polish  string  created  by  POLISH,  and 
decodes  it  and  evaluates  the  mathematical  value  to  be  computed.  Several 
functions  are  employed  by  the  EVAL  routine,  as  follows:  PUSH  means  place 
the  value  in  question  into  the  operand  stack,  increasing  the  stack  size  by  one 
value.  POP  means  recover  the  top  operand  from  the  operand  stack,  decreasing 
the  stack  size  by  one  value.  OPERATOR(A,B)  means  evaluate  the  combina- 
tion of  the  value  A  and  the  value  B  according  to  the  definition  of  the  current 
operator  in  the  POLISH  string.  The  data  concepts  employed  during 
evaluation  are  as  follows:  Temporary  data  storage  is  found  in  A  and  B.  The 
Polish  string  is  a  series  of  separated  tokens  created  by  POLISH  as  its  output. 
The  operand  stack  is  a  first-in-first-out  stack  of  values  defined  by  operand 
tokens  (variables  and  constants)  in  the  Polish  string,  or  by  the  results  of 
previous  operations  which  are  left  in  the  stack. 


23 


Table  2:  An  example  of  the  POLISH  routine 
in  operation.  The  output  string  of  a  practical 
implementation  of  POLISH  must  have  a 
convention  to  separate  tokens.  Storing  out- 
put as  a  reconstructed  character  string  with 
blanks  to  separate  operands  allows  EVAL 
and  UNPOL  to  use  the  same  NEXTOKEN 
routine  which  POLISH  calls.  Other  storage 
techniques,  which  do  not  require  the  use  of 
blanks  as  separators,  are  possible. 


(         BEGIN    J 


PUSH 
1 ( '  INTO 
STACK 


PLACE  OP 
ON  STACK 


nput 

Stack 

Output 

A 

A 

+ 

+ 

B 

+ 

B 

t 
( 

+tl 

C 

+t( 

C 

* 

+t(* 

D 

+t(* 

D 

/ 
( 

+t(/ 
+t(/| 

* 

D 

+t(/( 

D 

+ 

+t(/(+ 

F 

+t(/(+ 

F 

) 

+t(/ 

+ 

* 

+t(* 

/ 

G 

+t(* 

G 

) 

+t 

* 

end 

of  string 

t 
+ 

OUTPUT 
TOKEN 


\        EtD  J 


-O 


Figure  4:  The  UNPOL  routine  specified  as  a  flow  chart.  This  routine  takes  the 
Polish  string  created  by  POLISH  and  inverts  the  transformation  to  obtain  a 
normal  arithmetic  expression  again. 


called  again.  Table  2  shows  the  input 
string,  stack  contents,  and  output  string 
as  POLISH  works  through  the  string 
A+Bt(C*D/(D+F)*G)  where  the  upward 
arrow  symbol  represents  the  exponentiation. 
Exponentiation  has  a  higher  precedence  than 
the  other  operations  in  this  example.  Work- 
ing through  the  example  shown  in  table  2 
should  convince  the  beginning  programmer 
that  this  algorithm  actually  does  translate  to 
Polish  notation.  EVAL  can  then  evaluate 
the  Polish  expression  to  obtain  the  final 
result. 

Undoing  What's  Just  Been  Done 

Polish  notation  is  a  convenient  way  to 
store  a  mathematical  expression  in  computer 
memory.  It  tends  to  contain  fewer  charac- 
ters, since  parentheses  are  not  needed.  Also, 
it  can  be  readily  evaluated  without  the  need 
to  first  perform  a  complicated  conversion  of 
the  sort  we  just  saw  described.  However,  if 
one  wants  to  edit  an  expression  or  change  its 
structure,  then  one  would  really  like  to  see 
the  original  form  of  the  expression.  Figure  4 
shows  the  flowchart  of  a  procedure  called 
UNPOL  which  reverses  the  process  of 
POLISH  and  converts  a  statement  of  Polish 
notation  back  to  normal  form.  It  scans  from 
right  to  left  (the  reverse  of  POLISH)  and 
outputs  the  normal  string  in  reverse  order. 
UNPOL  can  use  the  same  NEXTOKEN  and 
PRECEDE  that  POLISH  uses  (see  the  note 
in  table  2).  The  only  change  is  the  sequence 
in  which  the  tokens  are  used.  Table  3  shows 
the  input,  stack  contents,  and  output  of 
UNPOL  as  it  reverses  the  processing  of  the 
example  A+Bt(C*D/(D+F)*G).  Note  that 
unnecessary  parentheses  are  dropped  when  a 
mathematical  expression  goes  through 
POLISH    and    then    through    UNPOL.    For 

Input  Stack  Output 


+ 

+ 

t 

+t 

* 

+t(* 

) 

G 

+t( 

G* 

/ 

+HI 

+ 

+t{/(+ 

) 

F 

+t(/( 

F+ 

D 

+t( 

D(/ 

# 

+t(* 

D 

+t( 

D* 

C 

+ 

C(  t 

B 

B+ 

A 

A 

NOTE :  Processing  starts  at  the  top  of  this  table. 
The  Polish  string  is  scanned  in  reverse  order 
starting  with  its  rightmost  character.  Pro- 
ceeding down  the  table,  the  output  is 
generated  in  reverse  order  also,  starting 
with  the  rightmost  character. 

Table  3:  An  example  of  UNPOL  in  opera- 
tion. The  Polish  string  input  to  UNPOL  is 
scanned  in  reverse  order  (right  to  left)  and 
generates  the  output  string  starting  at  the 
left. 


24 


example,  (A*B)+(C*D)  becomes  A*B+C*D. 
The  parentheses  were  unnecessary  because 
operator  precedence  ensured  that  the  multi- 
plications would  be  done  first.  UNPOL  will 
not  drop  any  necessary  parentheses. 

Trying  a  few  examples  through  the 
parsing  algorithms  presented  here  should 
convince  even  a  beginning  programmer  that 
Polish  notation  provides  a  straightforward 
way  to  make  a  computer  evaluate  complex 
mathematical  expressions.  Using  these 
algorithms,  it  will  be  possible  for  readers  to 
incorporate  evaluation  of  mathematical  state- 
ments into  their  programming  systems." 

My  Dear  Aunt  Sally's  Glossary 

Alphabetic  Character:  Any  of  the  letters  A  through 

Z. 

Assembler:  A  program  which  translates  symbolic 
assembly  language  intput  into  machine  language 
output.  Assemblers  frequently  require  arithmetic 
statement  parsers  in  order  to  compute  addresses 
and  data  values  based  upon  symbolic  assembly 
language  statements. 

Compiler:  A  program  which  translates  symbolic 
statements  of  a  high  level  language  input  into  a 
machine  language  output.  Compilers  require  some 
form  of  arithmetic  statement  parsing,  although  the 
output  is  generally  converted  one  step  further  into 
actual  machine  code. 

Constant:  A  constant  is  a  way  of  specifying  data 
which  is  fixed.  In  the  My  Dear  Aunt  Sally  parser, 
constants  are  defined  by  input  character  strings 
which  begin  with  a  numeric  character,  and  contain 
only  numeric  characters  or  at  most  one  decimal 
point. 

Interpreter:  A  program  which  translates  symbolic 
statements  of  a  high  level  language  input  into  an 
immediate  action.  An  interpreter  could  use  the  My 
Dear  Aunt  Sally  parser  to  evaluate  arithmetic 
expressions  when  required. 

Mathematical  expression:  An  input  character  string 
which  obeys  the  syntactical  rules  of  the  My  Dear 
Aunt  Sally  parser  and  can  potentially  be  evaluated 
as  a  single  resulting  arithmetic  value. 


breaking  that  input  string  into  a  series  of  tokens 
according  to  the  syntax  rules. 

Pop:  Remove  an  element  from  a  stack  storage 
mechanism,  in  a  last  in,  first  out  order. 

Precedence:  In  evaluating  an  arithmetic  expression, 
precedence  is  used  to  resolve  ambiguities  in  the 
order  of  execution  of  several  operations:  The 
operations  with  higher  precedence  are  performed 
first. 

Push:  Add  an  element  to  a  stack  storage 
mechanism. 

Scan  a  string:  The  process  of  sequentially  looking 
at  each  character  or  token  of  a  string  in  a  well 
defined  order  from  left  to  right,  or  right  to  left. 

Software  pushdown  stack:  A  stack  storage 
mechanism  can  be  implemented  exclusively  in 
hardware,  or  by  using  mechanisms  which  are  part 
hardware  and  part  software,  or  entirely  in  soft- 
ware. For  the  purposes  of  the  My  Dear  Aunt  Sally 
algorithm,  all  stacks  are  implemented  in  software. 
This  means  that  each  stack  reserves  a  random 
access  memory  region  and  is  supported  by  sub- 
routines to  perform  the  push  and  pop  functions. 
The  POLISH  routine  uses  an  operator  stack  to 
temporarily  store  and  reorder  the  operator  tokens 
when  creating  a  Polish  string;  the  EVAL  routine 
uses  an  operand  stack  to  temporarily  hold  values  as 
it  interprets  the  Polish  string. 

Statement:  A  statement  is  the  programming  lan- 
guage equivalent  of  a  sentence  in  a  natural  language 
such  as  English. 

String:  A  string  is  a  series  of  values  with  definite 
starting  and  ending  points.  The  parser  of  this 
article  requires  an  input  character  string  containing 
the  human  readable  codes  of  an  arithmetic  expres- 
sion, and  produces  a  Polish  string  output  of  parsed 
tokens  which  can  be  evaluated  by  the  Polish  string 
interpreter. 

Subroutine:  A  subroutine  is  a  section  of  a  program 
which  is  called  to  perform  its  function.  When 
completed,  it  returns  control  to  the  routine  which 
calls  it.  Subroutines  are  created  for  two  purposes 
when  programming:  To  modularize  a  program 
according  to  function,  and  to  share  common 
functions  and  save  memory  space. 


Numeric  character:  Any  of  the  numbers  0  through 
9. 

Operator:  An  operator  is  a  token  specifying  an 
action  to  be  taken  when  the  expression  being 
parsed  is  evaluated.  My  Dear  Aunt  Sally  recognizes 
two  kinds  of  operators:  Single  character  operators 
are  used  to  denote  the  conventional  arithmetic 
operations;  multiple  character  operators  are  recog- 
nized by  a  dollar  sign  (as  in  $SIN)  and  are  used  for 
mathematical  functions. 

Parenthesis:  Left  and  right  parentheses  are  used  to 
group  operations  in  mathematical  expressions.  The 
only  requirement  for  consistent  evaluation  of 
expressions  is  that  left  and  right  parentheses  must 
balance. 

Parser:  A  computer  program  mechanism  for  per- 
forming the  parsing  function. 

Parsing:  Given  a  set  of  syntax  rules  (a  grammar) 
and    an    input    string,    parsing    is    the    process    of 


Symbol  table:  A  central  collection  of  the  variable 
names  used  in  a  program,  along  with  related 
information.  For  the  My  Dear  Aunt  Sally  parser,  a 
symbol  table  would  be  composed  of  the  variable 
token  (a  character  string)  and  current  numeric 
value  for  each  variable  found  while  parsing  a 
statement.  Note  that  the  My  Dear  Aunt  Sally 
algorithm  by  itself  does  not  provide  a  means  for 
setting  the  value  of  variables;  an  extension  of  the 
software  into  a  full  interpretive  high  level  language 
with  an  assignment  statement  would  provide  such  a 
means. 

Token:  A  token  is  a  basic  unit  of  the  syntax  of  an 
expression.  In  the  My  Dear  Aunt  Sally  parser, 
tokens  are  character  strings  collected  and  returned 
by  NEXTOKEN  along  with  an  indication  of 
syntactical  type. 

Variable:  A  variable  is  a  symbolically  named  data 
location.  The  parser  of  this  article  detects  variables 
as  character  string  names  which  begin  with  an 
alphabetic  character. 


25 


You  don't  need  high- 
powered  compiler  theory 
to  process  your  own 
algebraic  expressions  — 
all  you  need  are  a  few 
variations  on  one  basic 
idea,  developed  in 
West  Germany  . . . 


Processing 
Algebraic  Expressions 


W  Douglas  Maurer 
University  Library   Room  634 
George  Washington  University 
Washington  DC    20052 


To  the  amateur  programmer,  algebraic 
expression  processing  may  seem  a  formida- 
ble obstacle.  How  do  you  write  a  program 
which  takes  a  character  string  like 
2+3*(4-(1 4/7-1))  as  input,  and  produces 
the  right  answer  —  in  this  case  1 1  —  as 
output?  The  programmer  seeking  answers  to 
such  questions  is  usually  led  to  a  collection 
of  sources  on  compiler  theory,  and  to 
arcane-sounding  terms  like  "recursive  de- 
scent," "top-down  and  bottom-up  parsing," 
and  the  like.  These  were  developed  for  use 
by  the  compiler  writer,  although  even  com- 
piler writers  find  much  of  compiler  theory 
interesting  for  theoretical  purposes  only. 
The  net  result  has  been,  in  all  too  many 
instances,  to  scare  the  ordinary  programmer 
away  from  algebraic  expressions  entirely  —  a 
decidedly  unfortunate  state  of  affairs. 

Most  people  who  do  work  with  algebraic 
expressions  in  a  small  system  setting  have 
made  use  of  what  is  called  "Polish  nota- 
tion." Although  we  shall  describe  Polish 
notation  next  month,  the  warning  must 
be  given  that  Polish  notation  can  be  misused 
as  easily  as  it  can  be  used.  The  much  more 
direct  method  which  we  shall  describe  was 
developed  by  F.L.  Bauer  and  K.  Samelson  at 
the  Technische  Hochschule  in  Munich, 
Germany.  We  refer  to  it  as  the  "Bauer- 
Samelson  algorithm." 

Before  describing  the  Bauer-Samelson  al- 
gorithm, let  us  first  take  up  a  number  of 
elementary  points  about  the  processing  of 
algebraic  expressions.  The  input  to  any 
algebraic     expression     processor     will,     of 


course,  be  a  string  of  characters.  These  are 
given  in  some  sort  of  character-code  format, 
and  there  are  as  many  such  formats  as  there 
are  computers.  Even  the  number  of  bits  per 
character  varies  from  one  system  to  another. 
Some  systems  use  five  bits  per  character, 
some  six,  some  seven,  but  most  use  eight  — 
the  standard  IBM  360  (and  370)  "byte." 

Since  there  are  26  letters  in  the  alphabet, 
at  least  26  different  codes  must  be  used.  To 
find  out  how  many  bits  are  needed  to 
represent  that  many  codes,  we  take  the  next 
higher  power  of  2,  in  this  case  32,  or  2-\ 
There  are  32  different  possible  codes  in  5 
bits  (from  00000  to  11111).  Therefore  5 
bits  are  enough  to  represent  the  26  letters  of 
the  alphabet;  whereas  4  bits  would  not  be, 
because  there  are  only  16  possible  codes  in  4 
bits  (from  0000  to  1111).  If  we  wish  to 
represent  digits  as  well,  we  need  26  +  10  = 
36  codes.  Now  five  bits  are  not  enough,  and 
we  must  take  the  power  of  2  next  higher 
than  36,  that  is  64  =  26.  There  are  64 
possible  codes  in  six  bits,  and  six  bits  are 
what  is  used  on  many  big  computers  —  the 
UNIVAC  1106,  the  CDC  6400,  and  the 
obsolete  IBM  7094.  (The  PDP-10,  DEC's 
biggie,  has  two  character  code  schemes;  one 
uses  six  bits,  the  other  uses  seven.)  Once  we 
have  64  codes,  of  course,  we  can  represent 
characters  other  than  letters  and  digits,  such 
as  +,  — ,  *,  /,  =,  parentheses,  period  and 
comma,  and  so  on  —  known  as  special 
characters.  Where  five  bit  codes  are  used,  the 
special  characters  include  shift  characters, 
analogous  to  the  shift  key  on  a  typewriter, 


26 


enabling  us  to  pass  from  one  group  of  32 
codes  (including  the  shift  characters  them- 
selves) to  another  such  group  and  back. 

Once  we  know  how  many  bits  are  in  a 
character,  the  choice  of  the  actual  character 
codes  is  still  quite  variable  from  one  com- 
puter to  another.  There  is  a  "standard"  code 
called  ASCII,  or  American  Standard  Code 
for  Information  Interchange.  But  this,  as  its 
name  suggests,  is  a  standard  code  for  infor- 
mation interchange  (between  different  com- 
puters) only,  and  many  individual  computer 
makers  continue  to  use  their  own  code 
schemes. 

All  of  the  codes  in  common  use,  however, 
share  certain  characteristics.  One  of  the  most 
important  of  these  is  that  the  codes  for  the 
digits  are  all  consecutive.  That  is,  whatever 
the  code  for  zero  is  (and  this  is  quite 
variable),  the  code  for  7,  say,  is  7  more  than 
the  code  for  zero.  This  is  quite  helpful  to  us 
in  finding  the  binary  equivalents  of  integers. 
Another  common  characteristic  of  character 
codes  is  that  the  codes  for  letters  of  the 
alphabet  are  given  in  numerical  order 
(although  not  always  consecutively).  Thus 
the  code  for  T,  for  example,  will  be  greater 
than  the  code  for  R,  because  T  follows  R  in 
alphabetical  order;  but  it  will  not  always  be 
true  that  the  code  for  T  is  2  more  than  the 
code  for  R. 

A  sequence  of  characters  is  given  in  a 
character  array.  On  a  byte  machine,  charac- 
ter arrays  are  easy  to  index.  As  soon  as  we 
have  loaded  the  first  character  in  our  array 
into  a  register,  we  add  1  to  our  index  register 
(or  indirect  address  location)  and  we  are 
immediately  set  up  to  load  the  next  charac- 
ter. If  we  are  working  on  a  machine  which 
holds  more  than  one  character  per  word  — 
such  as  a  16  bit  or  18  bit  machine  —  our  best 
course,  when  processing  character  strings  (of 
limited  size)  is  usually  to  unpack  them  into  a 
word  array  in  which  one  character  is  con- 
tained in  each  word.  This  is  illustrated,  for  a 
16  bit  machine,  in  figure  1.  After  unpacking, 
the  characters  may  be  processed  in  the  same 
way  as  given  above. 

We  will  thus  have  an  index  in  our 
program  which  is  initialized  to  point  to  the 
first  character  in  our  array,  and  which  is 
incremented,  after  we  are  through  processing 
that  character,  to  point  to  succeeding  char- 
acters in  the  array.  Let  us  now  turn  to  the 
question  of  how  these  characters  should  be 
processed. 

Suppose,  first  of  all,  that  we  load  a 
character  into  a  register  and  discover  that  it 
is  a  digit.  Our  first  job  should  be  to  find  out 
whether  any  of  the  characters  immediately 
following  this  one  are  also  digits.  Since 
numbers  are  stored  internally  in  binary  form 
in  almost  all   computers,  a  string  of  digits 


Figure  7:  Unpacking  characters  on  a  16  bit 
machine. 

representing  an  integer  will  have  to  be 
converted  to  this  form  for  further  proc- 
essing. Let  us  assume  that  we  have  a  cell 
called  NUMBER  which  is  initialized  to  zero. 
Then  our  algorithm  for  finding  the  binary 
value  of  a  string  of  digits  is  as  follows: 

1.  Check  the  current  character.  If  it  is 
not  a  digit,  stop. 

2.  Multiply  NUMBER  by  10;  add  the 
current  character;  and  subtract  the  character 
code  for  zero. 

3.  Advance  to  the  next  character  in  the 
string  and  go  back  to  step  1. 

Thus  for  the  character  string  327,  we 
perform  0X10  =  0,  0  +  3  =  3;  then  3X10  = 
30,  30  +  2  =  32;  and  finally  32  X  10  =  320, 
320  +  7  =  327  —  all  in  internal  binary  form. 
Each  time  we  add  the  value  of  the  next  digit, 
which  is  equivalent  to  adding  the  character 
code  for  the  digit  itself  and  then  subtracting 
the  character  code  for  zero. 

Now  suppose  that,  instead  of  a  digit,  we 
find  the  character  code  for  a  letter  of  the 
alphabet.  The  normal  rule  here  is  to  look  for 
letters  and  digits  following  this  letter  and  to 
keep  them  in  a  string.  Once  we  have  found 
the  first  character  that  is  neither  a  letter  nor 
a  digit,  the  letters  and  the  digits  that  we  have 
gathered  so  far  constitute  an  identifier, 
which  we  may  process  further  in  a  number 
of  ways,  depending  on  the  way  in  which  we 
are  processing  algebraic  expressions. 

As  an  example,  consider  the  expression 
ALPHA*BETA+GAMMA*DELTA.  We  load 
the  first  character,  namely  A,  into  a  register. 
Since  this  is  a  letter,  we  keep  looking  for 


27 


letters  and  digits,  and  we  find  L,  P,  H,  and 
A.  All  of  these  characters  are  kept  in  a 
string.  When  we  get  to  the  *,  the  characters 
we  have  kept  in  our  string  so  far  constitute 
the  identifier  ALPHA.  How  we  process  this 
identifier  depends  on  what  it  is  supposed  to 
mean.  Is  it  a  constant  with  a  defined  value? 
In  that  case  the  value  is  presumably  in  a 
table,  and  we  can  look  it  up.  Or  perhaps  the 
purpose  of  processing  this  character  string  is 
to  give  this  identifier  some  constant  value. 
For  example,  suppose  the  string  were 
ALPHA=3  and  suppose  we  were  processing 
this  in  such  a  way  as  to  put  the  the  value  3 
in  a  table,  corresponding  to  the  identifier 
ALPHA.  In  this  case,  when  we  reach  the 
character  =,  we  can  put  ALPHA  into  our 
table,  and  then  later  put  in  the  value. 

Much  algebraic  expression  processing  in- 
volves special  identifiers,  or  identifiers  which 
are  to  be  processed  differently  from  the 
others  —  such  as  SIN,  COS,  and  SQRT,  or, 
perhaps,  IF,  STOP,  and  GOTO.  All  special 
identifiers  should  be  collected  into  a  table, 
and  every  time  we  recognize  an  identifier  — 
that  is,  at  the  point  in  our  program  at  which 
we  have  encountered  a  character  that  is  not 
a  letter  or  a  digit,  so  that  we  know  that  the 
characters  we  have  accumulated  so  far  con- 
stitute an  identifier  —  this  table  should  be 
searched,  to  see  whether  any  of  its  entries 
are  equal  to  the  current  identifier.  For  each 
special  identifier,  we  will  then  have  a  sub- 
routine, or  a  section  of  our  program,  which 
handles  it. 

Let  us  now  see  what  happens  when,  in 
the  processing  of  our  character  string,  we 
encounter  an  operator  —  a  character  such  as 
+»  —)  *,  I,  or  parentheses.  This  is  where  we 
use  the  Bauer-Samelson  algorithm. 

The  Bauer-Samelson  algorithm  uses  two 
stacks  —  one  for  operators  and  one  for 
operands.  Many  programmers,  although  they 
understand  the  basic  idea  of  a  stack,  have 
never  actually  written  a  stack-oriented  pro- 
gram. The  easiest  way  to  do  this  is  by  using 
an  array  —  call  it  S  —  together  with  a  current 
length  for  the  array,  which  we  may  call  LS. 
At  the  start  of  our  program,  LS  is  set  to 
zero.  To  put  the  quantity  X  on  top  of  the 
stack,  or,  as  we  call  it,  to  push  down  X  on 
the  stack,  we  perform 

IF  LS  =  MAX 

THEN  GOTO  OVERFLOW 
LS:  =  LS  +  1 
S(LS):=X 

where  MAX  is  the  dimension  of  the  array  S, 
and  we  transfer  to  OVERFLOW  if  we  have 
stack  overflow,  that  is,  if  the  stack  has 
grown  too  large.  Pushing  down  X  on  the 
stack,  of  course,  puts  X  on  top  of  the  stack 


while  preserving  all  quantities  on  the  stack 
that  were  previously  put  there.  To  take  the 
quantity  X  off  the  top  of  the  stack,  or,  as  we 
say,  to  pop  up  X  from  the  stack,  we  perform 

IF  LS=0  THEN  GOTO  EMPTY 

X:=S(LS) 

LS:  =  LS  -  1 

where  we  transfer  to  EMPTY  if  the  stack 
was  empty  when  we  tried  to  pop  it.  (This  is 
usually  not  an  error  condition,  but  normally 
means  that  our  stack  process  has  termi- 
nated.) Of  course,  in  the  Bauer-Samelson 
algorithm,  since  we  have  two  stacks,  we  may 
call  them  S1  and  S2,  with  corresponding 
current  lengths  LS1  and  LS2,  both  of  which 
are  initially  set  to  zero. 

In  order  to  follow  the  operation  of  the 
Bauer-Samelson  algorithm,  we  shall  have  to 
understand  the  basic  idea  of  precedence  of 
operators.  Taking  the  five  operators  +,  — ,  *, 
/,  and  **  (the  last  of  these  denoting  expo- 
nentiation), we  shall  assign  to  each  one  a 
number  called  its  precedence,  as  follows: 


The  easiest  way  to  understand  precedence  is 
to  consider  what  would  happen  if  we  didn't 
have  it.  For  example,  let  us  look  at  the 
expression  2*5+3*4.  Suppose  we  tried  to 
find  the  value  of  this  expression  in  the 
following  way:  2  times  5  is  10,  plus  3  is  13, 
times  4  is  52.  Clearly,  this  would  be  the 
wrong  answer.  What  we  want  to  do  is  to 
perform  the  multiplications  first,  namely  2 
times  5  is  10  and  3  times  4  is  12,  and  then 
add  together  the  resulting  values,  10  and  12. 
Since  we  perform  the  multiplications  before 
the  addition,  we  say  that  multiplication  (as 
an  operator)  has  higher  precedence  than 
addition.  The  numbers  which  we  have 
assigned  to  the  operators  reflect  this  fact; 
that  is,  2  (the  precedence  of  multiplication) 
is  higher  than  1  (the  precedence  of 
addition). 

We  shall  now  describe  the  basic  opera- 
tions of  the  Bauer-Samelson  algorithm.  The 
algorithm  proceeds  by  scanning  over  the 
characters  of  the  given  string  from  left  to 
right.  Every  time  we  encounter  an  operand 
—  a  constant  or  a  variable  —  while  we  are 
doing  this,  we  place  it  on  the  operand  stack 
S1.  Every  time  we  encounter  an  operator, 
we  try  to  place  it  on  the  operator  stack  S2. 
This  is  not  done  unless  the  precedence  test  is 
satisfied;  that  is,  unless  the  precedence  of 
the  given  operator  is  higher  than  that  of  the 


28 


operator  at  the  top  of  the  stack  (or  unless 
the  operator  stack  is  empty).  If  the  prece- 
dence test  is  not  satisfied,  we  remove  an 
operator  from  the  top  of  the  stack  S2, 
remove  its  operand  or  operands  from  the  top 
of  SI,  calculate  a  result,  and  put  this  result 
back  on  SI.  This  is  called  unstacking  an 
operator.  We  continue  to  unstack  all  opera- 
tors from  S2  until  the  precedence  test  is 
satisfied.  When  we  reach  the  end  of  the 
entire  original  string,  we  unstack  all  opera- 
tors from  S2. 

An  example  should  make  this  clear. 
Suppose  we  have  the  string  2*5+3*4  men- 
tioned earlier,  and  we  are  trying  to  calculate 
its  value,  which  is  in  this  case  not  52  but  22. 
In  the  following  analysis,  we  shall  denote  the 
contents  of  a  stack  by  several  quantities  in 
parentheses,  with  the  last  of  these  quantities 
denoting  the  top  of  the  stack.  Thus  (10,3,4) 
as  the  contents  of  the  stack  SI  means  that 
the  number  4  is  at  the  top  of  this  stack.  The 
Bauer-Samelson  algorithm  proceeds  in  this 
case  as  follows: 

1.  The  2  goes  on  the  stack  SI. 

2.  The  first  *  goes  on  the  stack  S2.  (The 
precedence  test  is  satisfied,  since  the  stack 
S2  was  empty.) 

3.  The  5  goes  on  the  stack  S1,  which 
now  contains  (2,5). 

4.  We  cannot  put  the  +  on  the  stack  S2, 
because  the  precedence  of  +  is  lower  than 
that  of  *.  Therefore  we  unstack  the  *  from 
the  operator  stack  S2.  This  means:  we  take  * 
off  the  stack  S2,  leaving  S2  empty;  we  take 
its  operands  off  the  top  of  S1  (that  is,  we 
take  5  and  2  off  S1 );  we  calculate  the  result, 
namely  2*5  =  1 0  (the  second  operand  of  any 
operator  is  always  removed  from  the  stack 
first);  and  we  put  the  10  back  on  the 
operand  stack  S1,  which  now  contains  10 
and  nothing  else. 

5.  We  are  supposed  to  keep  unstacking 
operators  until  the  precedence  test  is  satis- 
fied. At  this  point,  however,  the  precedence 
test  is  in  fact  satisfied,  since  the  operator 
stack  is  empty,  and  we  may  therefore  place 
a  +  on  the  operator  stack  and  continue. 

6.  The  3  goes  on  the  stack  SI,  which 
now  contains  (10,3). 

7.  The  *  goes  on  the  stack  S2,  which 
now  contains  (+,  *).  The  precedence  test 
succeeded  in  this  case,  since  the  precedence 
of  *  is  higher  than  that  of  +. 

8.  The  4  goes  on  the  stack  SI,  which 
now  contains  (10,3,4).  We  are  now  at  the 
end  of  the  original  string,  and  it  is  time  to 
unstack  all  the  operators  from  the  stack  S2. 

9.  The  operator  at  the  top  of  S2,  namely 
*,  is  taken  off  this  stack.  Two  operands  are 
taken  off  the  top  of  SI,  namely  4  and  3;  this 
leaves  10  on  S1.  The  result,  namely  3*4  = 


12,  is  calculated  and  placed  back  on  S1,  so 
that  S1  now  contains  (10,12). 

1 0.  The  operator  at  the  top  of  S2,  namely 
+,  is  taken  off  this  stack.  Two  operands  are 
taken  off  the  top  of  SI,  namely  12  and  10; 
this  leaves  S1  empty.  The  result,  namely 
10+12  =  22,  is  calculated  and  placed  back  on 
S1. 

11.  The  operator  stack  S2  is  now  empty; 
the  Bauer-Samelson  algorithm  has  finished; 
and  the  answer,  namely  22,  is  on  the 
operand  stack  S1.  (Unless  there  has  been  an 
error,  the  Bauer-Samelson  algorithm  will 
always  end  with  exactly  one  quantity  on 
the  operand  stack,  and  this  quantity  will  be 
the  final  result.) 

This  is  the  basic  Bauer-Samelson  al- 
gorithm. It  may  now  be  modified  and 
extended  in  a  number  of  ways. 

Let  us  first  consider  parentheses.  A  left 
parenthesis  is  treated  as  an  operator.  It  is 
always  placed  directly  on  the  operator  stack 
without  making  the  precedence  test;  that  is, 
it  is  treated  as  if  it  had  the  highest  prece- 
dence. Once  it  is  on  the  operator  stack, 
however,  it  is  treated  as  if  it  had  the  lowest 
precedence;  that  is,  any  other  operator  is 
placed  directly  above  it  on  the  stack,  or,  to 
put  it  another  way,  the  precedence  test 
always  succeeds  if  there  is  a  left  parenthesis 
at  the  top  of  the  operator  stack. 

A  right  parenthesis  is  treated  somewhat 
like  the  end  of  the  expression.  We  unstack 
all  operators  on  the  operator  stack  until  we 
come  to  a  left  parenthesis,  which  we  remove 
from  the  operator  stack  and  continue  to 
scan  the  given  string.  If  there  is  no  left 
parenthesis  on  the  operator  stack,  there  were 
too  many  right  parentheses  in  the  original 
expression.  Conversely,  if  we  come  to  the 
end  of  our  string  and  start  unstacking 
operators,  and  one  of  these  is  a  left  paren- 
thesis, then  there  were  too  many  left  paren- 
theses in  the  original  expression. 

As  an  example  of  the  use  of  parentheses, 
we  consider  the  expression 
2+4*(5-(6-3))/8,  the  value  of  which  is  3. 
We  shall  again  "walk  through"  the  Bauer- 
Samelson  algorithm  as  it  scans  this  string. 
This  time,  however,  we  shall  use  an  abbre- 
viated notation.  In  the  second  column 
below,  marked  action,  we  use  one  of  the 
following  codes: 

O  (Operand)  —  An  operand  is  placed  on 
the  operand  stack. 

S  (Succeed)  —  The  precedence  test 
succeeds,  and  therefore  an  operator  is  placed 
on  the  operator  stack. 

U  (Unstack)  —  The  precedence  test  fails 
(or  else  we  are  at  the  end  of  the  expression, 
or  at  a  right  parenthesis),  and  thus  an 
operator  is  unstacked. 


29 


Table     1:     Calculation 
2+4*(5-(6-3))/8. 


of    the     value  of 


Current 

Operand 

Operator 

Character 

Action 

Stack 

Stack 

2 

0 

12) 

Empty 

+ 

S 

(2) 

(+) 

4 

0 

(2,4) 

(+) 

* 

S 

(2,4) 

(+,*) 

( 

L 

(2,4) 

l+.\L) 

5 

0 

(2,4,5) 

(+.\U 

- 

S 

(2,4,5) 

<+,*,L,-> 

1 

L 

(2,4,5) 

(+,\L,-,L) 

6 

O 

(2,4,5,6) 

(+,*,L,-,L) 

— 

s 

(2,4,5,6) 

(+,M-,-,L,-) 

3 

0 

(2,4,5,6,3) 

(+,\L,-,L,-) 

) 

u 

(2,4,5,3) 

(+,*,L,-,L) 

R 

(2,4,5,3) 

(+/.U-) 

) 

U 

(2,4,2) 

(+,*,D 

R 

(2,4,2) 

(+,*) 

/ 

U 

(2,8) 

(+) 

S 

(2,8) 

(+,/) 

8 

0 

(2,8,8) 

(+,/) 

End 

U 

(2,1) 

(+) 

u 

(3) 

Empty 

L  (Left  parenthesis)  -  A  left  parenthesis 
is  placed  on  the  operator  stack.  (This  is 
denoted  by  L  in  table  1. 

R  (Remove  left  parenthesis)  —  A  left 
parenthesis  is  removed  from  the  operator 
stack  (this  happens  after  unstacking,  when 
the  current  character  is  a  right  parenthesis). 

The  operation  of  the  Bauer-Samelson 
algorithm  in  this  case  can  now  be  expressed 
by  means  of  table  1. 

Of  course,  the  "current  character"  col- 
umn in  table  1  takes  advantage  of  the  fact 
that  every  operator  and  every  operand  in  our 
example  program  consists  of  a  single  charac- 
ter. In  a  more  general  case,  this  column 
would  be  headed  "current  operator  or  op- 
erand." 

Let  us  now  consider  unary  operators. 
Superficially,  there  is  no  difference  between 
a  unary  and  a  binary  operator  from  our 
point  of  view,  except  that  when  we  unstack 
a  unary  operator  we  must  remove  only  one 
operand,  rather  than  two,  from  the  operand 


Table     2:     Calculation 
-S-(-3-4). 

Current     Current 
Label       Character    Action 


of    the     value  of 


Operand     Operator 
Stack  Stack 


L1 

— 

S 

Empty 

(U) 

L1 

5 

0 

(5) 

(U) 

L2 

- 

U 

(-5) 

Empty 

s 

(-5) 

(-) 

L1 

( 

L 

(-5) 

K  L) 

L1 

— 

S 

(-5) 

(-,L,U) 

L1 

3 

0 

(-5,3) 

1-L.U) 

L2 

- 

u 

(-5,-3) 

l-.L) 

s 

(-5,-3) 

(-L-) 

L1 

4 

0 

(-5,-3,4) 

(-,L-> 

L2 

) 

u 

(-5,-7) 

KL) 

R 

(-5,-7) 

(-) 

L2 

End 

U 

(2) 

Empty 

stack.  However,  when  we  put  the  unary 
minus  sign  on  the  operand  stack,  we  must  be 
careful  to  identify  it  as  a  unary,  rather  than 
a  binary  minus  sign,  so  that  we  know  how 
many  operands  to  take  off  the  stack  SI .  This 
in  turn  means  that  we  are  going  to  have  to 
be  able  to  tell  the  difference  between  a 
unary  and  a  binary  minus  sign  as  we  are 
scanning  our  string. 

The  simplest  way  to  do  this  is  to  think  of 
our  Bauer-Samelson  algorithm  as  having 
two  basic  labels,  which  we  shall  call  LI  and 
L2.  We  start  off  at  LI  (after  all  necessary 
initializations).  When  we  are  at  L1,  we  are 
expecting  to  find  an  operand.  If  we  find  one, 
we  put  it  on  the  stack  S1,  and  go  to  L2. 
When  we  are  at  L2,  we  are  expecting  to  find 
an  operator.  If  we  find  one,  it  will  be  a 
binary  operator;  we  put  it  on  the  stack  S2 
(after  any  necessary  unstacking)  and  go  back 
to  L1.  But  if  we  are  at  L1  and  we  find  an 
operator,  it  must  be  a  unary  operator;  we 
put  it  on  S2,  after  unstacking  if  necessary, 
and  then  return  to  L1. 

Suppose  now  that  we  find  a  right  paren- 
thesis. Then  we  must  be  at  L2  (if  we  are  at 
L1,  we  have  an  error  in  the  string  we  are 
scanning).  We  perform  all  necessary  unstack- 
ing, remove  a  left  parenthesis  from  the 
operator  stack  as  described  above  —  and 
then  return  to  L2,  since  we  are  now  expect- 
ing a  binary  operator.  If  we  find  an  operand 
at  L2,  this  is  also  an  error  condition.  If  we 
find  a  left  parenthesis  (of  the  type  that  we 
have  so  far  described),  we  should  be  at  L1; 
we  put  it  on  the  operator  stack  and  then 
return  to  L1,  since  we  are  again  expecting  to 
find  an  operand. 

This  interplay  between  L1  and  L2  may  be 
illustrated  by  the  following  example,  con- 
taining two  unary  and  two  binary  minus 
signs,  in  addition  to  parentheses.  For  the 
moment,  we  shall  consider  a  unary  minus 
sign  to  have  precedence  equal  to  2.  A  binary 
minus  on  the  stack  S2  will  be  denoted  by 
'— ',  a  unary  minus  by  U,  and  a  left  paren- 
thesis by  L.  The  codes  in  the  "action" 
column  are  as  in  the  preceding  example.  The 
string  to  be  scanned  is  —5— (—3— 4);  its 
value,  which  is  2,  is  calculated  by  the 
Bauer-Samelson  algorithm  as  in  table  2. 

It  is,  incidentally,  a  matter  of  controversy 
as  to  what  the  precedence  of  the  unary 
minus  should  be.  It  should  clearly  be  lower 
than  that  of  exponentiation  (thus—  X**N  is 
clearly  -(X**N),  and  not  (-X)**N)  and 
higher  than  that  of  addition  (thus  — X+Y  is 
clearly  (-X)+Y,  and  not  -(X+Y)).  What 
about  — X*Y,  however?  The  two  expressions 
(-X)*Y  and  -(X*Y)  are  equal,  and  the 
same  is  true  of  (-X)/Y  and  -(X/Y).  It  is  not 
clear  which  choice  leads  to  the  greatest 
efficiency  of  calculation." 


30 


New  England  Seminar  on  Computers  in  the 
Laboratory 

The  New  England  Section  of  the  Society 
for  Applied  Spectroscopy  and  the  Analytical 
Section,  American  Chemical  Society  (New 
England)  announce  a  seminar  series,  Auto- 
mation and  the  Laboratory  -  1976.  This 
seminar,  open  to  non-members  of  the 
sponsoring  organizations,  is  aimed  at  the 
scientist,  professional  researcher  or  engineer 
with  little  or  no  formal  training  in 
computers  and  digital  electronics.  The 
course  is  designed  to  cover  laboratory 
automation  topics  ranging  in  scope  from  the 
smallest  microcomputer  systems  to  tradi- 
tional large  scale  installations.  Speakers  are 
from  the  local  universities,  industry  and 
computer  publications. 

All  sessions  will  be  Thursday  nights,  6:30 
to  9:30,  at  the  Hartwell  Avenue  facility  of 
IL  Inc.,  Lexington  MA  02173.  The  fee  for 
individuals  who  are  not  members  of  the 
sponsoring  societies  is  $30  for  the  whole 
series,  $5  for  individual  lectures.  Each 
session  will  be  divided  into  two  segments 
separated  by  a  coffee  break  with  refresh- 
ments. For  details  contact  Marti  Bancfroft 
at: 

IL  Inc. 

Jonspin  Road 
Wilmington   MA  01887 

or,  by  phone  during  business  hours  at 
617-658-5125  Extension  40 

If  you  have  been  out  of  school  five  years  and 
are  a  little  frustrated  by  computereeze,  this 
seminar  is  for  you.  It  should  be  especially 
appropriate  if  you  are  considering  the  use  of 
laboratory  data  processing  equipment. 

MICROCOMPUTER  PROFILE 

(A  One  Day  Technology  Update) 

A  survey  and  update  on  microcomputers 
and  how  they  make  it  easier  to  use  micro- 
processors, presented  with  hands-on  demon- 
strations and  important  survey  materials. 
Seven  offerings  during  March  1976:  Los 
Angeles,  Chicago,  Ottawa,  Boston,  Washing- 
ton DC,  Dallas,  and  San  Diego.  Fee:  $165 
includes  survey  papers,  course  notes, 
reprints,  coffee  breaks  and  luncheon.  For 
information:  Technology  Service  Corpora- 
tion, 281 1  Wilshire  Boulevard,  Santa  Monica 
CA  90403.  Telephone:  (213)  829-7411. 


An  Update  on  the  SCCS  Computer  Purchase 

Hal  Lashlee,  SCCS  treasurer,  reports  the 
following  progress  on  the  Los  Angeles 
group's  DEC  LSI-11  purchase.  First,  the 
SCCS  has  changed  its  commission  to  7%  of 
the  purchase  price  (larger  donations  are 
solicited).  Second,  the  first  order  of  50 
machines  has  been  placed  with  DEC  now 
that  the  minimum  number  has  been  reached. 
Third,  SCCS  now  has  an  OEM  arrangement 
with  DEC  and  will  continue  to  coordinate 
purchases  of  the  LSI-11  and  related  equip- 
ment. Individuals  interested  in  an  LSI-11 
should  contact  Hal  at  the  SCCS  post  office 
box  address: 

Southern  California  Computer  Society 

PO  Box  987 

South  Pasadena  CA  91030 


Now — a  lower- priced  and  easy  way 
to  save  your  Altair  8800  programs 


__  JJ  3VTFSlVf::' 

Hiiii(tiJi»;;;;i;iJiiiiiiiiJiiiHii(Hiii."T  ™ 

Cromemco's  BYTESAVER™ 
memory  board  makes  it  simple  to 
save  your  Altair  8800  programs. 
That's  because  (1)  the  BYTE- 
SAVER™  has  a  built-in  PROM 
programmer  and  (2)  holds  up  to  8k 
of  PROM  or  ROM  memory. 

Having  its  own  programmer  lets 
you  transfer  programs  directly  from 
the  computer  RAM  to  the  BYTE- 
SAVER™  PROMS. 

Then  your  programs  can't  be 
lost  since  the  BYTESAVER™ 
keeps  its  memory  content  even 
when  you  turn  off  the  computer. 
Great  when  developing  software. 

The  BYTESAVER™  is  fast 
and  good  sized  —  holds  up  to  8k  of 


•  Has  butlt-in  PROM  programmer 
and  a  memory  of  up  to  8k 

•  Holds  memory  content 
indefinitely 

•  Permits  full  computer  speed 

•  Erasable 

PROM  or  ROM  memory. 

Yet  it's  priced  much  less  than  a 
separate  programmer  itself. 

The  BYTESAVER™  plugs  dir- 
ectly into  your  Altair  8800. 
Accepts  new  2704  512-byte  or 
2708  1k-byte  PROMS  both  of 
which  permit  full  computer  speed. 
Erasable  with  UV.  The  disable 
switch  prevents  accidental  pro- 
gramming. 

Comes  with  one  2704  PROM 
and  either  kit  or  assembled. 


Order  now  from  a  growing  com- 
puter peripherals  firm. 

And  watch  for  another  new 
product  to  be  announced  soon. 


ORDER  INFO: 

BYTESAVER™  kit  (Model  8KBS-K)      $195 

BYTESAVER™  assembled  (Model  8KBS-W}      S295 

Shipped  prepaid  if  fully  paid  with  order.  Calif,  users  add  6%  sales  tax. 

Mastercharge  and  BankAmericard  accepted  with  signed  order. 


Q 


CROMEMCO 

Specialists  in  computer  peripherals 
One  F  irst  St.,  Los  A  Itos,  CA.,  94022  < 


(415)  941-2967 


31 


Data  Paths 


Gary  Liming 
3152  Santiago  Dr 
Florissant  MO  63033 


Data  transmission  in  a 
broader  sense  doesn't  have 
to  mean  large  networks  of 
computers  and  remote 
terminals. 


Data  transmission  usually  brings  to  mind 
terminals,  telephone  lines,  satellites,  and 
large  computer  centers.  Computer  links  in 
retail  stores,  banks,  airlines  and  government 
agencies  are  becoming  more  and  more  wide- 
spread. Such  large  scale  operations  can  easily 
cost  millions  of  dollars  and  are  thus  out  of 
the  range  of  the  hobbyist.  The  prospect  of 
linking  home  systems  across  distances  for 
program  swapping  and  interactive  games  will 
undoubtedly  become  more  a  possibility  as 
the  technology  improves. 

However,  data  transmission  in  a  broader 
sense  doesn't  have  to  mean  large  networks  of 
computers  and  remote  terminals.  It  is 
defined  as  the  process  of  sending  error  free 
bits  from  one  place  to  another,  and  applies 
to  all  digital  systems  regardless  of  com- 
plexity. In  this  article  we  illustrate  some 
data  transmission  principles  applied  to 
hobby  system  design,  over  distances  ranging 
from  the  length  of  printed  circuit  foil  runs 
on  a  circuit  card  to  the  extremely  long 
distances  involved  in  phone  or  radio  links. 

Communication  Theory 

Data  transmission  is  part  of  the  broader 
subject  of  communication  theory  which  is 
used  to  analyze  communication  systems. 
Any  communication  system  has  three  parts: 
a  message  source,  a  medium,  and  a  receiver. 
To  communicate,  information  of  some  kind 
must  be  transferred.  Information  is  defined 
simply  as  an  orderly  representative  signal. 
Orderly  means  that  the  signal  is  sent  in  a 
known  format  which  can  be  interpreted  and 
decoded  by  the  receiver.  Representative 
means  that  there  is  agreement  between 
source  and  receiver  upon  what  the  signal  will 
mean.  A  signal  could  be  a  series  of  printed 
characters,  a  bell,  a  whistle  or  even  a  color. 
The  smallest  unit  of  information  is  the  bit, 
representing  only  an  on  off  or  yes  no 
condition.  One  or  a  series  of  these  fun- 
damental bit  signals  makes  up  the  message  in 
digital  communications. 

Any  medium  that  can  transfer  a  message 
has  limits,  and  the  medium  within  these 
limits  is  called  the  channel .  The  limits  which 


define  a  channel  might  be  physical  prop- 
erties such  as  the  technologically  available 
bandwidth,  or  human  defined  limits  such  as 
an  arbitrary  FCC  ruling  that  a  radio  station 
is  allocated  a  particular  set  of  frequencies 
with  a  prescribed  bandwidth  for  its  signals. 
Noise  is  defined  as  any  signal  that  interferes 
with  the  message,  like  radio  static  or  dirt  on 
a  camera  lens. 

A  communication  that  works  one-way,  or 
does  not  allow  information  to  be  mutually 
exchanged  is  called  a  simplex  transmission  or 
communication.  If  information  can  be 
exchanged,  it  is  called  a  duplex  system. 
There  are  two  kinds  of  duplex  systems:  If 
information  can  be  sent  between  two  points 
simultaneously,  it  is  called  a  full  duplex 
system;  if  the  information  can  be  transferred 
in  both  directions  but  not  at  the  same  time, 
it  is  called  —  you  guessed  it  —  half  duplex. 
Figure  1  illustrates  the  various  kinds  of 
communications  exchanges. 

Let's  apply  this  to  a  simple  example  — 
consider  the  page  you  are  looking  at.  The 
author  is  the  message  source,  you  are  the 
receiver,  and  paper  and  ink  are  the  medium. 
The  size  of  the  page  sets  the  channel  limits, 
and  ink  blots  or  printing  errors  comprise 
noise.  Communication  is  simplex.  When  a 
reader  replies,  it  has  become  half  duplex. 

This  point  of  view  can  be  applied  at 
different  levels  to  your  system  design.  Inte- 
grated circuits,  printed  circuit  boards, 
peripherals  and  terminals  can  all  be  con- 
sidered sources  and  receivers.  They  all  use 
the  bit  as  the  common  unit  of  information. 

An  important  factor  in  data  communi- 
cations is  the  data  or  transmission  rate  at 
which  the  bits  are  transferred.  This  is  mea- 
sured, naturally,  in  bits  per  second  (abbrevi- 
ated b/s).  It  is  on  this  simple  point  that 
many  newcomers  first  get  into  trouble  by 
using  the  term  baud.  Baud  has  a  different 
meaning  which  can  be  ambiguous,  as  we  will 
see  when  we  look  at  modulation  methods 
and  modems. 

Another  important  parameter  of  informa- 
tion transmission  is  the  error  rate,  measured 
by   the  number  of  bits  in  error  out  of  the 


32 


Simplex: 


Half  Duplex: 


Full  Duplex: 


&  ^»- 

a/ 

-^* 

/ 

R  One  way  for  all  time. 

B  Now.  Alternating, 

B  Later.         but  one  way. 

B  Simultaneous  two  way. 


Figure  1:  The  terminology  describing  modes  of  communication  between 
sender  and  receiver  depend  upon  who  is  sending  data  and  when  the  data  is 
sent. 


Data  transmission  is  the 
process  of  sending  error 
free  bits  from  one  place  to 
another. 


total  number  transmitted.  If  your  computer 
processes  instructions  at  500  kilobytes  per 
second  which  equals  4  megabits  per  second, 
an  error  rate  of  one  in  10  million  (10**— 7) 
will  give  you  an  error  on  the  average  of  every 
2.5  seconds.  Clearly,  what  is  a  tolerable  error 
rate  depends  on  the  transmission  rate.  A 
central  processor  which  has  errors  every  2.5 
seconds  is  not  very  usable. 

Medium  Characteristics 

To  transfer  data,  the  hobbyist  can  use 
any  medium  that  will  support  a  bit  stream. 
There  isn't  any  reason  why  you  couldn't 
take  a  serial  interface  and  hook  it  up  to 
modulate  a  laser  beam.  However,  since  most 
of  the  transmission  done  by  the  hobbyist 
uses  conductors,  let's  first  look  at  small 
gauge  wire  used  as  a  communication 
channel. 

As  the  data  rate  through  the  wire 
increases,  the  bit  stream  begins  to  look  like 
an  AC  signal  passing  through  a  transmission 
line,  and  must  be  treated  as  such.  This  is  not 
necessarily  related  to  a  reversal  of  current 
flow,  like  AC,  but  is  due  to  the  fast  rise  and 
fall  times  of  the  pulses. 

Therefore,  the  channel  must  have  a  fairly 
wide  band  of  frequencies  it  can  pass  {band- 
width). It  must  pass  an  AC  signal  with 
approximately  the  same  rise  and  fall  times  as 
the  pulse  and  the  flat  portion  of  the  pulse, 
which  is  essentially  AC  at  zero  frequency. 

Conductor  properties  such  as  resitance, 
capacitance,  and  inductance  degrade  the 
quality  of  the  pulses.  The  voltage  drop  due 
to  the  resistance  of  the  wire  lowers  the 
voltage  of  the  received  pulse.  Capacitance 
between  the  signal  wire  and  the  ground  wire 
shunts  some  of  the  voltage,  and  inductance 
and  capacitance  both  provide  impedance  to 
the  flow  of  the  pulses.  Noise  induced  from 
the  environment  and  the  power  supply  will 
further  degrade  signal  quality. 

Another  problem  amateur  radio  operators 
will  be  familiar  with  is  the  skin  effect,  where 
high  frequency  current  tends  to  concentrate 
in  the  outer  layers  of  the  wire,  increasing  the 
effective   resistance.    Also,   the  propagation 


time  of  the  pulses  should  be  taken  into 
account.  Even  though  the  pulses  travel  at 
near  the  speed  of  light,  for  22  AWG  (0.79 
mm0)  wire,  the  delay  is  about  1.5  ns/ft  (4.9 
ps/cm);  a  100  foot  coaxial  cable  introduces  a 
transmission  delay  which  is  nearly  a  whole 
machine  cycle  delay  in  some  high  speed 
systems.  Indeed,  such  transmission  lines  are 
often  used  as  delay  elements  in 
oscilloscopes. 

All  these  phenomena  depend  on  the 
length  of  the  wire  and  the  frequencies  of  the 
signal.  They  can  combine  to  ruin  the  shape 
of  the  pulse  to  the  extent  that  the  logic  gates 
can  become  confused  as  to  whether  they  are 
seeing  a  zero  or  a  one.  We  conclude  then 
that  the  longer  the  wire  and  the  higher  the 
transmitted  frequencies,  the  harder  it  is  to 
get  an  acceptable  error  rate. 

Microtransmissions 

Armed  with  these  characteristics  and 
definitions,  let's  look  at  how  conductors 
affect  data  transmission  in  a  typical  proc- 
essor. To  date  hobby  systems  have  been 
predominantly  designed  with  7400  series 
TTL,  which  can  handle  clock  frequencies  up 
to  around  35  MHz,  but  are  commonly 
clocked  at  around  1  MHz.  At  1  MHz, 
characteristics  like  resistance  and  capaci- 
tance of  wires  are  not  significant  for  short 
transmissions  such  as  chip  to  chip  or  board 
to  board  transfers.  The  big  problem  inside 
systems  is  induced  high  frequency  noise  due 
to  changes  of  logic  states.  The  typical  TTL 
transition  time  of  ten  nanoseconds  has  a 
significant  harmonic  content  well  into  the 
VHF  range  of  50  to  200  MHz.  (This  is  the 
reason  your  computer  can  generate  some 
powerful  television  interference  if  it  is  not 
properly  shielded.)  The  current  surges  at  the 
power  connection  of  a  TTL  gate  which  is 
changing  state  induces  a  noise  signal,  since 
the  power  bus  is  typically  a  poor  conductor 
of  VHF. 

Thus  one  common  source  of  noise  is  a 
poorly  designed  power  supply  and  distribu- 
tion system.  Because  of  its  high  speed 
characteristics,  TTL  logic  is  very  sensitive  to 


To  communicate,  infor- 
mation of  some  kind  must 
be  transferred. 


33 


What  is  a  tolerable  error 
rate  depends  upon  the 
number  of  bits  per  second 
transferred. 


changes  in  its  supply  voltage.  The  power 
surges  of  one  gate  changing  state  can 
momentarily  drop  the  level  of  a  local  power 
distribution  wire,  affecting  its  neighboring 
integrated  circuit  and  thereby  giving  birth  to 
a.  glitch  in  the  system.  Detecting  a  glitch  is  a 
real  hassle  for  the  pros,  and  the  best  policy  is 
to  use  sound  design  practices  from  the  start. 
The  design  of  well  regulated  power  supplies 
is  a  significant  subject  in  its  own  right,  and 
will  not  be  covered  in  this  article.  Home 
brew  computer  experimenters  can  often  find 
excellent  high  current  logic  power  supplies 
in  surplus  stores. 

Noise  spikes  in  the  power  wiring  can  also 
occur  between  chips  on  the  power  paths  and 
can  spread  to  other  chips  and  boards.  These 
noise  spikes  in  the  power  wiring  are  induced 
due  to  the  inductance  of  the  printed  circuit 
foils  or  wire  wrap  wires  as  the  gates  change 
state  and  draw  a  lot  of  current.  Using  wide 
flat  power  supply  runs  in  the  PC  artwork 
will  lower  the  high  frequency  impedance  of 
the  conductors.  Problems  can  be  further 
minimized  by  placing  many  small  ceramic 
decoupling  capacitors  of  approximately  0.01 
uF  between  the  positive  power  supply  bus 
and  ground.  Use  one  decoupling  capacitor 
for  every  five  to  ten  TTL  integrated  circuits. 
Using  an  integrated  circuit  voltage  regulator 
on  each  board  will  also  help  provide  isola- 
tion of  power  supply  noise  between  boards. 

A  well  grounded  case  will  greatly  help 
reduce  environmental  noise.  The  case  will 
also  shield  you  from  your  neighbor's  com- 
plaints about  interference  with  his  television 
reception.  Another  benefit  of  a  well 
grounded  system  case  or  chassis  is  protection 
from  static  electricity.  In  a  dry  house  in 
winter,  shuffling  across  the  room  to  turn  on 
the  system  can  wipe  out  some  MOS  chips,  as 
I  know  from  bitter  experience. 

These  may  not  sound  like  important  data 
transmission  problems,  but  they  are  direct 
results  of  the  same  high  frequency  trans- 
mission characteristics  which  affect  long 
wire  links.  Troubles  that  start  with  an 
improperly  designed  power  distribution  and 
layout  scheme  are  hard  to  spot  and  correct, 
but  will  certainly  show  up  in  transmissions 
over  long  wires. 

Macrotransmissions 

Macrotransmission  problems  occur 
between  central  processors  and  peripherals. 
The  transmission  line  characteristics  become 
important:  If  the  length  of  the  wire 
approaches  the  order  of  magnitude  of  the 
wavelength  of  the  signal,  transmission  line 
effects  are  a  potential  source  of  problems. 
This  phenomenon  occurs  in  short  wires  at 
high  frequencies,  and  in  longer  wires  at 
lower  frequencies.  As  mentioned  previously, 


the  frequency  characteristics  of  TTL  logic 
circuits  changing  state  -  VHF  components 
in  the  100  MHz  range  —  are  what  tend  to 
dominate  the  transmission  line  properties  of 
long  wires  carrying  TTL  signals.  Using  the 
usual  radio  formula, 

X  =  300/f  (X  in  meters,  f  in  MHz) 

gives  wavelengths  for  the  high  frequency 
components  of  a  TTL  state  transition  which 
are  in  the  vicinity  of  three  meters  at  100 
MHz.  Thus  cables  with  lengths  of  one  or  two 
meters  should  exhibit  many  of  the  prop- 
erties of  transmission  lines  when  they  carry 
standard  TTL  signals.  Note  that  this  prop- 
erty primarily  depends  upon  the  transition 
time,  and  is  independent  of  the  actual 
number  of  transitions  per  second.  By 
slowing  the  transition  time  by  a  factor  of 
100  to  one  microsecond  or  more,  trans- 
mission line  effects  will  not  begin  to  occur 
until  cables  of  100  meters  or  more  are 
considered.  Given  some  arbitrary  length  of 
cable,  the  alternatives  open  are  to  take  into 
account  transmission  line  behavior  through 
impedance  matching  techniques,  or  to  slow 
down  the  signals  so  that  transmission  line 
effects  are  no  longer  a  consideration.  Since 
the  latter  option  produces  a  non-TTL  signal 
because  it  changes  state  too  slowly,  let's  turn 
attention  to  methods  of  compensating  for 
transmission  line  behavior. 

As  a  simple  example,  consider  two  paral- 
lel wires.  Each  wire  has  the  properties 
mentioned  before,  and  is  represented  in 
figure  2.  In  order  for  the  pulses  to  travel 
through  the  conductor  with  minimal  losses 
in  signal  quality,  each  end  of  the  cable  must 
be  terminated  properly.  Termination  of  the 


Figure  2:  Symbolic  representation  of  parallel 
wire  transmission.  The  system  is  symmetric, 
so  it  does  not  matter  whether  the  left 
terminals  are  at  the  source  and  the  right 
terminals  are  at  the  receiver  or  vice  versa. 
The  symbols  used  in  the  diagram  are  as 
follows: 

L,  inductance  of  the  wire. 

R,  resistance  of  the  wire. 

C,  capacitance  between  the  wires. 

G,  high  resistance  leakage  path 

between  the  wires. 


34 


Dear  Friends , 

You  are  invited  to  attend  the  first  annual  WORLD  ALTAIR 
COMPUTER  CONVENTION.   This  exciting  event  will  be  held 
at  the  new  MITS  factory  on  Saturday  and  Sunday,  March 
27-28,  in  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico. 

Hobby  clubs  and  individual  Altair  owners  have  been 
asked  to  bring  their  Altairs  to  Albuquerque  to 
set  up  demonstrations .   Thousands  of  dollars 
worth  of  Altair  equipment  will  be  awarded 
to  the  users  with  the  most  innovative 
demonstrations . 

Seminars  will  be  conducted  by  MITS 
engineers ,  MITS  software  writers , 
and  by  some  of  the  leading  figures 
in  the  home  computer  field. 


Since  the  new  MITS  factory  is 
located  close  to  the  Albuquerque 
Airport,  it  will  be  very 
convenient  for  out-of-town 
guests  to  attend  the 
convention.   The  entire 
Albuquerque  Airport 
Marina  Hotel  has  been 
reserved  for  this 
occasion.   This 
hotel  is  across 
the  street  from 
the  terminal 
building  and 
just  a  short 
walk  away 
from  MITS. 


Attendence  to  the 
convention  will  be 
free  (not  counting 
travel  and  hotel  costs) 
and  MITS  will  provide 
door  prizes  and  at  least 
one  free  luncheon. 


Call  or  write  for  hotel  and 
convention  reservations.   Or 
for  more  information: 

WACC/MITS 
21+50  Alamo  SE 
Albuquerque,  NM  87106 
phone  505-265-77553  or  262-1951 


With  the  help  of  the  thousands  of  Altair 
Users  and  friends  of  Altair,  it  is  hoped 
that  this  convention  will  be  one  of  the  most 
exciting  computer  events  in  the  industry. 

Thanks  from 


Ml 

Creative  Electronics 


"Altair  is  a  registered  trademark  of  MITS,  Inc. 


Photo  1:  Coaxial  cable  consists  of  a  central  conductor,  an  outer  conductive 
braid,  and  a  protective  coating.  It  is  bulky  and  expensive,  but  it  has  good 
characteristics  as  a  transmission  line  for  data. 


Photo  2:  Two  examples  of  ribbon  cable.  The  lower  example  is  a  surplus  item 
consisting  of  flat  copper  conductors  (similar  to  PC  lamination)  embedded  in  a 
plastic  carrier.  The  upper  example  is  a  more  conventional  cable  intended  for 
assembling  to  a  special  dual  in  line  package  (DIP)  plug. 


> 


m*mmi&*» 


Photo  3:  Twisted  pair  cable  is  the  only  good  data  transmission  line  which  can 

be  easily  fabricated  at  home.  Here  is  an  example  made  using  an  electric  drill 

to  do  the  twisting. 

line    involves    matching    the    characteristic 

impedance  of  the  wire  with  the  impedance 

of  receiver  and  transmitter. 

As  a  pulse  is  sent  to  the  other  end,  the 
energy  of  the  pulse  is  dissipated  by  the 
termination  of  the  wire.  If  the  wire  is  not 
terminated  properly,  a  reflection  of  the 
pulse  will  travel  back  to  the  source,  and  a 
condition  called  ringing  will  occur. 

It  is  for  this  reason  that  flip  flops  should 
never  be  used  to  directly  drive  a  line  of 
significant  distance.  Ringing  or  noise  spikes 
could  occur  on  the  line  and  enter  the  flip 
flop  circuit  and  change  its  state. 

Typical  7400  gates  have  an  impedance  of 
100  O  in  the  high  state  and  nearly  0  O  in  the 
low  state.  Almost  all  newer  small  scale  TTL 
integrated  circuits  are  diode  clamped,  pre- 
venting most  ringing  on  the  inputs.  This 
allows   wires   to   go   about  5  feet  between 


gates  without  using  external  impedance 
matching  techniques,  and  assumes  a  rela- 
tively high  speed  and  constant  impedance 
line.  If  a  standard  TTL  gate  is  used  as  the 
transmitter  in  a  data  link,  fan  out  rules  must 
be  observed  to  supply  sufficient  current.  To 
raise  the  output  voltage  of  the  pulse,  a  2.2 
kO  resistor  can  be  connected  between  the 
output  and  the  5  V  source.  This  pullup 
resistor  raises  the  output  pulse  to  a  full  5  V 
and  reduces  the  chances  of  noise  affecting 
the  line. 

For  longer  runs  at  high  speeds,  a  TTL  line 
driver  chip  like  the  74128  can  be  used  to 
provide  more  current  to  the  line.  For  even 
longer  runs  or  in  critical  applications  special 
chips  like  the  Signetics  8T13  and  8T16  are 
used  as  drivers  and  receivers  to  insure  a  low 
error  rate.  The  maximum  length  for  these 
transmissions  depends  on  the  type  of  wire 
being  used. 

Coaxial  cable  is  one  of  the  best  cables  to 
use  for  long  distance  transmission  of  digital 
data.  It  has  a  center  conductor  set  in  a  non 
conductor  with  a  metallic  braid  or  foil  (the 
shield)  wrapped  around  it.  The  shield  is  used 
as  the  ground  return  and  for  protection  from 
external  noise.  Photo  1  illustrates  a  typical 
coaxial  cable,  cut  so  its  construction  can  be 
seen.  Cables  with  a  nominal  characteristic 
impedance  of  around  100  O  are  normally 
used  in  order  to  match  gate  terminations. 
Coaxial  cable  has  the  disadvantage  of  being 
inflexible  and  bulky,  especially  if  many 
wires  have  to  be  terminated  in  a  small  area. 
An  even  worse  disadvantage  is  its  high  cost. 
Coax  is  usually  used  when  other  wires  aren't 
suitable. 

Flat  ribbon  cable,  which  usually  has  every 
other  conductor  grounded,  provides  a  con- 
stant impedance  and  reduces  the  chance  of 
wires  inducing  signals  on  each  other.  Ribbon 
cable  for  the  hobbyist  is  still  rather  expen- 
sive, and  special  connectors  generally  must 
be  used.  Photo  2  shows  two  types  of  ribbon 
cable:  flexible  copper  strips  in  plastic,  and 
multiple  stranded  wires. 

Twisted  pair  wire  is  the  most  cost  effec- 
tive transmission  line  for  long  runs  in  hobby 
systems.  This  kind  of  cable  can  be  fabricated 
at  home  using  an  electric  drill.  In  multipair 
cable,  each  pair  should  be  used  as  a  single 
signal  path,  with  one  wire  grounded.  The  rise 
time  characteristics  of  the  pair  are  deter- 
mined by  the  conductor  size  and  tightness  of 
the  twist.  For  a  100  O  cable,  the  wire  should 
be  22  to  24  AWG  (stranded)  with  about 
three  turns  to  the  inch.  Multipair  wire  is 
available  at  many  surplus  houses,  and  is 
generally  a  bargain.  Photo  3  illustrates  a 
typical  home  made  twisted  pair. 

Good  old  hookup  wire  is  the  most  suscep- 
tible   to    noise    and    usually    has   a    highly 


36 


COMPUTER  EXPERIMENTER  SUPPLIES 

FACTORY  FRESH— PRIME  QUALITY 
PERFORMANCE  GUARANTEED 


MICROPROCESSORS  AND  MEMORY 

Commercial  Grade— up  to  35°C. 


8008  $  35.00 

8080  135.00 

2102   3.50 

2102-2   4.50 


These  units  are  factory 
fresh,  full  spec  devices. 


COMPUTER  GRADE  REGULATED  POWER  SUPPLIES 

All  units  are  short-circuit  proof,  fold  back  current  limited  and  with 
over-voltage  crowbar  protection. 


MD-15 

±15  Volt  at  200MA 
Dual  Tracking 
$30.00 


MD-5-1 

+5  Volt  at  1 
$24.50 


Amp 


MD-5-3 

+5  Volt  at  3  Amp 

$34.50 


MD-5-6 

+5  Volt  at  6  Amp 
$44.50 


MICRO  COMPUTER  SUPPLY 
COMBINATIONS 

For  the  8008 

MD-08— +5      volt   at   6   amp,    -12,    -9    at    200 

ma    $75.00 

For  the  8080 

MD-80— +5voltat6amp,±12vat200ma  . .  .$75.00 

FortheFairchild  F-8 

MD-8— +5voltat6amp,+12vat200ma    . .  .$65.00 

For  the  M6800 

MD-5— +5  voltat6amp $44.50 

All  units  are  short  circuit  proof,  fold-back  current 
limited  and  with  over  voltage  crowbar  protection. 


TTL  INTEGRATED  CIRCUITS 

All  devices  are  factory  fresh,  full  spec  uniis. 

7400 23 

7404 25 

7442 60 

7447 95 

7448 95 

7475 60 

7490 60 

7493 60 

74125 55 

74126 55 

74192 1.10 

74193 1.10 


All  Prices  Subject  to  Change  Without  Notice 

Minimum  Order  $10.00 

Add  $1.00  to  Cover  Postage  and  Handling 

Send  Check  or  Money  Order  (No  C.O.D.)  To: 

N.  J.  Residents  Add  5%  Sales  Tax 


MICRO  DIGITAL  CORP. 

BOX  413,  EDISON,  NJ     08817  •  (201)  549-2699 


37 


A  well  grounded  case  .  .  . 
will  help  shield  you  from 
your  neighbor's  com- 
plaints about  interference 
with  his  television 
reception. 


When  wires  get  long 
enough  to  look  like  trans- 
mission lines,  termination 
and  impedance  matching 
become  important. 


-i 1.852 

.652 

- .544 ► 

055DIA.  (25) 
\ 

—  435  — 
—.326-1 

r 

.274  r*-\                   —  .218  f— 

1    \      .'oH  H            ij 
^  ©©©©©©©©©©©©©*-y^ 

W    ©©©©©©©©@@©©-ttn 

I20DIA. 

(2) 

-J  .163 
.272 

-.055                 056J    | 
—                .                    .112 

—.381—- 

48S 

598 ► 

I      2    3    4    5    6     7    8    9    10  II    12   13 

rlUUUUUU 

VTTTTTTTTTTTT 

14  15   16    17  18    19  20  21  22  23  24  25 


RS-232  PIN  ASSIGNMENTS 


Pin 


Name 


Function 


1 

FG 

Frame  Ground  (not  switched) 

2 

TD 

Transmit  Data 

3 

RD 

Receive  Data 

4 

TRS 

Request  To  Send 

5 

CTS 

Clear  To  Send 

6 

DSR 

Data  Set  Ready 

7 

SG 

Signal  Ground 

8 

DCD 

Data  Carrier  Detect 

9 

Positive  DC  Test  Voltage 

10 

Negative  DC  Test  Voltage 

11 

Unassigned 

12 

(S)DCD 

Secondary  Data  Carrier  Detect 

13 

(S)CTS 

Secondary  Clear  To  Send 

14 

(S)TD 

Secondary  Transmit  Data 

15 

TC 

Transmit  Clock 

16 

(S)RD 

Secondary  Receive  Data 

17 

RC 

Receive  Clock 

18 

Receiver  Dibit  Clock 

19 

(S)RTS 

Secondary  Request  To  Send 

20 

DTR 

Data  Terminal  Ready 

21 

SQ 

Signal  Quality  Detect 

22 

Rl 

Ring  Indicator 

23 

Data  Rate  Select 

24 

ETC 

External  Transmit  Clock 

25 

Busy 

Figure  3:  The  commonly  used  RS-232  elec- 
trical interconnection  for  data  transmission 
is  shown  here  in  the  form  of  pin  assignments 
for  the  typical  D  connector.  A  typical  part 
number  for  the  connector  is  DB-25P  (plug) 
and  DB-25S  (socket)  made  by  Cinch. 


AMPLITUDE 
MODULATION 


FREQUENCY 
MODULATION 


PHASE 
MODULATION 


!    |    j    |    I    |    I    i    I 

rvL/^A/r\Jyviu/i/y^ 

I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I 


I       I 

SPACE       I  O 


I       I       I        I        I       I 

0  I  I  0  I       MARK   MARK 

3  4  5  6  7     STOP     STOP 


Figure  4:  Two  level  asynchronous  modulation,  shown  for  the  ASCII  character 
"5"  along  with  typical  modulated  waveforms  for  different  methods  of 
modulation. 


unpredictable  characteristic  impedance. 
Hookup  wire  should  be  used  only  for  short 
runs  between  boards  and  as  on  board 
jumpers. 

The  Long  Haul 

At  distances  greater  than  your  next  door 
neighbor's  house,  it  begins  to  become 
impractical  to  use  your  own  wire  between 
systems.  This  is  primarily  due  to  a  very 
important  conductor  property  —  cost.  Cop- 
per is  not  cheap,  and  stringing  wire  all  over 
the  place  will  give  hobbyists  a  bad  name. 
However,  the  phone  company  has  already 
done  this  and  will  provide  service  to  you  if 
you  pay  the  price. 

Another  alternative  is  using  a  different 
medium,  like  radio  waves.  It  will  be  inter- 
esting to  see  how  many  people  suddenly 
want  FCC  ham  licenses  in  order  to  play 
interactive  TV  games  and  exchange  software. 

Both  of  these  methods  have  a  major 
drawback;  they  will  not  directly  pass  a 
digital  signal.  The  telephone  system  was 
designed  to  carry  audio  frequencies.  Phones 
just  cannot  carry  DC  level  signals.  Radio 
frequencies  are  at  the  other  end  of  the 
spectrum  and  certainly  won't  support  a 
usable  DC  coupled  logic  signal. 

However,  the  pulses  of  digital  trans- 
mission can  be  superimposed  on  an  AC 
signal  that  is  within  the  bandwidth  of  the 
channel  being  used.  The  process  of  super- 
imposing one  signal  on  another  is  called 
modulation.  A  device  that  will  translate  the 
digital  bit  stream  to  an  encoded  analog  signal 
for  transmission  and  analog  to  digital  for 
reception  is  called  a  modulator-o'emodulator, 
or  modem . 

Since  it  is  impractical  to  have  eight 
telephone  lines  or  eight  radio  frequencies 
transmit  in  parallel,  a  conversion  to  serial 
must  be  done.  This  can  be  accomplished  by 
writing  the  conversion  in  software,  but  is 
more  cost  effective  by  using  an  integrated 
circuit  called  a  UART  (Universal  Asyn- 
chronous Receiver-Transmitter).  This  chip 
takes  the  data  in  parallel  form  and  converts 
it  to  serial  at  a  rate  specified  by  external 
components.  For  a  more  detailed  discussion 
of  the  serial  interface  and  UARTs,  see  "The 
Serial  Interface"  by  Don  Lancaster  in  the 
September  1 975  issue  of  BYTE. 

There  is  a  standard  for  interfacing  serial 
data  transmission  between  peripherals,  sys- 
tems, and  modems.  The  Electronic 
Industries  Association  (El A)  of  America  has, 
by  consent  of  various  manufacturers  and 
users,  standardized  a  25  pin  connection  with 
appropriate  signal  levels  called  the  RS-232 
interface.  There  is  also  a  new  EIA  standard 
that  has  been  introduced,  called  the  RS-422 
standard    that    is    more    suitable    to    TTL. 


38 


However,  since  almost  all  modems  and 
peripherals  now  available  and  all  surplus 
items  are  likely  to  use  the  RS-232  standard, 
it  will  remain  the  most  significant  to 
hobbyists  for  some  time. 

A  commonly  used  RS-232  connector 
along  with  pin  assignments  is  shown  in  figure 
3.  The  signals  that  appear  on  the  signal  pins 
must  be  bipolar  with  3  V  to  25  V  represent- 
ing a  logical  one  and  —3  V  to  —25  V  being  a 
logical  zero.  There  are  chips  available  to  do 
this  conversion  from  TTL,  the  1488  and 
1489.  If  you  are  going  to  use  commercial 
RS-232  equipment,  you  should  expect  to 
provide  this  interface;  and  you'll  also  need 
the  positive  and  negative  supply  voltages. 
Keep  in  mind  that  in  common  practice  many 
of  the  pins  in  figure  3  are  not  used.  The 
most  important  lines  on  the  RS-232  inter- 
face plug  are  the  grounds,  the  transmit  data 
(TD)  and  receive  data  (RD).  In  many 
instances  it  is  sufficient  to  use  only  these 
lines,  especially  if  you  are  just  experimenting 
with  an  RS-232  peripheral.  Note,  however, 
that  some  terminals  require  inputs  for  one  or 
more  additional  pins,  many  of  which  can 
simply  be  wired  to  the  RS-232  logic  zero  or 
logic  one  lines  (—12  V  or  +12  V,  for 
example). 

Data  Modulation 

There  are  three  basic  techniques  for 
modulating  an  analog  signal  and  many  dif- 
ferent variations  of  these.  An  analog  signal 
that  is  to  be  modulated  by  the  data  is  called 
a  carrier,  and  the  carrier  has  three  basic 
characteristics  that  can  be  varied.  If  the 
amplitude,  frequency,  or  phase  is  varied  in 
step  with  the  bit  stream,  modulation  occurs. 
An  example  of  each  technique  is  shown  in 
figure  4. 

Amplitude  modulation  is  seldom  used  in 
modems  because  of  its  high  susceptibility  to 
noise  and  attenuation,  but  the  technique  is 
used  in  some  magnetic  tape  encoding 
schemes.  Frequency  modulation  is  a  more 
common  technique.  The  example  shown  in 
figure  4  uses  one  frequency  to  represent  a  0 
bit  and  a  higher  frequency  to  represent  a  1 
bit.  This  particular  method  is  called  fre- 
quency shift  keying  (FSK). 

The  phase  modulation  example  in  figure 
4  shows  a  two  level  coding  scheme  with  each 
180°  phase  shift  triggering  a  logical  state 
change. 

The  number  of  times  the  signal  is  varied 
each  second  is  called  Baud  or  Baud  rate. 
Suppose  you  were  designing  a  modem  using 
phase  modulation.  You  could,  for  example, 
divide  the  possible  phase  shifts  into  45° 
each,  having  eight  possible  phase  shifts  for 
each  signal  change.  A  45°  shift  would 
represent    a    group    of    three    bits,    namely 


'000'.  90°  would  represent  '001',  135°  = 
'010',  180°  =  '011',  etc.,  up  to  360°  for 
'111'.  In  this  case  a  signal  changing  100 
times  a  second,  or  at  100  Baud,  would 
actually  transfer  data  at  300  b/s.  This 
method  of  one  signal  change  representing 
more  than  one  bit  is  called  multilevel 
encoding.  It  is  in  principle  the  way  some 
commercial  high  speed  modems  function. 

In  order  to  obtain  a  fair  amount  of 
accuracy  in  transmitting  data  from  a  trans- 
mitter to  a  receiver,  it  is  necessary  to  keep 
the  two  systems  in  step  with  each  other. 
There  are  two  common  methods  to  do  this, 
called  synchronous  and  asynchronous  trans- 
mission. 

Asynchronous  transmission  is  also  called 
start-stop  transmission  because  each  charac- 
ter is  sent  as  it  is  created  at  the  transmission 
interface.  To  synchronize  the  receiver,  each 
character  carries  its  own  timing  in  the  form 
of  additional  bits  called  start  and  stop  bits. 
These  give  the  receiver  the  ability  to  decode 
each  bit  reliably.  The  format  of  a  single 
character  is  shown  in  figure  4  along  with 
data  for  the  digit  5  encoded  in  ASCII. 

Synchronous  transmission  is  usually 
associated  with  blocks  of  data,  where  groups 
of  characters  are  sent  together.  A  fixed 
speed  of  transmission  is  set  by  clocks  or 
oscillators,  and  data  bits  are  transferred  at 
this  rate.  To  provide  character  synchroniza- 
tion, usually  two  special  synchronization 
characters  precede  the  actual  block  of  data. 
An  end  of  block  character  follows  the  data 
to  signal  the  receiver  that  all  of  the  data  in 
that  block  has  been  sent.  An  additional  error 
detecting  character  may  also  be  sent  as 
shown  in  figure  5. 


ERROR  DETECTION  CHARACTER- 


Figure  5:  Synchronous  transmission  is  block 
oriented  and  assumes  highly  accurate  com- 
mon clocking  of  both  the  sender  and  the 
receiver. 


Finally,  there  is  one  other  complication 
in  using  radio  or  telephones  for  your  com- 
munication channel  —  the  FCC.  The  FCC 
regulates  the  telephone  industry  by  tariffs 
that  specify  the  costs  and  types  of  devices 
that  can  be  used  with  Ma  Bell.  They  also 
regulate  radio  frequency  allocation  and 
power  output  and  information  codes  that 
can  be  transmitted  by  radio. 

There  are  good  reasons  for  having  these 
regulations  followed,  but  they  do  tend  to 
make  life  difficult  for  the  hobbyist.  A 
dedicated  100  mile  phone  line  with  a  Bell 
modem  will  exceed  most  other  system  costs 


A  baud  is  not  necessarily  a 
bit  per  second  —  although 
it  might  be  in  special  cases. 
A  baud  is  a  signal  change 
per  second. 


39 


available  now 

A  microprocessor  based  computer  system 
as  a  replacement  for  the  PDP-8. 

Check  these  features  of 
TECHTRA  DATA  SYSTEMS  new  TMC  1 12: 


******** 


A  complete  system  with 

operator's  control  panel,  up  to  32K  of 

core  or  semi-conductor  memory, 

user  custom  programs  in  R01V1  as 

required,  and  lots  more. 


******** 


A  complete  range  of  peripherals 

tailored  to  fit  the  micro-processor 

systems  world  both  in  price  and 

performance.   Printers,  video 

displays,  floppy  disk  systems, 

cassette  and  reel  to  reel  magnetic 

tape  drive,  and  paper  tape 

punches  and  readers. 


******** 


A  complete  operating  systems  software 

package,  from  TECHTRA. 

Proprietary  systems  programs  to  help 

a  user  get  his  system  up 

quickly  along  with  TECHTRA'S 

custom  software  for  a  variety 

of  intriguing  applications. 

Compatibility  with  the  PDP-8  opens 

up  the  world's  largest 

software  library. 


******** 


All  hardware  is  available  in  kit 

form  or  fully  assembled.   Programs 

as  you  need  them  on  floppy, 

mag-cassette  or  paper  tape. 


******** 


TECHTRA  DATA  SYSTEMS  offers  complete, 

turnkey  systems,  components, 

or  software  to  users  or  OEM 's. 

Special  discount  prices  for  students, 

computer  clubs,  universities, 

or  quantity  buyers. 


NOTICE 

TECHTRA  is  now  seeking  a 

limited  number  of  agents  and  sales 

representatives.    Engineering  or 

computer  science  students  to 

cover  the  educational  market. 

Also  for  part  time  sales. 


For  product  prices 

and  delivery  information 

contact 

TECHTRA  CORPORATION 

130  WEBSTER  STREET 

OAKLAND,  CALIFORNIA  94607 

(415)763-5717 


for  a  home  computer  in  a  very  short  time.  A 
ham  license  and  suitable  radio  equipment  are 
not  cheap,  either.  Long  distance  real  time 
data  transmission  is  presently  out  of  reach  to 
many  hobbyists." 


GLOSSARY 

Asynchronous  transmission:  Transmission  where 
data  is  sent  a  character  at  a  time  with  syn- 
chronizing bits  added.  See  Synchronous 
Transmission. 

b/s:  Bits  per  second. 

Bandwidth:  The  width  of  the  frequency  spectrum 
that  a  channel  can  pass,  measured  in  Hz. 

Baud:  The  number  of  signal  changes  per  second. 

Carrier:  The  analog  signal  that  is  modulated  by  the 
information  that  it  is  to  carry.  Also,  the  provider 
of  a  communications  channel,  i.e.,  Wla  Bell. 

Duplex:  Communication  system  that  allows 
information  to  be  exchanged.  See  simplex. 

FSK:  Frequency  shift  keying,  a  type  of  frequency 
modulation  for  digital  data. 

Full  duplex:  Communication  system  that  allows 
simultaneous  information  exchange.  See  half 
duplex. 

Half  duplex:  Communication  system  that  allows 
information  to  be  exchanged,  but  not  simultane- 
ously. See  full  duplex. 

Modem:  Modulator-demodulator.  A  device  used  to 
convert  digital  to  analog  signals  and  vice  versa. 

Modulation:  The  process  of  superimposing 
information  on  a  carrier.  See  carrier. 

Multilevel  Encoding:  The  process  of  using  a  signal 
change  to  represent  more  than  one  bit  of 
information. 

Noise:  Unwanted  signals  that  interfere  with  the 
message. 

Ringing:  A  condition  in  transmission  lines  where 
"reflections"  of  pulses  oscillate  due  to  an 
impedance  mismatch. 

Simplex:  Communication  system  that  does  not 
allow  information  to  be  exchanged.  See  duplex. 

Synchronous  Transmission:  Transmission  where 
the  bit  rate  is  clocked.  Usually  associated  with 
block  transmission.  See  asynchronous  transmission. 


40 


Chips  Found  Floating  Down  Silicon  Slough 


Roy  H  Trumbull 

833  Balra  Dr 

El  Cerrito  CA  94530 


The  state  of  the  Art  is  changing  rapidly. 
In  fact  I  ran  into  him  in  New  Mexico  last 
month.  Seems  he  had  just  gotten  back  from 
China  where  he  had  seen  their  latest 
computer.  It  was  really  fantastic,  but  they 
still  have  a  problem  with  noise  from  the 
beads.  I  asked  Art  to  clue  me  in  on  the  latest 
devices  coming  out  of  research  and  these  are 
the  ones  he  told  me  about: 


3D 


r 


DON'T    GATE 


NOISE   EMITTING  DfODE 


&> 


The  Don't  Gate 

You  don't  get  no  output  no  matter 
what's  at  the  inputs.  It  is  believed  that  the 
don't  gate  was  the  breakthrough  that  made 
the  LSI  write  only  memory  possible. 

Noise  Emitting  Diode  (NED) 

When  connected  across  a  1000  volt 
supply  it  makes  a  loud  noise  (once).  The 
NED  was  discovered  by  Igor  Pravaganda 
whom  you'll  recall  worked  many  years 
trying  to  filter  AC  with  electrolytics.  He'll 
always  be  remembered  as  the  father  of  the 
confetti  generator. 


SHIFTLESS  REGISTER 


TICK  TOCK ►- 


I      -"—NUMBERS  FALLING 
I  OUT 


GRANOLA  OUT 
MAYOE 


IN-OP  AMP 


J (UN)K    FLIPFLOP 


Shiftless  Register 

Must  be  used  with  3  speed  forward  clutch 
gate.  Shifts  at  1 5,  25,  and  35  bits  per 
second.  Double  clutching  with  logic  2s  is  not 
suggested. 

Inoperational  Amplifier  (IN-OP  AMP) 

Linear  cousin  of  the  DON'T  gate. 
Provides  no  output  for  any  input  at  a  slew 
rate  of  0  volts  per  microsecond.  Mil  Spec, 
version  available  at  100  times  the  cost  of 
OEM  version. 

J(UN)K  Flip  Flop 

Doesn't  change  state  when  clocked 
regardless  of  input  states.  Changes  state  only 
when  cola  machine  down  the  hall  makes 
change. 

Excess  3  To  Insufficient  4  Carry  Forward 
Fudger 

Used  to  enter  Murphy  factor  and  get  the 
programmer  off  the  hook. 

Moss 

Highly  experimental  material.  Very  rare 
at  present  since  only  source  is  from  under 
grizzly  bear  toenails.  Turns  green  when 
facing  north  while  on  wood  substrate. 

Fuzz  Locked  Loop 

Great  if  you  want  to  avoid  radar  speed 
traps.  ■ 


H 


CLUTCH   GATE 


EXCESS    3   TO   INSUFFICIENT  4 
CARRY   FORWARD   FUDGER 


41 


The  New  ALTAIR  680 


James  B  Vice 
MITS  Inc 


The  new  ALTAIR  680  designed  by  MITS 
is  a  system  based  on  the  6800  microproc- 
essing unit  (MPU).  The  MPU  is  available 
from  Motorola  or  American  Micro-Systems 
and  adapts  nicely  to  a  minimum  design 
configuration. 

The  ALTAIR  680  case  measures  about 
11"  by  11"  by  4-3/4"  (28  cm  by  28  cm  by 
12  cm)  making  it  less  than  one  third  the  size 
of  the  ALTAIR  8800.  The  basic  system  is 
available  in  three  configurations,  depending 
on  the  intended  application.  These  include  a 
user  programmable  processor  with  complete 
front  panel  controls,  and  two  smaller  ver- 
sions oriented  towards  dedicated  ROM  pro- 
grammed applications. 

The  compact  size  of  the  680  obviously 
precludes  any  significant  amount  of  internal 
expansion,  although  additional  memory  and 
IO  control  are  already  on  the  drawing  board. 
Its  small  physical  size  can  be  deceiving.  The 
overall  concept  was  to  keep  the  machine  as 
simple,  small  and  inexpensive  as  possible; 
but  it  forms  the  complete  central  processor 
of  a  system  in  itself.  All  that  is  needed  to 
make  a  MITS  680  system  is  the  addition  of 
some  IO  devices  and  software.  , 

The  Three  Models 

The  construction  of  this  machine  is  a 
relatively  easy  matter  for  even  the  most 
inexperienced  kit  builder.  Almost  all  of  the 


circuitry  is  contained  on  a  single  large 
printed  circuit  board,  including  memory  and 
a  built-in  IO  port.  This  single  board  is  a  full 
central  processor  with  the  exception  of  a 
power  transformer  and  some  control 
switches.  This  is  where  the  main  distinction 
between  the  three  configurations  is 
encountered: 

•  Most  hobbyists  will  be  concerned  with 
the  full  front  panel  model.  This  con- 
tains all  of  the  necessary  controls  for 
addressing  and  entering  data  besides 
those  for  controlling  the  processor 
itself. 

•  A  turn  key  front  panel  model  is  also 
available  which  eliminates  all  controls 
except  restarting  the  processor's  ROM 
software.  This  could  be  used  in  appli- 
cations where  it  is  desirable  to  elimi- 
nate the  possibility  of  the  operator  or 
any  other  person  affecting  the 
machine's  memory  or  computing 
cycle.  An  example  for  such  an  applica- 
tion might  be  its  use  in  controlling  an 
intrusion  detection  system,  or  for 
a  manufacturing  machine  control 
system. 

•  The  third  configuration  is  similar  to 
the  turn  key  version.  The  680  will  also 
be  available  as  just  the  large  PC  board 
mentioned  above.  This  board  contains 


42 


everything   but  a   power  supply   and 
controls.   Its  application  is  similar  to 
the  turn  key  model,  except  that  the 
computer   would   be   "buried"   inside 
another  machine. 
The   board   only    model    is  an  excellent 
starter  for  the  experimenter  who  wishes  to 
purchase  an  absolute  minimum  and  do  a  bit 
of  his  own  designing.  Such  experimental  use 
is   aided    by    the    considerable   amount  of 
information   available   on   the  6800  micro- 
processing    unit     from     Motorola     Semi- 
conductor Products,  Inc.  The  6800  MPU  is 
also  TTL  compatible  and  requires  only  one  5 
volt  power  supply. 

Front  Panel 

In  the  front  panel  model  of  the  680  there 
is  an  additional  printed  circuit  board.  This 
board  contains  all  of  the  logic  circuitry 
necessary  to  reset,  halt  or  start  the  proces- 
sor. Also  located  on  this  board  are  switches 
and  associated  LED  indicator  lights  for  each 
of  the  sixteen  address  lines  and  eight  data 
lines.  The  front  panel  printed  circuit  board 
mounts  directly  to  the  main  printed  circuit 
board  via  a  1  00  contact  edge  connector.  This 
eliminates  the  need  for  a  cumbersome  wiring 
harness.  The  only  other  control  is  the  power 
switch,  located  on  the  back  panel  of  the  unit 
for  safety  purposes. 

On  the  dedicated  program  models,  no 
front  panel  is  needed  because  PROM  or 
ROM  software  is  used  to  store  the  starting 
address;  a  minimum  fixed  set  of  programs 
must  be  supplied  by  the  user  or  manufac- 
turer in  this  form  of  the  system. 

Functional  Description 

The  basic  ALTAI  R  680  computer  can  be 
subdivided  into  five  functional  sections. 
These  are  the  MPU  and  clock,  the  memory, 
an  IO  port,  control  and  indication,  and-  the 
power  supply. 

The  first  three  of  these  sections,  along 
with  the  power  supply  regulation  compo- 
nents, are  located  on  the  main  printed 
circuit  board. 

MPU  and  Clock 

At  the  heart  of  the  680  system  is  the 
6800  microprocessing  integrated  circuit. 
This  is  a  versatile  and  very  powerful  little 
processor,  yet  it  is  directly  responsible  for 
the  overall  simplicity  of  the  680  design. 

The  6800  is  an  8  bit  parallel  processor 
using  a  bi-directional  data  bus  and  a  16  bit 
address  bus.  The  address  bus  gives  it  the 
ability  to  directly  address  65,536  bytes  of 
memory.  (Of  course  most  configurations  will 
have  fewer  than  65,536  bytes.)  The  instruc- 
tion set  consists  of  72  basic  instructions  with 


various  addressing  modes  giving  a  total  of 
1 97  different  operation  codes. 

The  6800  has  seven  different  addressing 
modes,  with  the  available  modes  being  a 
function  of  the  type  of  instruction  selected. 
The  seven  modes  include  the  following: 

•  Accumulator  Addressing  —  one  byte 
instructions  which  specify  either  of 
the  two  accumulators  use  this  mode. 

•  Immediate  Addressing  —  two  or  three 
byte  instructions  with  data  specified  in 
the  instruction  use  this  mode.  In 
immediate  mode  instructions,  one  or 
two  bytes  of  data  follow  the  op  code, 
depending  upon  the  instruction 
involved. 

•  Direct  Addressing  —  two  byte  instruc- 
tions which  allow  the  user  to  directly 
address  the  first  256  bytes  of  memory 
address  space  in  the  machine  employ 
this  mode. 

•  Extended  Addressing  —  three  byte 
instructions  with  a  full  16  bit  address 
in  the  second  two  bytes  use  this  mode. 
There  is  no  need  to  set  up  an  on-chip 
register  to  access  all  of  memory  with 
the  6800.  This  mode  is  available  for 
most  data  manipulation  operations. 

•  Indexed  Addressing  —  two  byte  in- 
structions with  this  mode  add  the 
second  byte  of  the  instruction  to  the 
16  bit  index  register  to  give  the 
address  of  the  operand. 

•  Inherent  Addressing  —  certain  one 
byte  instructions  imply  the  operands 
directly  and  thus  do  not  need  a 
separate  address. 

•  Relative  Addressing  —  all  the  branch 
instructions  calculate  the  branch 
address  by  adding  the  second  instruc- 
tion byte  to  the  current  program 
counter  plus  two.  The  relative  offset  is 
treated  as  a  signed  two's  complement 
number  (8  bits)  being  added  to  the 
address  in  the  program  counter.  This 
allows  the  user  to  branch  to  memory 
location  +129  to  -125  bytes  from  the 
location  of  the  present  instruction. 

These  various  addressing  modes  may  take 
a  bit  of  getting  used  to,  but  once  understood 
they  allow  for  some  very  fast  programs  to  be 
written. 

The  6800  MPU  contains  three  16  bit 
registers  and  three  8  bit  registers.  The 
program  counter  is  a  two  byte  register  which 
keeps  track  of  the  current  address  of  the 
program.  The  stack  pointer  is  also  a  two 
byte  register  which  contains  the  next  address 
in  a  variable  length  stack  found  in  main 
memory.  The  index  register  is  a  two  byte 
register  used  to  store  data  or  a  memory 
address  for  indexed  addressing  operations. 
There  are  two  single  byte  accumulators  used 


43 


for  holding  operands  and  results  from  the 
arithmetic  logic  unit  (ALU).  The  8  bit 
condition  code  register  indicates  the  results 
of  an  ALU  operation.  In  this  register  there 
are  two  unused  bits,  kept  at  a  logic  one.  The 
remaining  six  bits  are  used  as  the  status  flags 
for  carry,  overflow,  zero,  negative,  interrupt 
and  half  carry. 

There  are  several  timing  and  control 
signals  required  to  operate  the  MPU.  Two 
clock  inputs  are  required,  phase  1  and  phase 
2.  These  must  be  nonoverlapping  and  run  at 
the  Vcc  voltage  level.  Ordinary  TTL  will  not 
drive  these  clocks  properly.  In  the  680  the 
clock  is  a  2  MHz  crystal  controlled  oscillator 
with  logic  to  provide  a  500  kHz  two  phase 
clock.  (Although  the  6800  is  capable  of 
running  with  a  clock  of  up  to  a  1.0  MHz, 
MITS  has  set  the  speed  of  the  680  to  500 
kHz    in    order   to   greatly    reduce   the   cost 


through  use  of  slower  and  less  expensive 
system  components.)  Sixteen  active  high 
address  outputs  are  used  to  specify  the 
sections  of  memory  or  10  to  be  used.  These 
can  drive  up  to  one  standard  TTL  load  and 
130  pF.  There  are  also  eight  bi-directional 
data  lines  with  the  same  drive  capability  as 
the  address  lines.  The  HALT  signal  is  an 
active  low  input  which  ceases  activity  in  the 
computer.  The  RW  (read  or  write)  signal  in 
the  high  state  indicates  that  the  processor  is 
in  a  read  condition;  in  the  low  state  it 
indicates  that  the  processor  is  in  a  write 
condition.  The  VMA  (valid  memory  address) 
signal  tells  external  devices  that  the  proc- 
essor has  a  valid  address  on  the  memory  bus. 
The  DBE  (data  bus  enable)  signal  is  the 
input  which  enables  the  bus  drivers.  The  BA 
(bus  available)  signal  indicates  that  the 
machine  has  stopped  and  that  the  address 
bus  is  available.  RESET  is  used  to  reset  and 
start  the  MPU  from  a  power  off  condition. 
The  IRQ  (interrupt  request)  signal,  when 
low,  tells  the  processor  to  start  an  interrupt 
sequence.  This  can  occur  only  if  the  inter- 
rupt mask  bit  in  the  condition  code  register 
is   low.   The    NMI    (nonmaskable  interrupt) 


44 


signal  is  essentially  the  same  as  the  IRQ 
signal  except  that  it  is  not  dependent  on  the 
condition  code  register. 

Memory 

The  main  printed  circuit  board  on  the 
680  contains  the  basic  memory  for  the  unit 
also.  This  includes  1024  bytes  of  random 
access  memory  and  provisions  for  another 
1024  bytes  of  read  only  memory.  The 
random  access  memory  circuits  being  used 
are  the  2102  static  1024  X  1  bit  parts.  Read 
only  memories  of  the  mask  programmed 
type  can  be  custom  ordered,  and  are  very 
expensive  in  small  quantities.  The  1702 
type,  ultra-violet  erasable  programmable 
read  only  memories  are  typically  used  in  this 
system.  These  are  256  X  8  bit  units,  so  four 
1702As  would  be  required  to  fill  up  the 
available  space  in  the  680. 

There  is  additional  memory  for  the  680 
on  the  drawing  board  at  this  time  which  may 
add  up  to  12  K  bytes  more  storage  to  the 
unit. 

IO  Port 

Also  on  the  main  printed  circuit  board  is 
a  built  in  IO  port  and  the  appropriate 
interface  circuitry.  This  port  may  be  con- 
figured as  either  an  RS232  level  port  or 
either  a  20  mA  or  60  mA  current  loop  TTY 
level  port.  This  means  it  can  be  interfaced 
with  proper  software  to  the  old  Baudot  type 
Teletypes,  such  as  the  Model  19  and  Model 
28  machines. 

The  entire  design  of  the  680  is  greatly 
simplified  due  to  the  6800's  use  of  memory 
address  space  for  IO  addressing.  The  proces- 
sor uses  addresses  to  refer  to  IO  devices  as 
well  as  memory,  rather  than  have  special  IO 
instructions  and  a  separate  IO  bus.  Within 
the  limits  of  practical  engineering,  pro- 
gramming and  memory  requirements,  as 
many  IO  devices  as  desired  can  be  added  to  a 
6800  microprocessor  system.  No  logical 
limitation  is  built  into  the  instruction  set. 
MITS  also  has  additional  IO  interfaces  on 
the  drawing  board  at  this  time;  although 
availability  of  this  and  the  additional 
memory  boards  will  be  greatly  influenced 
in  their  development  by  customer  response. 

Control  and  Indication 

On  the  fully  user-programmable  version 
of  the  680,  the  front  panel  assembly  con- 
tains a  RUN/HALT  switch  with  an  LED 
indicator  for  each  switch  position.  There  is  a 
RESET  switch  with  no  indicator,  and 
another  indicator  for  the  AC  power  switch 
which  is  located  on  the  back  panel  of  the 
unit.  The  switches  for  the  16  address  lines 
and  8  data  lines,  and  their  associated  indica- 


tor lights,  are  also  located  on  the  front  panel 
assembly  of  the  fully  programmable  model. 
There  is  also  a  DEPOSIT  switch. 

The  DEPOSIT,  RESET,  DATA  and 
ADDRESS  switches  are  enabled  only  when 
the  RUN/HALT  switch  is  in  the  HALT 
position.  To  view  the  data  in  a  particular 
memory  address,  the  RUN/HALT  switch 
must  first  be  in  the  HALT  position  and  then 
the  ADDRESS  switches  may  be  set  to  the 
required  address.  The  data  located  at  that 
particular  address  will  then  appear  on  the 
DATA  LED  indicators  above  the  DATA 
switches. 

To  write  data  in  a  desired  location,  once 
the  correct  address  has  been  set  on  the 
address  switches,  the  appropriate  data 
should  be  entered  on  the  DATA  switches 
and  then  the  DEPOSIT  switch  activated. 
Since  the  address  bus  is  already  connected  to 
the  switches  by  being  in  the  HALT  state,  a 
write  pulse  causes  the  data  to  be  written  into 
the  selected  RAM  address. 

When  the  RESET  switch  is  activated,  the 
processor  itself  resets.  This  initiates  a  restart 
sequence,  pulling  the  address  bus  to  its  high 
state  and  causing  hard-wired  data  on  the 
board  to  be  used  as  the  restart  address. 

On  the  dedicated  program  versions  of  the 
680,  most  of  these  functions  are  taken  care 
of  by  ROM  or  PROM.  The  only  controls 
available  to  the  user  are  the  AC  power  and 
RESET  switches. 

Power  Supply 

The  5  volt  supply  to  the  computer  is 
supplied  from  the  power  transformer 
through  a  conventional  bridge  rectifier  and 
filter  capacitors  and  voltage  regulator  IC.  A 
32  volt  winding  on  the  transformer  is  used 
to  generate  the  unregulated  ±16  volts  re- 
quired for  a  TTY  interface,  and  a  —16  volt 
line  is  fed  to  four  zener  diode  regulated 
outputs  to  provide  four  —9  volt  lines  for  the 
PROMs. 

The  transformer  itself,  along  with  the 
power  switch,  is  located  on  the  computer's 
back  panel.  There  are  also  provisions  for 
installing  a  cooling  fan  when  necessary. 

As  far  as  software  goes,  MITS  has  a 
package  available  similar  to  the  8800's 
Package  One.  This  includes  an  editor,  PROM 
monitor  and  assembler.  This  all  goes  to  make 
the  ALTAI R  680  a  rather  powerful  little 
machine.  There  is  also  the  possibility  for 
further  software  development. 

MITS  has  decided  to  await  customer 
response  to  determine  the  course  of  further 
680  development  in  both  the  areas  of 
software  and  hardware. 

Although  it's  not  quite  as  powerful  as  the 
ALTAI R  8800,  the  ALTAI R  680  is  mighty 
close  and  costs  less." 


45 


How  to  Save  the  BYTEs 


Thomas  C  Mclntire 
310  Village  Dr 
Centerville  OH    45459 


The  personal  computer  is  today,  a  real, 
affordable  entity.  A  paradox  is  appreciated, 
however,  when  configuring  a  system.  You 
can  order  a  computer  for  less  than  a  good 
color  television.  But  talking  to  it  costs  much 
more.  Computer  communications,  meaning 
the  traditional  twins  of  input  and  output, 
are  commonly  referred  to  as  IO.  The  para- 
dox is  that  it  costs  more  to  save  the  bytes 
than  to  process  them. 

A  friend  has  recently  completed  assembly 
of  an  ALTAI  R  8800  and  is  interfacing  a  TV 
typewriter  and  an  audio  cassette  recorder  for 
bulk  storage.  The  keyboard,  TV,  cassette 
recorder  and  electronics  cost  more  than  the 
computer! 

Another  popular  approach  is  to  use  a 
tele-typewriter.  Combining  the  keyboard, 
serial  printer  and  punched  paper  tape  IO 
into  one  machine,  you  might  get  by  with  as 
little(?)  as  one  K  dollars. 

A  traditionalist,  looking  back  a  couple  of 
generations,  might  opt  for  a  key  punch  of 
maybe  026  vintage.  Assuming  this  is 
affordable,  a  card  reader  must  also  be  had. 
Still,  no  back  talk.  You  have  input,  but  no 
output.  Even  the  veteran  of  the  tab  card 
shop  doesn't  enjoy  reading  the  Hollerith 
coded  holes. 

Magnetic  recording  media  is  the  present 
vogue  of  the  big  boys.  Random  access 
storage  on  disk  has  many  virtues.  Unfor- 
tunately, disk  drives  and  Cadillacs  have  a 
common  trait  .  .  .  price.  The  Pinto-like 
affordability  of  the  cassette  devices  is  a 
partial  solution,  but  printed  output  is  still 
desired.  Punched  paper  tape  could  be  dual 
purpose,  but  you  might  end  up  as  cross-eyed 
as  the  tab  card  interpreter. 

Looking  at  the  ads,  I  find  a  Centronics 
printer  might  cost  about  the  same  as  a  three 
year  old  Ford  . .  .  but,  my  wife  says  I  can't 
sell  her  car. 

Since  the  ENIAC,  man  has  been  busy 
devising  various  ways  to  convert  the  printed 


word  to  a  form  recognizable  by  a  machine. 
And,  with  the  number  crunching  completed, 
the  machine  has  to  output  the  results  in  a 
form  that  is  readable  by  man.  Some 
specialized  attempts  to  make  character 
representations  dual  purpose  have  been  very 
successful.  Notice  the  MICR  encoding  near 
the  bottom  of  your  personal  checks.  Notice 
also,  the  precision  printing  and  magnetic 
recognition  units  involved  are  usually  owned 
by  those  who  can  afford  it .  .  .  the  banks. 

Because  I  don't  own  a  bank  (the  converse 
is  more  nearly  correct),  and  a  Cadillac  isn't 
in  my  home-owned  computer  budget,  a 
cheaper  method  is  sought  for  hauling  and 
storing  my  labors-of-love  bit  strings.  Building 
my  own  printer  might  have  some  merit. 
There  are  many  proven  architectures  from 
which  to  choose.  Ball,  basket  type,  drum, 
belt,  moving  head,  move  the  paper,  move 
both,  are  some  of  the  many  possible.  All 
commercial  printers  have  one  thing  in  com- 
mon ...  a  proliferation  of  moving  mechani- 
cal parts.  The  major  reason  is  our  alphabet. 
If  we  changed  the  character  set,  printing 
would  be  simpler.  If  a  semblance  of  logic 
prevailed,  optical  recognition  might  be 
easier. 

The  puritanical  school  of  thought  is  to 
require  as  little  change  in  man's  ways  as 
possible  when  dictating  computerizing  con- 
ventions. The  backyard  bit  fiddler  is  usually 
more  condescending,  and  I  for  one  wouldn't 
mind  bending  the  rules  a  little. 

Applying  a  true  structured  programming 
approach:  first,  the  character  set;  we'll  get 
on  to  the  printing  and  reading  later.  The 
ASCII  code  representations  are  both  logical 
and  suit  computer  oriented,  binary  storage 
nicely.  This  fact  may  well  have  occurred  to 
the  originators:  In  hexadecimal  notation  the 
letter  A  is  41 ;  the  letter  B  is  42;  and  the 
letter  C  is  43,  etc.  What  is  needed  is  a  way  to 
encode  in  a  given  printed  character  the 
entire  byte  range  of  00  to  FF.  If  we  use  a 


46 


single,  vertical  line  as  the  root  of  a  character, 
visual  focusing  (and  machine  registration) 
can  be  achieved.  The  left  and  right  side  of 
the  line,  respectively,  can  denote  the  HIGH 
and  LOW  significance.  Top  to  bottom  we 
assign  positional  values  of  1,  2,  4,  and  8. 
Where  1  is  the  top  and  8  is  the  bottom, 
2  and  4  are  equidistant  between.  Using  the 
text  book  descriptions  of  ON  and  OFF,  we 
can  draw  connecting,  horizontal  lines  to 
code  the  bits. 

The  coded  print  value  of  hexadecimal  FF 
is  thus: 


The  results:  After  one  week  of  elapsed 
time  (and  curtailed  allowances)  all  four 
subjects  successfully  memorized  the  coded 
character  set.  Testing  was  conducted  by 
myself  and  critiqued  by  my  wife.  In  turn, 
for  each  examinee,  I  flashed  the  cards  in 
random  order  for  their  response.  Individual 
results  were  as  follows.  Eight  year  old,  three 
mistakes,  corrected  with  prompting.  Our 
number  two  son  had  only  two  mistakes, 
self-recognized  and  corrected  without 
prompting.  The  oldest  boy  needed  the  dollar 
...  no  mistakes.  Not  too  impressed  with  the 


. 

VERTICAL  LINE 

HIGH  SIDE 

2   



2 

LOW   SIDE 

4 

4 
p 

BIT  POSITIONS^ 

D 

°=\ 

A-r 

K-E 

U=F 

1  T 

B-h 

L-t 

v=h 

2=h 

C-F 

m  __p 

w  ZE 

3=F 

D  + 

n4e 

X=L 

<=r- 

E-P 

°-F£ 

y=l: 

5=F 

F4= 

p^ 

z=b 

6^ 

G-E 

QT 

*^ 

7=P 

H-L 

R=h 

*=r- 

8=L 

l-L 

s3= 

+  -E 

9T 

J-t 

T=r- 

85  =E 

Such  symmetry!  Hercule  Poirot,  the  Belgian 
detective  in  Agatha  Christie's  novels,  would 
surely  applaud.  Using  this  scheme,  we  can 
encode  the  entire  range  of  bits  possible 
within  a  byte.  The  chart  that  follows  is  a 
partially  encoded  ASCII  code  set. 

As  an  experiment  to  test  the  "human" 
readability  of  such  graphics,  I  selected  an 
unbiased  sampling  group  ...  my  kids.  The 
subjects:  Sons,  ages  8,  10  and  11.  Our  17 
year  old  daughter  also  participated  to 
appease  women's  lib.  Motivation  was  to 
learn  the  alphabet  and  I  would  pay  one 
dollar.  Total  research  and  development 
costs:  $4. 

The  method:  I  used  blank  96  column 
cards  and  drew  one  character  per  card, 
encoded  as  above,  with  the  conventional 
letters  printed  on  the  backs.  Each  partici- 
pant studied  the  flash  cards  at  their  own 
leisure.  Intensity  and  frequency  of  study  was 
dictated  by  individual  need  and  greed. 
NOTE:  A  dollar  seems  like  more  to  an  eight 
year  old  than  to  a  teenager.  Group  study  was 
suggested,  but  resulted  in  some  disharmony 
at  times. 


funding,  our  teenager  didn't  make  any  mis- 
takes, but  considerable  prompting  was  neces- 
sary. 

Conclusions:  A  dollar  doesn't  buy  much. 
Kids  have  good  memories.  This  scheme 
should  work  well  in  junior  high  schools. 
Critic's  comment:  "Try  a  re-test,  but  with 
the  cards  turned  around."  The  test  group 
also  unanimously  suggested  that  I  attempt 
the  test  myself  . .  .  overruled  . .  .  rank  has  its 
privileges. 

The  problem  of  printing  and  reading  such 
a  character  set  was  broached  next.  To  keep 
mechanical  movements  to  the  minimum,  the 
plan  is  for  using  friction-fed,  rolled  paper 
tape  imprinted  by  a  matrix  type  electro- 
mechanical assembly.  Reading  is  by  detec- 
tion of  intensity  of  reflected  light  from  a 
common  source,  carried  from  the  read  head 
by  optical  fibres.  My  current  efforts  are 
aimed  at  scrounging  and  evaluating  surplus 
and  junk  parts  for  fabrication. 

It  is  highly  doubtful  that  this  scheme  will 
revolutionize  the  industry,  but  hopefully,  I 
can  save  my  bytes  inexpensively  .  .  .  and 
teach  my  children  hieroglyphics." 


47 


:\v ! . . .  V II A\ - 1 

features- 

mm  ultra  high  speed  intelligent  display 

—  generates  16,  64  character  lines 
of  alpha-numeric  data 

mm  displays  upper  and  lower  case 
characters 

mm  full  128  ascii  characters 

mm  single  printed  circuit  card 

mm  standard  video  output 

i 

SPECIAL  FREE  OFFER! 

Scientific  Notation  Software  Package  with  Formatted  Output 

The  floating  point  math  package  features  12  decimal  digits  with  exponents  from  +127  to  —127; 
handles  assigned  and  unassigned  humbers.  With  it  is  a  5  function  calculator  package:  +  —  X  "="  & 
sq.  root.  It  includes  3  storage  and  3  operating  memories  and  will  handle  chain  and  column 
calculations. 

With  the  purchase  of  (1)  VDM-1  and  (1)  4KRA-4  Memory: 


Just  $299.00  (Offer  expires  2-1-76) 


from- 

Processor  Technology 


viim;o 
display 

AVOIHJM 


I 


Corporation  S 


2465  Fourth  Street 
Berkeley,  Ca.  94  710 


More  on 

the  SWTPC 

6800  System 


Gary  Kay 

Southwest  Technical  Products  Corp 

219  W   Rhapsody 

San  Antonio  TX  78216 


The  Parallel  Interface  Board  is  used  to  latch  and  control  the  input  and  output 
of  8  bit  bytes.  The  Motorola  6820  Peripheral  Interface  Adaptor  (PI A)  is  the 
main  component  of  this  board,  with  several  smaller  chips  acting  as  buffers. 
This  board  permits  parallel  connections  to  such  devices  as  printers,  laboratory 
breadboards,  and  special  purpose  keyboards. 


In  the  December  1975  issue  of  BYTE  we 
talked  about  the  microprocessor/system 
board  (MP-A)  and  the  mother  board  (MP-B) 
for  the  Southwest  Technical  Products  6800 
microprocessor  system.  This  article  describes 
the  serial  control  interface  (MP-C),  the  2,048 
byte  random  access  memory  board  (MP-M), 
the  power  supply  (MP-P)  and  cabinet 
(MP-F).  We  will  also  talk  about  the  serial 
interface  boards  (MP-S)  and  parallel  inter- 
face boards  (MP-L). 

Serial  Control  Interface 

The  serial  control  interface  (coded  MP-C) 
is  a  5.25  inch  by  3.5  inch  doubled  sided, 
plated  through  hole  board  containing  a  6820 
peripheral  interface  adapter  integrated 
circuit  and  circuitry  which  forms  the  serial 
control  interface.  Data  rates  of  110  or  300 
baud  are  selected  by  a  jumper  wire.  The 
interface  includes  software  control  of  an 
input  to  output  echo  feature  which  is 
necessary  in  some  tape  reader  operations.  Its 
data  input  or  output  must  be  in  ASCII 
(without  parity)  and  either  20  mA  Teletype 
or  RS-232  compatible.  A  low  cost  terminal 
such  as  the  TV  Typewriter  II  (February 
1975  issue  of  Radio  Electronics  Magazine)  is 
ideal. 

IO  connections  are  made  to  the  interface 
via  a  10  pin  connector  along  the  top  edge  of 
the  board.  Power  for  the  board  is  provided 
by  a  5  VDC  regulator  at  a  current  con- 
sumption of  about  0.2  A.  12  VDC  and  -12 
VDC  sources  are  also  used. 


V^  ki*+  >    ,    W,    ***..    w  '  *j-    ^L*  ^.    ^^  IE 


m^A 


2V>  ®      X       M  K>  **    U. 


50 


ftl9*l§*&15 


"».  Is 


V)     -  '■„:%  :V^ 


The  Serial  Interface  Board  is  used  to  convert  parallel  data  from  the  processor  into  serial  data  to  a  terminal  (and  vice  versa).  The 
major  portion  of  this  task  is  accomplished  using  the  Motorola  6850  Asynchronous  Communications  Interface  Adapter  (ACIA) 
circuit,  which  Is  the  large  package  in  the  center  of  the  board.  The  remaining  components  on  this  board  are  used  to  provide  both 
an  RS-232  interface  and  a  Teletype  20  mA  current  loop  interface. 


The  board  itself  must  only  be  plugged 
onto  the  first  interface  port  position  of  the 
mother  board.  It  is  constantly  polled  for 
incoming  commands  by  the  Motorola 
MIKBUG  software  stored  in  the  operating 
system  ROM  whenever  the  system  is 
powered  up,  or  is  reset  and  is  under  oper- 
ating system  control.  When  system  control  is 
turned  over  to  your  program,  the  control 
terminal  is  also  available  for  program  10.  To 
output  a  character  to  the  terminal's  display, 
store  the  character  in  accumulator  A  and 
jump  to  subroutine  OUTEEE,  which  is  a 
character  output  routine  written  into  the 
operating  system  ROM.  To  input  a  character 
from  the  control  terminal's  keyboard,  jump 
to  subroutine  INEEE,  which  is  a  character 
input  routine  written  into  the  operating 
system  ROM.  In  this  subroutine  the  system 
hangs  in  a  loop  until  a  character  is  typed  at 
which  time  there  is  a  return  from  subroutine 
with  the  entered  character  deposited  in 
accumulator  A.  The  use  of  these  ROM 
stored  subroutines  greatly  simplifies  the  job 
of  the  programmer  for  control  terminal  data 
input/output. 

In  addition   to  the  Serial  Control   Inter- 


face, any  combination  of  up  to  seven  parallel 
or  serial  interfaces  may  be  plugged  onto  the 
interface  connectors.  Since  the  6800  family 
of  chips  includes  both  parallel  (6820)  and 
serial  (6850)  interface  elements,  interfacing 
is  extremely  flexible. 

Parallel  Interface 

The  Parallel  Interface  (coded  MP-L)  is  a 
5.25  inches  X  3.5  inches  (12.86  cm  X  8.57 
cm)  double  sided,  plated  through  hole 
circuit  board  containing  a  6820  peripheral 
interface  adapter  integrated  circuit  and  its 
associated  circuitry  which  is  used  to  connect 
a  parallel  data  device  such  as  a  printer  or 
parallel  data  terminal  to  the  computer  sys- 
tem. The  board  is  provided  with  two  sepa- 
rate connectors  along  the  top  edge  of  the 
board.  One  has  eight  fully  buffered  TTL 
compatible  high  current  data  outputs  along 
with  one  buffered  "data  ready"  output  line 
and  one  "data  accepted"  input  line  for 
complete  handshake  control.  The  other  con- 
nector has  eight  TTL  compatible  input  lines 
along  with  one  "data  ready"  input  line  and 
one  "data  accepted"  output  line,  here  again 
for  complete  handshake  control.  The  "data 


51 


The  memory  board,  show 
memory  chips,  is  one  of 
black  chips  at  the  right 
decoding.    The   two  voltdge 
remaining  integrated  circuits 


n  here  with  a  full  4096  word  complement  of  2102 

the  more  important  elements  of  the  system.  The 

dge  of  the  photo  are  interface  devices  and  address 

regulators  on  the  board  are  in  the  center.   The 

are  32  chips  of  I  K  by  I  bit  memory. 

ready"  and  "data  accepted"  lines  are  under 
complete  program  control  even  to  the  extent 
of  setting  the  transition  polarity  upon  which 
the  lines  will  be  triggered.  Interrupts  are 
under  complete  software  control  as  well. 

For  the  user  who  has  specialized  parallel 
10  requirements,  the  TTL  data  buffers  may 
be  omitted  from  the  board,  and  each  of  the 
sixteen  data  lines  may  be  individually  soft- 
ware programmed  by  the  user  as  either  all 
inputs,  all  outputs  or  any  combination  of 
the  two.  The  programmer  has  complete 
software  control  of  the  four  handshake  lines, 
two  of  which  are  software  programmable  for 
input  or  output.  Power  for  the  board  is 
supplied  by  a  5  V  regulator  at  a  current 
consumption  of  0.3  A. 

Serial  Interface 

The  Serial  Interface  (coded  MP-S)  is  a 
5.25  inches  X  3.5  inches  (13.3  cm  X  8.9  cm) 
double  sided,  plated  through  hole  circuit 
board  containing  a  6850  asynchronous  com- 
munications adapter  integrated  circuit  and 
its  associated  circuitry  which  is  used  to 
interface  a  serial  device  such  as  a  terminal  to 
the  computer  system.  Like  the  Serial  Con- 
trol Interface,  its  communication  must  be  in 
ASCII  form  and  either  20  mA  TTY  or 
RS-232  compatible.  Baudot  coded  teletypes 
will  not  work.  The  data  10  baud  rate  for 
each  of  the  interfaces  is  jumper  program- 
mable and  may  be  set  for  110,  150,  300, 
600  or  1200  baud  operation.  One  central 
clock  on  the  microprocessor/system  board 
provides  all  of  the  various  baud  rate  clocks 


52 


simultaneously,  so  that  each  of  the  serial 
interfaces  can  have  an  independent  data  rate. 
This  eliminates  a  good  deal  of  duplicate 
circuitry  and  keeps  the  serial  interface  cost 
low. 

As  with  the  Parallel  Interface,  there  are 
many  functions  that  are  under  software 
control.  Selection  of  one  of  8  different 
combinations  of  bit  count,  parity,  and 
number  of  stop  bits  is  user  programmable  as 
is  control  of  transmitter  and/or  receiver 
interrupts.  Checking  the  interface  for  trans- 
mitter buffer  empty,  receiver  buffer  full, 
framing  error,  parity  error,  and  receiver 
overrun  are  here  again  all  done  through 
software  just  by  reading  the  data  contained 
within  the  interface's  internal  status  register. 
External  connections  to  the  board  are  made 
via  a  ten  pin  connector  along  the  top  edge  of 
the  board.  Power  for  the  board  is  supplied 
by  a  +5  V  regulator  at  a  current  consumption 
of  approximately  0.2  A.  +12  VDC  and  -12 
VDC  sources  are  used  for  generating  the 
Teletype  currents  and  the  RS-232  voltage 
output. 

Memory  Board 

The  Memory  Board  (coded  MP-M)  is  a  5.5 
inch  by  9  inch  (14  cm  by  22.9  cm)  double 
sided  plated  through  hole  circuit  board  with 
data  bus  buffering,  and  address  decoding  for 
up  to  4,096  bytes  of  fast  2102  static  random 
access  memories.  The  basic  memory  board 
kit  comes  with  only  2,048  words,  however. 
To  fill  the  board  to  a  full  4,096  words  of 
RAM,  you  must  add  the  memory  expansion 
kit  (MP-MX)  which  contains  another  2,048 
words  of  memory  ICs  and  a  separate  voltage 
regulator.  Up  to  four  of  these  4,096  word 
boards  may  be  plugged  onto  each  mother 
board. 

The  2102  static  memories  were  chosen 
because  of  their  availability,  low  cost  and 
established  reliability.  Although  the  4  K 
dynamic  memories  are  becoming  popular, 
they  require  refresh  circuitry  and  slow  the 
processor  during  refresh  cycles.  Address 
assignments  are  made  on  each  memory 
board  by  connecting  the  address  jumper  to 
one  of  the  eight  possible  positions,  pro- 
gressing on  each  memory  board  from  0  to  7. 
This  programs  the  boards  from  0  to  32  K 
words  in  4  K  word  increments.  Since  each 
mother  board  will  only  support  up  to  four 
4,096  word  memory  boards,  it  is  necessary 
to  use  another  mother  board  with  separate 
power  supply  to  expand  the  memory 
beyond  16,384  words.  Power  for  the  lower 
2,048  words  of  memory  as  well  as  the 
decode  and  buffer  circuits  is  provided  by  a  5 
V  regulator  with  a  current  consumption  of 
approximately  0.8  A.  Power  for  the  upper 
2,048    words   of   memory    when   present  is 


provided  by  a  separate  5  V  regulator  at  a 

current  consumption  of  approximately  0.6 

A. 

Power  Supply 

The  MP-P  power  supply  consists  of  a 
power  transformer,  high  current  bridge  recti- 
fier, filter  capacitor,  and  power  supply 
board.  The  low  voltage  transformer  sec- 
ondary winding,  bridge  rectifier  and  filter 
capacitor  provide  the  7  to  8  V  DC  at  10  A 
required  by  the  complement  of  boards  in  the 
computer  system.  Since  the  regulation  down 
to  5  V  is  provided  on  each  of  the  system 
boards,  the  actual  value  of  this  voltage  is  not 
critical.  It  must  however  be  maintained  at  no 
less  than  7  V  for  proper  regulator  operation 
while  not  so  high  as  to  cause  the  regulators 
to  generate  abnormal  temperatures. 

The  higher  voltage  transformer  secondary 
winding  along  with  the  rectifiers  and  filter 
capacitors  on  the  power  supply  board  pro- 
vide the  +  12  and  -12  V  DC  at  0.5  A 
required  by  the  control  and  serial  interfaces. 
All  connections  from  the  power  supply  to 
the  mother  board  are  made  through  an  easily 
detached  connector  on  the  power  supply 
board.  This  makes  mother  board  installation 
and  removal  a  snap.  The  power  transformer's 
primary  may  be  wired  for  either  120  or  240 
VAC  operation  with  a  current  consumption 
of  120  VAC  at  1  A  or  240  VAC  at  0.5  A. 

Chassis  and  Cover 

All  of  the  boards  for  the  6800  computer 
system  including  the  power  supply  are 
housed  in  a  1 5.125  inches  wide  X  7.0  inches 
high  X  15.25  inches  deep  (37.05  cm  wide  X 
17.15  cm  high  X  37.36  cm  deep)  anodized 
aluminum  chassis  with  a  perforated  cover. 
The  use  of  the  perforated  cover  eliminates 
the  need  for  a  cooling  fan  in  almost  all 
environments.  The  front  panel  supports  both 
the  POWER  on-off  and  RESET  switches. 
The  RESET  switch  initializes  all  of  the 
registers  in  the  system  and  loads  the  terminal 
controlled  Motorola  MIKBUG  operating 
system  whenever  depressed.  The  rear  panel 
contains  an  array  of  holes  through  which  the 
interface  cables  and  line  cord  may  pass.  Both 
panels  along  with  the  cover  may  be  easily 
removed  providing  360°  access  to  the  system 
for  prototyping  or  service. 

The  6800  system  presented  within  this 
and  the  previous  article,  has  been  shown  to 
have  outstanding  ease  of  use  and  is  an 
economical  package.  But  as  many  of  us 
already  know,  hardware  is  but  a  small  part 
of  a  "computer  system."  Programming,  or 
software  as  it  is  generally  referred  to,  is  just 
as  important  as  the  hardware.  Of  course  this 
system  does  have  a  very  useful  ROM  stored 
operating  system,  but  what  else  is  available, 


and  how  does  one  load  such  software  in 
memory  without  having  to  type  it  in 
through  the  control  terminal  one  byte  at  a 
time?  Well,  first  of  all  several  diagnostic 
listings  are  provided  by  the  manufacturer  of 
the  kit  to  help  check  out  the  various  boards 
within  the  system.  These  diagnostics  are 
typically  less  than  90  bytes  in  length  and  can 
be  entered  manually  from  the  control  ter- 
minal in  less  than  five  minutes.  Included 
within  these  diagnostics  are  two  programs 
that  provide  a  thorough  checkout  of  the 
random  access  memory  boards,  a  common 
failure  point  for  many  systems. 

Regarding  some  method  of  storing  and 
loading  in  programs,  a  low  cost  audio  cas- 
sette tape  digital  storage  system  is  presently 
in  the  works  that  will  be  totally  compatible 
with  this  computer  system.  You  can  expect 
to  see  it  in  a  forthcoming  BYTE  Magazine 
article.  Also  to  be  available  shortly  is  an 
editor/assembler  software  package  which 
will  be  sold  for  the  cost  of  the  documenta- 
tion and  tape  only  to  those  people  simul- 
taneously purchasing  4  K  of  the  8  K  words 
of  memory  necessary  to  support  the 
package. 

Another  note  of  importance  is  that  the 
ROM  stored  mini-operating  system  on  the 
Microprocessor/System  Board  is  exactly  the 
same  (MC6830L7)  as  that  used  on 
Motorola's  Evaluation  Module  and  Inte- 
grated Circuit  Evaluation  Kit.  This  means 
that  most  all  programs  written  for  the 
Motorola's  Evaluation  Module  will  function 
on  the  6800  computer  system  presented 
here.  Motorola  also  supports  their  more 
sophisticated  prototyping  system  called  the 
EXORcisor®  (Registered  trademark  of 
Motorola  Inc.).  This  system  has  a  larger, 
more  sophisticated  firmware  package,  but  it 
uses  the  same  6800  microprocessor  element, 
therefore  much  of  its  software  is  compatible 
with  the  6800  system  presented  here. 
Because  of  this  compatibility,  arrangements 
have  been  made  with  Motorola  Inc.  to  allow 
Southwest  Technical  Products  6800  Com- 
puter System  customers  to  have  access  to 
Motorola's  6800  program  library.  Customers 
will  be  permitted  to  join  by  either  sub- 
mitting an  acceptable  program  or  by  paying 
a  membership  fee.  Either  makes  them  a 
member  of  the  Motorola  6800  User's  Group 
for  two  years  with  access  to  programs  within 
the  library  plus  upcoming  program 
additions. 

For  those  applications  requiring  the 
utmost  in  speed  and  storage  capability, 
arrangements  are  in  the  works  with  ICOM 
Corporation  to  supply  a  floppy  disk  and 
floppy  disk  operating  system  (FDOS)  that  is 
compatible  with  the  6800  system  described 
in  this  article.  ■ 


53 


This  photograph  illustrates  two  common  LEDs  which  were  purchased  from  suppliers  advertising  in  the  pages  of  BYTE.  The 
grouping  at  the  left  is  a  highly  desirable  MV5024  lamp  with  mounting  ring  and  collar.  This  facilitates  a  convenient  panel 
mounting  of  the  lamp.  The  lamp  at  the  right  is  a  Hewlett  Packard  5082-4487  LED  which  is  typical  of  the  small  LEDs  which  are 
useful  as  in-circuit  indicators. 


LEDs  Light  Up  Your  Logic 


E   W  Gray 
3321  O  'Henry  Dr 
Garland   TX   75042 


Of  the  many  technological  developments 
in  recent  years,  perhaps  none  is  more 
intriguing  than  the  visible  light  emitting 
diode,  or  LED.  This  tiny  semiconductor 
device,  with  its  hypnotic  red  glow,  is  a  far 
cry  from  the  cat  whiskered  crystals  which 
introduced  so  many  of  us  old-timers  to  the 
wonderful  world  of  electronics.  A  crystalline 
compound  of  gallium,  arsenic,  and  phos- 
phorous, the  LED  is  a  diode  that  emits 
visible  light  when  forward  biased.  No 
attempt  is  made  here  to  explain  how  the 
light  emission  works.  Instead,  this  article 
shows  how  LEDs  can  be  used  to  advantage 
as  data  displays,  fault,  and  status  indicators. 

These  highly  reliable  devices  have  largely 
eliminated  burnout  associated  with  incan- 
descent indicators.  Their  small  size,  low  cost, 
and  low  power  requirement  make  their  use 
as  indicators  in  circuits  very  desirable.  The 
LED  is  ideally  suited  to  today's  digital 
circuits,  since  it  can  be  driven  directly  from 
the  logic  elements. 

Some  Applications 

Hand-held  logic  probes,  many  of  them 
using    LEDs  as  indicators,  are  well   known 


(see  December  1975  BYTE  4  for  Alex.  F. 
Burr's  review  of  several  commercial  probes 
on  page  20,  and  for  Bob  Baker  and  John 
Errico's  plan  of  a  handy  logic  test  clip  using 
LEDs  as  readouts  on  page  26).  But  why  not 
simply  incorporate  the  diode  directly  into 
your  next  project?  Select  the  circuit  points 
which  reveal  the  most  about  circuit  opera- 
tion and  monitor  them  with  LEDs.  For 
example,  a  single  LED  driven  from  a  key- 
board strobe  signal  monitors  the  data 
transfer  operation  each  time  a  key  is 
depressed. 

Or  devote  a  diode  to  the  output  of  the 
system  clock  generator.  Given  a  clock  rate, 
select  the  diode's  current  limiting  resistor  so 
that  the  diode  glows  dimly  when  the  clock  is 
operating  normally.  Should  the  clock  fail, 
the  LED  will  either  be  extinguished  or  at  full 
brilliance  depending  on  which  logical  state 
results  from  the  failure. 

Obvious  applications  include  the  outputs 
of  control  flip  flops  and  state  counters.  Not 
so  obvious,  perhaps,  is  a  shift  register  output 
monitored  to  show  normal  data  recircula- 
tion, or  diode  logic  built  with  LEDs  as  a 
training  aid. 


54 


TO  OTHER 
LOGIC  GATES 


Figure  I:  In  circuit  indicators.  A:  The  diode 
lights  when  both  inputs  are  at  the  high  level. 


TOOTHER 
LOGIC  GATES 


B:  The  diode  lights  when  either  input  is  at 
the  low  level. 


LED  =  Light  Emitting 
Diode  is  a  specially 
constructed  diode  which 
emits  light  when  forward 
biased. 


In  a  digital  system  having  several  registers, 
the  addition  of  a  multiplexer  provides  a  path 
to  switch  selected  register  content  to  a  LED 
display.  In  a  bus  oriented  system,  use  a  bus 
receiver  to  drive  LEDs  from  the  bus  itself 
(one  diode  for  each  bit)  and  all  data  sources 
in  the  system  are  available  for  visual  examin- 
ation. 

Designing  With  LEDs 

Rules  for  using  light  emitting  diodes  are 
simple.  As  with  any  semiconductor  device, 
read  the  specification  sheet  first.  The  typical 
spec  sheet  will  contain  the  device  descrip- 
tion, dimensions  of  the  package  and 
mounting  details,  and  perhaps  a  few  device 
features  or  applications.  Most  important, 
however,  is  the  section  defining  electrical 
characteristics.  It  is  from  these  specifications 
that  we  determine  how  a  particular  device  is 
to  be  operated.  For  most  designs,  the  only 
information  required  to  insure  satisfactory 
operation  will  be  the  diode's  forward 
potential  (V)  and  forward  current  (A) 
ratings.  These  parameters  allow  selection  of 
the  series  current  limiting  resistor  used  to 
control  brightness.  Relative  brightness  of  the 
emitted  light  is  dependent  on  the  forward 
current.  Generally,  a  diode  will  begin  to  emit 
light  at  about  .5  mA  forward  current.  The 
light  is  easily  seen  at  about  1  mA  to  5  mA. 
Forward  currents  of  10  mA  to  20  mA  bring 
most  diodes  up  to  full  brilliance.  Most 
manufacturers  include  a  graph  or  chart  in 
their  specification  sheet  which  illustrates 
brightness  versus  forward  current.  20  mA  is 
usually  the  recommended  value  for  viewing 
over  any  distance. 

Having  chosen  the  desired  brilliance  and 
the  required  forward  current,  and  given  a 
specific    supply    potential    (S),    the    current 


limiting  resistor  (R),  which  is  to  be  wired  in 
series  with  the  LED,  is  calculated  according 
to  the  following  formula: 

R  =  (S  -  V)  /  A, 

where  S  and  V  represent  the  supply  and 
forward  potentials,  respectively,  which  arc 
measured  in  volts,  and  where  A  stands  for 
the  forward  current  measured  in  amperes. 
Note  that  one  milliampcrc  equals  a  thou- 
sandth of  an  ampere  (.001  A  =  1  mA). 

As  an  example,  suppose  it  is  desired  to 
operate  a  LED  at  10  mA  forward  current. 
The  diode  will  be  driven  from  a  transistor- 
transistor  logic  (TTL  NAND  gate.  The  power 
source  is  rated  at  5  VDC.  The  LED  specifica- 
tion sheet  requires  a  forward  potential  of 
1.65  V.  The  calculation  is: 

R  =   (5-1.65)  /.01  =335 

The  closest  standard  resistor  of  330  O  can  be 
used. 

Some  Typical  Circuits 

Two  methods  of  monitoring  TTL  logic 
using  permanently  installed  circuit  indicators 
are  shown  in  figure  1.  In  part  A  of  figure  1 
the  diode  will  light  when  the  gate  output  is 
at  the  low  level.  Since  the  7400  NAND  gate 
is  capable  of  16  mA  sink  current,  the  diode 
current  should  be  limited  to  this  amount. 
Normally,  the  gate  will  be  used  to  drive 
other  logic;  the  driving  ability  of  the  gate 
(fanout)  will  be  reduced  by  the  amount  of 
current  diverted  through  the  diode,  divided 
by  the  current  required  at  a  gate's  input.  For 
example,  TTL  gates  require  1.6  mA  input 
current  at  the  low  level.  If  the  LED  is 
operated  at  10  mA,  fanout  will  be  reduced 


As  with  any  semicon- 
ductor device,  read  the 
specification  sheet  first. 


An  LED  can  be  driven 
directly  by  TTL  logic  for 
use  as  an  indicator. 


55 


MONITORE 
SIGNAL 


""^ 


/" 


R 
-WV- 


Figure   2:    Bypass  capacitor  increases  light 
level  for  signals  having  low  duty  cycle. 


LEDs    can    be    used  with 

logic   families   other  than 

TTL.     Such     uses  may 

require     buffers  and 
attention  to  ratings. 


LEDs  embedded  in  seven 
segment  displays  are  no 
different  from  discrete 
LEDs. 


by  slightly  more  than  6  loads,  so  the  gate 
driving  the  diode  should  not  drive  more  than 
three  additional  gates. 

In  part  B  of  figure  1,  the  diode  lights 
when  the  gate  output  is  high.  Although 
fanout  of  the  driving  gate  is  not  reduced  by 
this  circuit,  the  DC  noise  margin  at  following 
gate  inputs  is  reduced.  The  diode  current 
limiting  resistor  (R)  and  internal  resistance 
of  the  driving  gate  form  a  voltage  divider 
which  reduces  the  high  level  output 
potential  of  the  driving  gate.  The  diode 
current  must  be  limited  to  a  level  that  will 
not  reduce  the  gate's  output  level  below  the 
specified  minimum  for  a  logical  one.  For  the 
7400  NAND  gate,  this  is  2.4  V.  For  reliable 
circuit  operation  this  minimum  must  be 
maintained. 

It  is  often  desirable  to  monitor  circuits 
having  a  relatively  low  duty  cycle,  such  as 
strobe  lines  to  input  or  output  devices.  In 
such  cases,  adding  a  bypass  capacitor  as 
shown  in  figure  2  can  increase  the  light  level 
of  the  indicator.  Choose  the  current  limiting 


7. 

h 

/. 

SEGMENT 
LAYOUT 

/""7 

o 

OGIC  1 

1 

r 

LOGIC 

/ 

7 

0 

Figure  3:  Using  a  seven  segment  display  to  monitor  a  bit. 


56 


resistor  to  hold  diode  current  at  a  sale  level 
should  the  driving  circuit  fail  and  remain  at 
the  low  level. 

Using  LEDs  with  DTL  or  CMOS 

If  your  logic  is  implemented  in  a  logic 
family  other  than  TTL,  you  can  still  use 
LEDs  as  indicators.  Diode-transistor  logic 
(DTL)  gates  work  well  using  the  circuit  of 
part  A  in  figure  1.  As  with  TTL,  fanout  of 
the  driving  gate  is  reduced. 

Complementary  metal  oxide  semicon- 
ductor (CMOS)  logic,  popular  because  of  its 
low  power  requirement,  may  also  be  used  as 
the  LED  driving  clement.  Several  devices  arc 
available  which  will  sink  8  mA  when  used 
with  a  10  to  12  V  supply.  Among  these  are 
the  74C901  and  34049  inverters.  By  taking 
advantage  of  the  short  circuit  output  current 
specification,  the  74C00  NAND  gate  can  be 
used  to  drive  a  LED  using  a  1000  O  resistor 
at  9  V. 

Special  Purpose  LED  Devices 

Light  emitting  diodes  arc  available  in 
many  forms  other  than  the  single  lamp.  Most 
of  us  arc  familiar  with  the  seven  segment 
displays  used  in  calculators  and  digital 
clocks.  An  interesting  application  of  this 
device,  using  the  popular  MAN  I,  is  the 
display  of  binary  information  as  numerical 
ones  and  zeros  without  the  use  of  decoding 
circuits.  Details  arc  shown  in  figure  3.  The  b 
and  c  segments  arc  connected  to  be  perman- 
ently on.  Segments  a,  e,  f  and  d  arc 
connected  in  parallel  and  driven  by  the  true 
data  bit  to  be  displayed.  Thus  when  the  data 
bit  is  false  (logical  zero)  a  numerical  zero 
appears  on  the  display.  When  the  data  bit  is 
true  (logical  one)  segments  a,  e,  f  and  d  are 
extinguished,  leaving  the  b  and  c  segments 
displaying  numerical  one. 

In  addition  to  the  popular  red  lamp, 
LEDs  arc  available  which  emit  green  and 
yellow  light.  And  at  least  one  manufacturer, 
Monsanto,  produces  a  lamp  having  both  a 
red  diode  and  a  green  diode  in  the  same 
package.  This  device  forms  the  basis  for  a 
unique  panel  indicator,  as  shown  in  figure  4. 
Here,  a  single  momentary  switch  is  used  to 
both  start  and  stop  an  operation.  The  state 


of  the  controlled  operation  is  displayed  by 
the  two-color  LED.  A  red  light  indicates  the 
operation  is  stopped,  while  a  green  light 
indicates  it  is  running.  A  typical  application 
would  be  the  start  and  stop  switch  on  a 
computer  panel.  Switch  SI  is  normally  in 
the  center  (off)  position.  A  latching  circuit 
composed  of  two  TTL  inverters  serves  as  a 
run  and  halt  flip  flop  and  also  debounccs  the 
panel  switch.  Momentary  operation  of  the 
switch  to  the  stop  position  sets  output  A 
low  and  output  B  high.  The  two-color  LED 
is  connected  across  the  latch  outputs.  When 
the  latch  is  in  the  halt  state  (output  B  is 
high)  the  red  LED  is  forward  biased.  Resis- 
tors R1  and  R2  limit  the  diode  current  to 
about  10  mA.  Momentarily  activating  the 
switch  to  the  start  position  toggles  the  latch, 
back  biasing  the  red  diode  and  forward 
biasing  the  green  diode.  Dl  is  a  1N9I4  or 
equivalent  diode  which  effectively  shorts  out 
R2,  leaving  R1  to  limit  the  green  diode's 
forward  current  to  about  20.0  mA.  The 
different  currents  are  required  because  the 
green  diode  is  not  as  bright  as  the  red  diode 
for  the  same  current. 

The  same  manufacturer  also  offers  a  red 
bipolar  lamp  suitable  for  use  as  an  AC  line 
voltage  indicator  as  shown  in  figure  5.  The 
manufacturer  recommends  a  resistor  of  11 
kO  at  2  W  for  operation  at  1 1  0  VAC.  ■ 


NDEX  NOTCH 

TO   CONTROLLED  LOGIC- HIGH 
LEVEL  WHEN   GREEN  LED  IS  ON 


Figure  4:  Two-color  panel  indicator. 


MV5094 


(O) 


II. OK 
2W 
-VWi — 


Figure  5:  Panel  indicator  for  A  C  operation. 


From: 


SystemsResearchJnc. 

A  MODULAR  MICROCOMPUTER  SYSTEM  THAT 
EVERYONE  CAN  AFFORD!!! 

—  THE  SRI-500  SERIES  — 

SRI-F8  Microprocessor  Board  (Complete  with  1K  Words   RAM,TTY  $  325 

Interface,  and  a  special  DEBUG  program  in  ROM  called  FAIRBUG) 

SRI-PWR  Power  Supply  (+5V.,  +12V.,  -12V.  Regulated)  $     55 

SRI-CAS  Casette  Interface  Board  $     45 

SRI-SER-C  RS-232,  Keyboard  Interface  and  System  Control  Board  $     35 

SER-VI-A  Video  Interface  Board  (32  char,  x  16  lines,  R.  F.  and  $  175 

Video  out) 

SER-KBD  Keyboard  Assembly  $  100 

SER-RAM-2  2K  Words  RAM  Board  (Additional  Memory)  $  100 

SRI-ENC  Enclosure  (Complete  with  main  board,  switches  and  $  100 

rear  panel  connectors) 

NOT  A  KIT  -  COMPLETELY  ASSEMBLED  AND  TESTED 

We  supply  complete  software  support  and  offer  many  options  .  .  . 
CALL  OR  WRITE  FOR  FREE  INFORMATION 
(801)  942-1093 


SystemsResearchJnc. 


RQ  Box1512BD  ■   Sale   Lake   City,  Utah    84115   •  (BOD    942-1093 


57 


William  A  Walde 
28  Tuttle  Dr 
Acton  MA  01720 


Build  a 

TTL  Pulse 
Catcher 


TO  CIRCUIT        j-     ? 

o - 

UNDER  TEST    ~L 


TEST  PROBE 
GROUND  O- 


^V^T^p^)^!^ 


FALLING 


ICI  =  7400 


+  5 


ICI 
LOOKING  FROM  THE 
TOP  TOWARD 
SOCKET 


PIN  I  IS  NEAR^ 
THE   DOT^ 


14 

n 

I3 

n 

I2 

n 

II 

n 

I0 

n 

9 

n 

8 

n 

? 

740C 

i 

• 

TO   TEST 
'PROBE 


I*     PUSH   TO 
l0      SIMULAT 


U  U  U  U  U  U  U 
I    2    3   4    5    6   7 


E  PULSE 


TESTING  THE  TESTER 

Figure  I :    The  circuit  diagram  and  parts  list  for  the  TTL  pulse  catcher  design. 


While  checking  out  the  operation  of  some 
oneshots  on  the  address  latch  board  during 
the  construction  of  my  Mark-8  micro- 
processor, I  discovered  that  my  first  home- 
made logic  probe  could  not  detect  very  short 
TTL  logic  pulses.  Since  my  old  probe  would 
not  work,  I  needed  a  quick  and  easy  way  to 
tell  whether  a  short  TTL  pulse  had  arrived.  I 
dreamt  up  this  circuit  which  solved  the 
problem  by  adding  memory  in  the  form  of 
an  RS  flip  flop  wired  from  a  NAND  gate. 
This  pulse  catcher  will  detect  pulses  as  short 
as  the  combined  gate  delays  of  the  two 
NAND  sections  used  to  form  the  flip  flop, 
approximately  10  to  30  ns.  The  circuit 
works  by  changing  state  at  the  start  of  a 
pulse,  with  an  LED  monitoring  the  flip  flop 
output.  There  is  no  indication  of  the  end  of 
the  pulse  and  there  is  no  way  to  tell  if 
multiple  pulses  have  occurred.  After  a  pulse 
has  been  detected,  the  circuit  must  be  reset 
in  order  to  detect  the  next  pulse.  The  TTL 
pulse  catcher  is  designed  to  work  with  either 
a  positive  or  a  negative  going  pulse  as 
selected  by  a  switch. 

Construction 

The  original  version  of  this  test  instru- 
ment was  built  using  perforated  board  and 
flea  clips.  The  circuit  could  also  be  made 
using  a  small  printed  circuit  board.  Lead 
dress  is  not  critical,  but  the  polarity  of  the 
LED  must  be  observed.  Select  a  value  of  the 
resistor  R2  in  the  range  47  to  470  O  such 
that  good  illumination  is  achieved  with  a 
current  of  approximately  20  mA.  A  typical 
resistance  value  is  220  O.  The  tester  can  be 
tested  using  a  resistor,  a  bounceless  push- 
button switch  and  the  test  circuit  shown  in 
figure  1.  Label  switch  SI  to  identify  which 
setting  is  the  rising  edge  mode  and  which 
setting  is  the  falling  edge  mode.  A  clever 
approach  would  be  to  build  the  pulse 
catcher  inside  a  cylindrical  enclosure,  such  as 
a  pen  or  thin  tube. 

Using  the  Pulse  Catcher 

Connect  the  5  VDC  and  ground  terminals 
to  a  suitable  power  supply.  If  you  use  a 
power  supply  separate  from  the  main  system 
supply  of  the  computer  or  logic  device  you 


58 


A  POWERFUL  SUPERIOR  GRADE  8080  BASED  MICROCOMPUTER  SYSTEM   REASONABLY  PRICED. 


QUALITY  FEATURES  INCLUDE: 

•  A  commercial  grade  cabinet,  made  ol  heavy  gauge  aluminum,  custom  designed  lor  this  specific  product.    Rack  mounting  is  available  as  a 
special  option. 

•  Lu cite  display  panel  with  a  photographically  reproduced  legend  and  LED  display  mask.    In  addition  to  standard  lights  and  switches,  the 
heavy  duty  front  panel  has  an  extra  8  program  controlled  LED's. 

•  Rugged  commercial  grade  paddle  switches  backed  up  by  reliable  debouncing  circuits. 

•  (.old  plated  contacts  on  board  edge  connectors  to  assure  corrosion  free  contact  at  all  locations. 

•  A  heavy  duty  power  supply  to  handle  lots  of  extra  cards,  the  power  supply  delivers  up  to  20  amperes  at  8  volts,  and  3  amps  each  at  + 1  6 
and  -I  6  volts. 

•  A  sturdy  card  cage  to  properly  support  up  to  22  printed  circuit  boards. 

•  Plug  removable  front  panel  board  that  eliminates  the  normal  wiring  harness  between  front  panel  and  back  plane.    For  special  dedicated 
uses,  the  front  panel  board  may  be  removed  from  the  unit  altogether  and  used  only  when  program  changes  are  desired. 

•  A  lull  line  of  peripheral  devices  to  build  truly  powerful  and  complete  systems. 

•  An  exclusive  shared  memory  facility  from  the  company  that  pioneered  shared  memory  microprocessing.    Shared  memory  facilities  allow 
multiple  microprocessors  in  the  same  cabinet  to  share  the  same  memory,  yet  run  different  programs  in  parallel  with  each  other. 

•  A  full  compliment  of  board  options. 

BASIC  COMPUTER    INCLUDES:   8080A  Processor  Board,  front  Panel  Control  Board,  lights  and  switches,  power  supply,  Expander 
Board,  Cabinet,.  .  .  and  .  .  .  Software  (Assembler,  Monitor,  &  Text  Editor). 

PRICES:    KIT...  $439  ASSEMBLED  ...  $931  BASIC  8080  WITH    1  K  RAM  KIT...  $499       ASSEMBLED  ...  $1009 

OPTIONS:    Rack  mount,  RAM  &  PROM  Boards,  Parallel  &  Serial  I/O  Boards,  an  8  level  Priority  Interrupt/Clock  Board,  Shared  Memory 
Boards,  Interface  Boards. 

PERIPHERALS:   Floppy  Disk  Drives,  32  Column/125  LPM  Printer,  80  Column/300  LPM  Printer,  50  Megabyte  Disk  Drive,  30  character 
per  second  Printer  with  Plotting  Mode. 

COMING  SOON:     Free  BASIC  and  extended  BASIC  for  registered  IMSAI  8080  owners. 

TERMS:         Check  or  Money  Order,  Bankamcricard,  Master  Charge,  25%  deposit  on  COD  orders.    On  all  orders  under  $1,000,  add  5%  postage 
and  handling.    California  residents  add  6%  tax. 

SEND  FOR  FREE  CATALOG  OF  IMSAI  MICROCOMPUTER  PRODUCTS 

DEALER  INQUIRIES  INVITED 

SPECIAL  NOTICE  TO  ALTAIR  8800  OWNERS: 

If  you  would  like  to  step- up  to  the  superior  quality  of  an  IMSAI  8080,  you  will  be  pleased  to  know  that  your  ALTAIR  8800  boards  are 
"plug-in"  usable— without  modification     in  the  IMSAI  8080  cabinet,    furthermore,  by  acquiring  IMSAI's  unique  Memory  Sharing  Facility, 
your  ALTAIR  MPU  board  and  IMSAI  MPU  board  can  co-exist  in  the  same  cabinet,  operate  in  parallel  with  each  other,  and  share  all  memory 
in  common.   This  is  the  technology  that  laid  the  foundation  for  IMSAI's  powerful  HYPERCUBE  Computer  and  Intelligent  Disk  systems 
(recently  featured  in  Computerworld,  Datamation  and  Electronics  magazines). 

IMS  ASSOCIATES,  INC.,  1922  REPUBLIC  AVENUE   SAN  LEANDRO,  CA  94577 

(415)  483-2093 


are  testing,  be  sure  to  tie  the  grounds  of  the 
two  supplies  together.  Connect  the  input 
probe  to  the  line  being  tested  and  select  the 
rising  or  falling  edge  mode  via  switch  SI. 
Depress  the  reset  button  to  extinguish  the 
LED  and  arm  the  latch.  If  you  are  unable  to 
cause  the  LED  to  stay  off  after  releasing  the 
reset,  the  following  information  is  learned 
about  the  line  being  tested: 

It  may  have  a  steady  state  condition 
which  is  inconsistent  with  the  mode  of 
the  test.  Change  S1  and  try  again. 

You  may  be  observing  a  line  which  has 
regular  clock  transitions.  The  light  will 
never  go  out  when  testing  such  a  line. 

In  normal  operation,  once  the  pulse 
catcher  is  reset,  the  LED  will  remain  out 
until  the  first  pulse  comes  along,  after  which 
it  will  stay  on  until  reset  by  pushing  the  S2 
button. 

Theory  of  Operation 

Gates  IC1c  and  IC1d  are  cross-coupled  to 
form  the  familiar  RS  flip  flop  that  is  used  to 


remember  when  a  pulse  has  occurred. 
Momentarily  depressing  SW2  grounds  pin  9 
of  gate  ICId,  causing  the  flip  flop  to  go  into 
the  reset  mode.  In  this  mode  both  sides  of 
LED1  are  high  and  it  will  not  light  up.  In  a 
similar  manner,  falling  pulse  at  pin  13  of 
gate  IClc  will  cause  the  flip  flop  to  go  into 
the  set  mode  with  gate  ICId  now  becoming 
a  current  sink  for  LED1,  causing  it  to 
illuminate. 

Switch  SW1  is  used  to  select  between 
either  a  rising  or  a  falling  input  pulse.  The 
RS  flip  flop  always  needs  a  falling  pulse  to 
operate.  In  the  case  of  a  rising  pulse,  it  is 
inverted  by  gate  IC1  a,  which  is  also  used  as  a 
buffer.  Gate  IC1b  is  used  to  invert  a  falling 
pulse  a  second  time  to  put  the  pulse  back 
into  its  original  form.  Note  that  pin  1  of  gate 
IC1a  is  held  high  so  that  the  input  (pin  2) 
will  only  present  one  standard  TTL  load  to 
the  circuit  under  test  (as  compared  to  gate 
ICIb  where  the  2  inputs  are  tied  together). 

R1  is  used  as  a  pull  up  resistor  to  the  pin 
9  input  to  gate  ICId  for  noise  immunity. 
Resistor  R2  is  used  as  a  current  limiting 
resistor  for  LED1." 


Dressing  up  Front  Panels 


Don  R.  Walters 
3505  Edgewood  Dr 
Ann  Arbor  Ml   48104 


To  dress  up  panels  of  equipment  use  press 
on  lettering  (available  from  stationery  shops, 
college  and  university  book  stores,  and  from 
graphics  arts  supply  shops)  to  label  the 
various  functions  performed  by  the  compo- 
nents which  will  be  mounted  on  the  panel 
(see  figure  1).  The  lettering  can  be  pressed 
on,  wire  brushed,  chemically  etched,  or 
painted  surfaces.  The  only  caution  is  that 
the  surface  be  free  of  dirt  and  grease  before 
applying  the  lettering  to  the  panel. 

When  applying  the  lettering,  if  a  mistake 
is  made  the  mistake  can  be  removed  by 
gently  scraping  the  lettering  off  the  panel. 

After  all  the  lettering  is  completed  and 
you  are  satisfied  with  the  job,  lay  the  panel 
on  a  flat  surface  and  carefully  spray  the 
panel  with  several  (5  to  10)  light  coats  of  a 
clear  plastic  spray.  Allow  the  surface  to  dry 
before  applying  the  next  coat.  Also  allow 
the  sprayed  surface  to  dry  completely  (over- 
night) before  installing  the  components  on 
the  panel.  The  plastic  spray  protects  the 
lettering  from  being  rubbed  or  scraped  off 
easily. 


-AFTER  COMPLET- 
ING LETTERING, 
SPRAY  ENTIRE 
PANEL  WITH  PLAS- 
TIC   SPRAY 


FROM  PRESS- 
ON  LETTERING 
SHEET  TO  PAN- 
EL   SURFACE 


A  word  of  caution;  let  the  spray  dry 
thoroughly  before  mounting  the  com- 
ponents. Secondly,  on  each  spraying  put 
down  only  a  light  coat.  Otherwise  the  letters 
will  tend  to  move  (float?)  a  little  out  of 
place.  Also  be  careful  when  mounting  com- 
ponents onto  the  panel  so  that  the  lettering 
and/or  the  panel's  surface  is  not  scratched. 
The  end  result  of  lettering  and  care  will  be  a 
very  good  looking  piece  of  equipment. 


60 


Classified  Ads  Available  for 
Individuals  and  Clubs 

Readers  who  have  equipment ,  software  or  other 
items  to  buy,  sell  or  swap  should  send  in  a  clearly 
typed  or  printed  notice  to  that  effect.  The  notices 
are  free  of  charge  and  will  he  printed  one  time  only 
on  a  space  available  basis.  Insertions  should  be 
limited  to  no  more  than  100  words.  Notices  can  be 
accepted  from  individuals  or  bona  fide  computer 
users'  clubs  only.  Commercial  advertisers  should 
contact  Virginia  Peschke  at  BYTE  for  the  latest 
rate  card  and  terms. 

SELL  OR  SWAP:  Boards  and  main  frame  for 
Uniscope  100.  Keyboards.  Kleinschmitt  Line 
Printer,  TTY  BRPE11  Punch,  TTY  Type  270 
reader.  Misc.  7400  series  ICs.  PDP-8e  interface 
design  for  HSR.  And  as  they  say,  much  more. 
Roger  Geffen,  71  Moore  Road,  Wayland,  MA 
01778,617-358-2862. 

TRADE  OR  SELL:  IBM  360  to  NOVA  interface 
board,  DEC  input-output  boards,  dial  up  modems 
202's  various  types.  Can  use  components,  W/W 
proto  cards,  TEK  453  or  454.  Larry  Skibicki,  PO 
Box  47,  Hollis  NY  11423. 

BUY  OR  SELL:  Will  sell  one  set  of  PC  boards  for 
SWTPC  TV  Typewriter  I,  or  will  buy  one  set  of  ICs 
and  connectors  for  TVT-I.  P.F.  Curtis,  2146  Lost 
Tree  Way,  Bloomfield  Hills  Ml  48013. 

TVT  1  for  sale,  fully  functional,  half  duplex 
operation  110  baud.  Built  in  serial  IO  (RE  Feb  75 
pg  51)  having  cassette  IO  also.  Also  included 
telephone  originate  Modem  1070-1270  XMIT, 
2025-2225  RCV.  Two  full  pages  of  memory. 
(Southwest  Tech)  Keyboard  mounted  in  attractive 
wooden  box  with  power  supply.  Included  all 
interconnecting  cables  and  documentation.  You 
only  need  a  TV  monitor.  Asking  $325  postpaid 
USA.  Reason  for  sale:  getting  ASR-33  hard  copy. 
Call  or  write  C.  Zalenski,  PO  Box  92,  Johnson  City 
NY  13790,607-797-5777. 

FOR  SALE:  Tally  reader  and  punch.  Model  420 
and  Model  424.  Excellent  condition,  $150  for 
both.  Lou  Carbaugh  PO  Box  393,  New  Cumber- 
land PA  17070. 

FOR  SALE:  Teletype  Corp  5-level  100  WPM  (10 
CPS)  Typing  Reperforator  (Paper  Tape  Punch),  20 
ma  serial  in,  w/o  motor,  Model  LBXD9,  excel, 
condition  $25.  Teletype  Corp  5-level  100  WPM  (10 
CPS)  transmitter-distributor  (PT  reader)  serial  or 
parallel  out,  w/o  motor,  model  LPR45,  excel, 
cond.,  $25.  Teletype  Corp.  8-level  punch  model 
UPE800  for  ASR33,  like  new,  less  than  20  hours 
use,  $40.  Friden  Flexowriter  automatic  typewriter 
with  6-level  PT  reader  and  punch,  upper  and  lower 
case,  $100.  A.  Walker,  6000  N.  27th  St,  Arlington 
VA  22207. 

WANTED:  Back  issues  of  BYTE.  I  subscribed  late 
and  did  not  get  issues  No.  1  to  No.  3.  Make  an 
offer.  R.  I.  Demrow,  11  Linda  Road, 
Andover  MA   01810. 


Get  it  together! 


TYPICAL  APPLICATION 


In  aUnivue™  enclosure 

The  24xl21/2x3"  Univue  keyboard  and  control  center  enclosure 
gives  you  dimensional  flexibility  with  a  modern  low  profile 
appearance. 

The  blank  23x8"  removable  aluminum  front  panel  is  easily  cut 
to  accommodate  virtually  any  keyboard/control  arrangement. 
Over  200  cu.  in.  of  space  in  the  rear  is  available  for  housing 
additional  circuitry,  allowing  a  complete  and  handsome  desk  top 
unit. 

The  Univue  enclosure  body  is  made  of  precision  machined 
welded  steel  and  is  primed  and  surfaced  light  gray,  ready  for  the 
color  co-ordinated  finish  of  your  choice. 

Shipped  complete  with  aluminum  panel,  heavy  duty  non-skid 
rubber  feet,  plated  mounting  hardware,  and  Money-Back 
Guaiantee. 


29 


95 


plus  $4.50  postage  and  handling 

Ohio  res.  add  4%  sales  tax  -  U.S.  orders  only  -  Sorry:  no  C.O.D. 

Send  check  or  money  order  today  to: 


MJ 


ADVANCED  DATA  SCIENCES 

P.O.  DRAWER  1147  -  MARION,  OH  43302 


TO    BE 


'FREE"  Microcomputer  pictured  - 
with  M6800  Microprocessor 

RAM,  ROM,  PIA,  ACIA 

Expandable  to  64,000  Bytes 

Directly  Addressable  Memory 

GIVEN    TO   ALL   ATTENDEES 

at  WINTEK'S  "hands-on"  microprocessing  short 
courses  offered  in  San  Diego  March  16-18,  St. 
Petersburg  March  31-April  2, and  Austria  April  5-7, 
1976.  Tuition  $495. 

902  N.  9th  Street 

.  Corp.  Lafayette,  IN  47904 

(317)  742-6802 


WIMTBK 


61 


TV  Color  Graphics 


Don  Lancaster 
Synergetics 


A  graphic  display  lets  us  add  pictures, 
lines,  and  symbols  to  the  basic  letters  and 
numbers  of  an  ordinary  TV  typewriter  so 
that  it  can  be  used  in  chess,  for  video  art,  for 
games,  printed  circuit  layouts,  logic  dia- 
grams, charts,  and  so  on.  For  many  TVT  and 
microcomputer  uses,  the  ability  to  display 
several  colors  at  once  is  very  important;  for 
others,  it  is  simply  a  convenience  that  may 
not  be  worth  the  extra  complexity. 

Dots  or  Vectors? 

There  are  two  fundamentally  different 
approaches  to  graphic  displays.  One  is  called 
the  stroke  method.  The  display  is  told  where 
to  start  each  symbol,  which  direction  it 
should  take,  what  color  to  display,  and  how 
far  to  go  before  stopping  or  changing  direc- 
tion. On  the  other  hand,  dot  matrix  method 
breaks  the  display  down  into  as  many  raster 
scanned  boxes  or  dots  as  a  display  refresh 
memory  can  provide.  These  blocks  are  lit  or 
not  lit  with  a  selected  color  as  needed  to 
form  an  image. 

The  stroke  method  somehow  sounds  bet- 
ter, particularly  if  we  are  interested  in 
curved  figures  and  smooth  edges  on  diagonal 
lines.  But  it  has  problems.  Its  most  serious 
shortcoming  is  that  it  is  not  directly  com- 
patible with  either  a  stock  black  and  white 
or  a  stock  color  TV  set.  A  special  display  is 
thus  needed,  although  an  oscilloscope  can  be 
substituted  for  single  color,  low  resolution 
use.  Another  limitation  is  that  the  display 
and  memory  bandwidths  have  to  be  ex- 
tremely wide,  or  else  the  display  has  to  slow 
down  its  refresh  rate  as  more  and  more  sym- 
bols are  added  to  the  display.  This  can  lead 
to  unacceptable  flicker  even  with  a  special 
tube  phosphor. 

The  raggedness  of  the  dot  matrix  system 
can  be  minimized  by  using  enough  memory 


to  increase  the  resolution,  and  by  mini- 
mizing the  curved  or  diagonal  lines  to  be 
displayed.  The  dot  matrix  technique  has  one 
major  advantage  in  that  we  can  easily  and 
efficiently  mix  graphics  and  alphanumerics, 
simply  by  using  a  TVT  system  in  a  graphic 
mode  on  one  field  and  in  an  alphanumeric 
mode  on  the  second,  merging  the  two 
separate  displays  as  one.  Besides  giving  more 
pleasing  characters,  this  approach  has  an 
efficiency  advantage  —  only  six  bits  are 
needed  to  store  a  character,  but  35  or  more 
bits  are  needed  to  store  and  display  the 
extended  dot  matrix  character  in  a  5  by  7 
format. 

It  turns  out  that  a  dot  matrix  display  for 
graphics  only  is  actually  easier  and  simpler 
to  build  than  an  ordinary  TVT;  the  character 
generator  is  no  longer  needed,  and  the  high 
frequency  timing  is  usually  very  much  sim- 
plified. This  type  of  display  lends  itself  very 
well  to  existing  microprocessor  organization 
without  extensive  interface. 

One  limitation  of  the  graphics  dot  matrix 
approach  is  that  quite  a  bit  of  memory  is 
needed,  one  bit  corresponding  to  each  and 
every  possible  dot  location. 

Some  Television  Limitations 

What  are  the  limits  to  the  matrix  size  we 
can  display  on  a  television  set?  First  and 
foremost,  this  depends  on  the  amount  of 
memory  available  because  one  bit  will  be 
needed  for  each  dot  position,  and  a  frac- 
tional part  of  a  bit  (more  on  this  later)  will 
be  needed  for  that  location's  color  informa- 
tion. If  we  are  also  interested  in  gray  scale 
(brightness  variations),  more  than  one  bit 
per  dot  position  will  probably  be  needed. 
Gray  scale  techniques  may  not  be  worth  the 
added  cost  and  complexity. 

Black  and  white  sets  can  allow  very  dense 


62 


matrices.  For  instance,  if  we  have  a  black 
and  white  set  modified  to  display  72  charac- 
ters in  a  7  by  9  dot  matrix  with  two  vacant 
dot  positions  between  characters,  we  end  up 
with  a  horizontal  resolution  of  648  dots  over 
the  active  scan.  (This  takes  direct  video  and 
some  modifications.)  The  scan  rate  limits 
our  dots  vertically.  Without  interlace,  we  get 
262,  262.5  or  264  dot  resolutions.  If  we 
have  to,  we  can  go  to  full  interlace  and 
double  these  values.  Thus,  it  is  quite  possible 
to  have  a  512  by  512  dot  graphic  display. 
The  memory  for  this  display  would  take 
262,144  bits,  or  32,768  eight  bit  bytes.  At 
0.1  cent  per  bit,  such  a  memory  costs 
around  $264.  Besides  being  expensive, the 
density  pushes  the  line  pair  resolution  of  the 
TV.  Black  and  white  sets  can  handle  just 
about  anything  we  can  afford  to  throw  at 
them  in  the  way  of  graphics. 

Color  sets  are  much  more  restrictive,  but 
still  give  us  more  than  enough  capability  for 
very  useful  display  matrices.  An  unmodified 
color  TV  has  a  maximum  video  bandwidth 
of  3  MHz  brought  about  by  the  need  to 
eliminate  a  3.58  MHz  subcarrier  in  the  color 
processing  video.  Three  MHz  video  is 
roughly  equal  to  6  million  dots  per  second, 
which  gives  us  around  380  or  so  dots  per 
line.  This  doesn't  include  an  allowance  for 
horizontal  retrace,  so  approximately  256 
dots  horizontally  is  a  good  limit.  Similarly,  if 
we  don't  use  interlace,  256  dots  vertically  is 
also  a  reasonable  limit.  A  256  by  256  display 
contains  65,536  dot  locations  and  costs  us 
around  $65  for  a  single  color  display  at  0.1 
cents  per  bit,  and  somewhat  more  if  multiple 
colors  are  to  be  added. 

Even  if  we  were  to  separate  totally  the 
luminance  and  chrominance  channels  on  the 
color  TV  (A  major  job  that  eliminates  use  of 
the  TV  for  anything  else),  we'd  still  be 
limited  by  the  number  of  holes  in  the 
shadow  mask  to  resolutions  only  somewhat 
better  than  we  can  get  on  an  unmodified 
color  TV. 

One  very  important  thing  to  note  is  that 
the  color  bandwidth  is  far  less  than  the  dot 
resolution  on  a  color  TV  set.  In  addition,  the 
color  bandwidth  varies  with  the  colors  in 
use.  The  available  bandwidth  ranges  from  a 
high  of  1.5  MHz  for  an  orange  cyan  display 
to  a  low  of  0.5  MHz  for  a  red  blue  green 
tri-color  display.  Thus,  with  a  high  reso- 
lution display,  it  is  not  possible  to  change 
the  color  of  each  and  every  successive  dot  in 
the  horizontal  direction.  For  full  color 
presentation,  something  less  than  50  color 
changes  across  the  screen  is  pretty  much  an 
upper  limit,  particularly  if  we  are  to  mini- 
mize fringing  and  edge  shading  effects  and 
are  using  saturated  colors. 


ASCII 
INPUT 


4071  (CMOS) 
7432  (TTL) 
OR  GATES 


OUTPUT 
LOAD 


CHARACTER 
GENERATOR 


GRAPHIC 


-r 


;£>J 


A? 


-}  r 


-MVIDEO   OUT 


OUTPUT 

VIDEO 

REGISTER 


Figure  J:  An  ordinary  alphanumeric  television  typewriter  can  be  converted 
into  a  simple  (but  limited)  graphics  display  by  adding  four  OR  gates  as  shown 
here. 


The  limited  color  bandwidth  is  both  good 
and  bad  for  graphics  displays.  The  lower 
horizontal  color  resolution  means  that  colors 
should  remain  constant  for  several  dot  posi- 
tions at  a  time  in  the  horizontal  direction 
and  whenever  possible,  we  should  change 
colors  on  a  black  dot  or  blanked  portion  of 
the  display.  Since  this  is  the  best  we  can  do 
we  use  only  a  fraction  of  a  bit  per  dot  to 
specify  the  clot  color.  This  means  that  our 
color  storage  won't  add  much  to  the  basic 
memory  size  and  cost.  For  instance,  on  an 
eight  bit  word,  two  color  bits  can  specify 
any  of  four  colors  to  six  different  dot 
locations.  Or  one  color  bit  could  specify  a 
choice  of  two  colors  to  seven  different  dot 
locations.  Fortunately,  black  dominates  and 
counts  as  wide  bandwidth  luminance  video 
rather  than  color,  so  we  can  shift  between 
black  and  colors  and  back  again  at  full  tilt. 

Some  Simple  Graphics  Displays 

An  ordinary  alphanumeric  TVT  can  be 
converted  into  a  very  limited  performance 
graphics  display  simply  by  adding  one  quad- 
ruple OR  gate  package  as  shown  in  figure  1. 
The  OR  gate  goes  between  the  character 
generator  ROM  outputs  and  the  output 
video  shift  register.  It  monitors  the  leftmost 
dot  output  and  makes  the  other  dots  1  if  the 
leftmost  dot  is  a  1.  If  you  type  a  space,  you 
get  a  blank  location.  If  you  type  a  D  for  a 
dot,  you  get  a  white  box  at  each  and  every 
character  location  specified.  There's  nothing 
magic  about  using  a  D;  any  character  with  all 
leftmost  dots  which  are  a  1  will  do,  such  as 
B,  E,  F,  H,  K,  L,  M,etc.  .  . 

The  resolution  of  your  display  depends 
on  the  original  format,  for  you  get  one  box 


63 


OUTPUT 
LOAD 


-o  COLOR  OUT 
CIRCUIT 


4013  (CMOS) 
7474  (TTL) 


-o  VIDEO  OUT 


6  a— 
5  o- 
4  o- 
3  o- 
2o— 
I  o- 
ASCII 
INPUT 


Figure  2:  By  using  one  of  the  six  input  lines 
to  control  the  state  of  a  flip  flop,  a  two 
color  display  can  be  achieved.  Use  the  color 
out  line  to  drive  the  color  modulator. 

per  character.  With  a  32  character  per  line 
display  of  16  lines,  you  get  a  total  of  512 
"black  surround"  boxes  in  your  matrix. 
While  this  isn't  very  attractive  or  much  in 
the  way  of  resolution  (What  do  you  want 
for  only  14<t  extra  in  circuitry?),  it  is  handy 
for  studying  graphics  techniques,  and  is  of 
limited  use  in  games,  displays,  simple  video 
art  applications,  and  for  generating  large 
alphanumeric  characters. 

Figure  2  shows  how  to  add  color.  Since 
we  used  only  one  bit  of  the  word  to  store 
the  alphanumeric  information,  we  have 
enough  bits  left  to  handle  quite  a  few 
different  colors,  ranging  from  32  colors  on  a 
six  bit  memory  word  to  128  on  an  eight  bit 
memory  word.  The  color  information  is 
removed  directly  from  the  character  storage 
memory,  monitoring  bit  5.  The  color  output 
is  delayed  and  resynchronized  to  the  output 
video  with  the  flip  flop  as  shown.  This 
delays  the  color  to  match  the  delay  involved 
in  the  character  generator.  The  color  flip 
flop's  output  goes  to  a  color  subcarrier 
generator.  The  subcarrier  is  programmed  to 
produce  a  red  output  when  the  fifth  bit  is  a 
1,  and  a  blue  output  when  it  is  a  0.  It  returns 
to  reference  phase  during  horizontal  retrace. 

Now,  for  no  box,  we  type  a  space.  For  a 
red  box,  we  type  a  R  and  for  a  blue  box,  we 
type  a  B.  The  first  bit  of  the  character 
generator  output  decides  box  or  no  box 
(luminance),  while  the  delayed  fifth  bit  of 
the  character  generator  input  decides  red  or 
blue. 

We  can  pull  a  sneaky  trick  to  double  the 
resolution     in     the    vertical    direction,    by 


making  the  top  half  of  any  box  one  color 
and  the  bottom  half  a  second  color.  Better 
yet,  we  blank  out  enough  of  the  middle  of 
the  box  to  exactly  match  what's  blanked  out 
between  vertical  boxes,  so  we  get  even 
spacing  of  all  the  boxes  in  the  vertical 
direction.  For  instance,  on  a  5  by  7  dot 
matrix  with  three  lines  between  vertical 
characters,  we  use  only  the  two  upper  dots 
and  the  two  lower  dots,  skipping  the  three 
middle  ones. 

Figure  3  shows  the  details.  We  carefully 
search  the  dot  patterns  of  all  the  displayed 
characters  to  come  up  with  some  useful 
combinations.  The  inverse  of  bit  one  output 
is  what  counts  in  the  double  mode.  By 
typing  a  B  we  get  neither  box  in  a  character 
location.  Typing  an  A  gets  us  an  upper  box 
but  not  a  lower  box.  A  V  gets  us  a  lower  box 
but  not  an  upper  one.  And  a  <  gives  us  both 
upper  and  lower  boxes.  Color  may  be  added 
using  the  circuit  of  figure  2  connected  to  the 
seventh  and  eight  memory  bits. 

A  96  by  96  Full  Color  Display 

Let's  look  at  the  design  problems 
involved  in  building  a  full  color  display  that 
uses  a  modest  memory  of  2048  by  8  bits  for 
storage  (costing  $16.34,  at  0.1  cents  a  bit) 
and  yet  still  has  enough  useful  resolution  for 
chess  displays,  Pong  style  games,  video 
synthesis,  creative  art,  and  so  on. 

The  central  problem  in  designing  a 
graphic  display  is  proper  partitioning  of  the 
memory.  Partitioning  simply  decides  what 
portion  of  the  memory  is  related  to  the 
display  in  what  manner.  The  three  very 
important  partitioning  questions  are: 

1 :  How  many  resolvable  elements  in  what 
positions  and  colors  are  supplied  by  a 
single  memory  word? 
2:  How  is  graphic  information  separated 
from    alphanumeric   information  such 
as  scores  and  printouts? 
3:  How    do    we    separate    the    "seldom 
changing"   memory  portions  of  a  dis- 
play (such  as  the  chess  grid  or  a  foul 
line)  from  the  "often  changing"  parts 
(such  as  a  just  captured  rook  or  a  fast 
moving  hockey   puck)   to  simplify  as 
much    as    possible    the   software   and 
external  control  of  the  display? 
For  a  96  by  96  color  display  useful  for 
chess    and    Pong    style    games,    we    might 
partition   each   memory   byte   as  shown  in 
figure  4.  The  first  six  bits  of  our  eight  bit 


64 


408IICMOS) 
7408  (TTL) 


RIGHTMOST 
DOT 


;0^0 


FROM 

ROW  SCAN 

CHARACTER 

GENERATOR 

OUTPUTS 

(2513) 


^\h     743 


iO^O 


:£y-X> 


tc^o 


LEFTMOST 
DOT 


KCMOS) 
52 (TTL) 


LATEST 
DOT 


TO  OUTPUT 
-03  VIDEO 

SHIFT 
REGISTER 


MODE  SELECT 
NORMAL 


^h 


EARLIEST 
DOT 


4>J 

l^     INV 


4069ICM0S) 
7404(TTL) 


Figure  3:  Logic  required  to  generate  two  possible  boxes  within  one  character 
position  of  a  TV  Typewriter. 

word  specify  the  luminance  (black  or  not 
black)  of  six  dot  locations;  the  final  two  bits 
specify  the  color  of  all  six  of  those  locations 
simultaneously.  This  gives  us  up  to  four 
colors  plus  black,  and  lowers  the  color 
change  resolution  enough  that  the  color  TV 
stays  happy.  In  a  Pong  style  game,  the  goal 
and  sidelines  can  be  one  color  and  the 
opposing  teams  two  additional  colors,  and 
the  ball  or  marker  yet  another  color.  For 
chess,  we  can  use  a  two-color  chessboard 
with  two-color  opponents. 

While  our  first  six  bits  could  be  arranged 
as  six  successive  dots  horizontally  or  ver- 
tically, a  grouping  of  three  horizontally  by 
two  vertically  seems  to  work  out  well  for 


HORIZONTAL 


VERTICAL 
SCAN 


I -COLOR 
O-BLACK 


BIT 
1 

BIT 

2 

BIT 
3 

BIT 
4 

BIT 
5 

BIT 
6 

L 

LUMINANCE 


.WORD  DISPLAYED 

/   <■ 

[00=  1st.  COLOR 
)  01=  2nd.  COLOR 

"*— \  I0=3rd.  COLOR 
I  ll  =  4th.  COLOR 

(ENTIRE  3X2 
GRID  IS  ONE 
COLOR) 
CHROMINANCE 


BIT 
1 

BIT 
2 

BIT 
3 

BIT 
4 

BIT 
5 

BIT 
6 

BIT 

7 

BIT 
8 

WORD  STORED  IN  MEMORY 


Figure  4:  Using  one  byte  of  memory  to 
specify  a  3  bit  segment  of  two  horizontal 
scan  lines,  with  one  of  four  colors. 


DIGITAL  DATA  RECORDER    for 
Computer  or  Teletype  Use 

Up  to  2400  Baud    $149.95 


Uses  the  industry  standard  tape 
saturation  method  to  beat  all  FSK 
systems  ten  to  one.  No  modems  or 
FSK  decoders  required.  Loads  8K  of 
memory  in  34  seconds.  This  recorder 
enables  you  to  back  up  your  computer 
by  loading  and  dumping  programs  and 
data  fast  as  you  go,  thus  enabling  you 
to  get  by  with  less  memory.  Great  for 
small  business  bookkeeping. 
IMAGINE!  A  year's  books  on  one 
cassette. 

Thousands  are  in  use  in  colleges  and 
businesses  all  over  the  country.  This 
new  version  is  ideal  for  instructional, 
amateur,  hobby  and  small  business 
use.  Ideal  for  use  by  servicemen  to 
load  test  programs.  Comes  complete 
with  prerecorded  8080  software 
program  used  to  test  the  units  as  they 
are  produced.  (Monitor) 


SPECIFICATIONS: 

A.  Recording  Mode:  Tape  satura- 
tion binary.  This  is  not  an  FSK 
or  Home  type  recorder.  No  voice 
capability.  No  modem. 

B.  Two  channels  (1)  Clock,  (2) 
Data.  Or,  two  data  channels  pro- 
viding four  (A)  tracks  on  the 
cassette.  Can  also  be  used  for 
NRZ,  Bi-Phase.  etc. 

C.  Inputs:  Two  (2).  Will  accept 
TTY,  TTL  or  RS  232  digital 

D.  Outputs:  Two  (2).  Board 
changeable  from  TTY,  RS232  or 
TTL  digital. 

E.  Erase:  Erases  while  recording 
one  track  at  a  time.  Record  new 
data  on  one  track  and  preserve 
three  or  record  on  two  and 
preserve  two. 


F.  Compalabilily:  Will  interface 
any  computer  using  a  UART  or 
PIA  board.  (Altair,  Sphere, 
M6800etc.) 

C.  Other  Data:  120  V  -  (50-60; 
Hz;  2  Wans  total;  UL  listed 
#955D;  three  wire  line  cord; 
on/off  switch;  audio,  meter  and 
light  operation  monitors. 
Remote  control  of  motor 
optional.  Four  foot,  seven  con- 
ductor remoting  cable  provided. 

H.  Warrantee:  90  days.  All  units 
tested  at  110  and  2400  baud 
before  shipment.  Test  cassette 
with  8080  software  program 
included.  This  cassette  was 
recorded  and  played  back  during 
quality  control. 


ONE  DOLLAR  brings  operating  and  main- 
tenance manual  with  schematics. 

COMING   NEXT  MONTH  -   IN  KIT 

FORM 
Hexadecimal  Keyboard  —  Load  pro- 
grams   direct   from    keyboards'    16 
keys  and  verifying  display.  Does  not 
use  Computer  I/O. 

*  I/O  for  use  with  Computer  Aid  or 
other  digital  recorders.  Variable 
baud  rate  selectable  on  externally 
located  unit  by  one  knob.  Can  load 
computer  or  accept  dumps  without 
software.  Turnkey  Operation.  For 
any  8  bit  computer. 

*  Record/Playback  Amplifier. 
Expanded  version  of  our  Computer 
Aid  board  for  use  with  your  own 
deck  (cassette  or  reel  to  reel).  Go  to 
9600  baud  on  reel  to  reel.  Digital  in, 
digital  out,  serial  format. 

*  Interested  in  these?  Send  your  name 
and  address  for  brochure  when  released. 
Send    check    or   money   order   for   $149.95 
plus  $2.00  Shipping  &  Handling  (N.J.  Resi- 
dents add  5%  Sales  Tax)  to: 

NATIONAL  multiplex 


3474  Rand  Avenue,  Box  288 
South  Plainfield,  New  Jersey  07080 


CORPORATION 


65 


12  BITS/BLOCK    X    8  SQUARES' 
96  BITS  HORIZONTALLY 


12  BITS/BLOCK   X   8  SQUARES* 
96  BITS  VERTICALLY 


-  BORDER   SETS 
COLOR  OF    SQUARE 


|—i        ,    MEMORY 


BIT 


MEMORY 
WORD 


Figure  5:  Setting  a  chess  piece  into  a  grid  of  colored  squares  of  a  color 
graphics  display.  For  the  chess  board  application,  a  grid  of  8  by  8  =  64 
squares  is  required. 


60Hz 
REF 


PHASE  LOCK 
LOOP 


2.012160  MHz  ,► 


-OVIDEO    CLOCKING 


20  KHz     f- 


-o  VIDEO   LOAD 


bo'Hhz J^ 


-o  HORIZ    BLANKING 


4-4/3 

20  Hz  P 


-o  HORIZ   SYNC 


MEMORY  ADDRESS- 
ING a  OUTPUT  VIDEO 
SELECT 


-o  VERT    SYNC 


Figure  6:  System  timing  for  a  96  by  96 
display  grid.  In  this  scheme,  the  phase  lock 
loop  is  used  to  maintain  synchronization 
with  the  60  cycle  line  frequency. 


FROM 
MEMORY 


LOADS 
EVERY 
MEMORY 
ADDRESS 


OUTPUT  TO 
COLOR   GEN 


r£ 


'UPPER  BITS" 

SHIFT 

REGISTER 


T 


OUT 
— ►— 


A7 


dR 


PAR 
IN 


PAR 
IN 


"LOWER   BITS" 
SHIFT 
REGISTER 


OUT 


OUTPUT 
-o  TO  VIDEO 
COMBINER 


CLOCKS  OUT  AT  3X  LOAD  RATE 


1 

I  CHANGES   EVERY 
I  SECOND    SCAN 
I   LINE  DURING 
I   RETRACE 


LOAD   CLOCK 

J L  Jl_LUJ_ 


UPPER /LOWER 
SELECT 


Figure  7:  The  video  output  circuitry  for  a  graphic  display  is  simpler  than  that 
of  a  character  display.  This  logic  implements  the  3  by  2  format  of  figure  4. 


chess  and  many  other  games.  The  basic  chess 
grid  is  shown  in  figure  5  and  uses  one  eighth 
of  the  96  elements  in  both  directions.  The 
choice  of  a  rectangular  grouping  is  also 
handy  in  games,  for  the  ball  or  puck  can  be 
double  size  in  both  directions  compared  to 
the  goal  and  foul  lines  and  still  be  specified 
with  only  one  memory  word. 

Having  picked  our  basic  format,  we  can 
go  on  and  design  our  system  timing.  We  start 
with  a  vertical  rate  of  60  Hz  and  use  a  262 
line  non-interlaced  system,  for  a  total  of  192 
active  scan  lines  and  70  retrace  and  blanking 
lines  in  the  vertical  direction.  Thus  two 
vertical  lines  are  used  for  each  resolution 
box,  and  96*  2=  192. 

Our  horizontal  frequency  will  be  60  * 
262  =  15,720  Hz,  equal  to  a  63.6  micro- 
second horizontal  line.  With  a  reasonable 
horizontal  retrace,  this  gives  us  around  48  jus 
of  live  scan  time  for  96  elements.  The  time 
per  element  is  thus  a  relatively  lazy  half 
microsecond.  There  are  three  display 
elements  for  each  horizontal  word,  so 
memory  clocking  will  be  needed  at  1.5  Ms 
intervals.  One  possible  system  timing  setup  is 
shown  in  figure  6. 

The  output  video  circuitry  is  simpler  than 
in  an  alphanumeric  display  since  we  don't 
need  a  character  generator.  Figure  7  shows 
one  possible  arrangement.  The  memory 
words  are  clocked  once  every  1.5  lis  and 
three  bits  are  loaded  into  a  four  bit  shift 
register  and  clocked  out  at  a  2.01216  MHz 
rate.  The  other  three  memory  bits  are  loaded 
into  a  second  identical  shift  register.  At  the 
same  time,  the  two  color  bits  are  decoded 
and  sent  to  the.  color  subcarrier  system. 

The  registers  are  selected  on  alternate 
scan  lines.  This  automatically  picks  the  first 
three  bits  for  the  upper  three  boxes  and  the 
second  three  for  the  lower  three  boxes  of 
each  memory.  Note  that  we  can  use  a  data 
selector  since  we  only  change  it  during  the 
horizontal  retrace  time.  The  whole  job  can 
not  be  done  with  selectors  due  to  the  glitch 
and  settling  time  problems.  Note  also  that 
we  get  the  same  memory  words  back  in  the 
same  sequence  for  four  consecutive  scan 
lines,  two  to  display  the  first  three  bits  and 
two  to  display  the  second  three  bits.  This  is 
similar  to  the  readdressing  that  takes  place 
on  an  alphanumeric  TVT  when  we  get  each 
horizontal  line  back  at  least  seven  times  to 
produce  an  entire  dot  matrix  character. 

The  output  of  the  data  selectors  is  a  video 
brightness  signal  which  is  routed  to  a  typical 
video  combiner.  The  color  information  is 
routed  to  the  subcarrier  circuit.  Be  sure  that 
the  color  circuitry  returns  to  the  reference 
phase  during  the  horizontal  retrace  time.  Try 
to   design    the   display   so   that  most  color 


66 


Figure  8:  A  set  of  chess  men  constructed  using  the  video  output  circuitry  of  figure  7:  The 
diagram  shows  a  6  bit  ASCII  subset  character  pattern  to  the  right  of  each  figure  to  show  what 
should  be  loaded  into  the  memory. 


© 

© 

® 

© 

@ 

© 

© 

© 

DISPLAY 


(A) VACANT 


(B)ROOK 


© 

© 

* 

I 

* 

I 

- 

7 

DISPLAY 


ASCII 


DISPLAY 


(C) PAWN 


(D) BISHOP 


-- 

■ 

/ 

/ 

- 

7 

7 

- 

DISPLAY 


ASCI 


(E)KING 


(F)OUEEN 


z 

© 

2 

8' 

V 

S 

s 

S 

DISPLAY  ASCII 

(6)  KNIGHT 


= 

. 

6 

c 

6 

c 

■t 

• 
9 

ASCII 

t 

I 

P 

p 

$ 

I 

< 

9 

ASCII 

4 

Y 

/ 

/ 

0 

/ 

- 

7 

changes  take  place  on  a  black  or  blanked 
location.  If  color  fringing  becomes  a  prob- 
lem, a  slight  additional  amount  of  video 
delay  (with  respect  to  the  color  changes) 
may  minimize  this  effect. 

Using  this  circuitry,  each  chess  piece 
requires  8  characters  of  memory.  Figure  8 
shows  one  possible  arrangement  of  the  chess- 
men for  a  chess  display  (along  with  6  bit 
ASCII  subset  character  codes).  The  program 
of  figure  9  shows  us  the  starting  position  for 
a  chess  game.  A  basic  hockey  or  Pong  setup 
is  shown  in  figure  10  with  its  program. 

We  can  add  scoring  or  other  alpha- 
numerics  most  simply  by  using  an  ordinary 
TVT  with  the  graphics  display  and  alter- 
nating frames,  as  shown  in  figure  1 1  A,  or  by 
summing  video  as  shown  in  figure  1 1 B.  Both 
system  timing  circuits  must  be  locked 
together    and    have    the    same    number    of 


horizontal  lines,  and  the  same  amount  of 
horizontal  retrace  must  be  provided  in  both 
modes  if  the  television  is  to  recognize  a 
continuous  program.  Another  possibility  is 
to  use  simple  box  "stroke  style"  characters 
and  store  them  directly  in  the  memory 
matrix. 

Figure  12  shows  several  approaches  to  the 
third  partitioning  problem,  the  separation  of 
often  and  seldom  changing  data.  Most  often, 
a  graphics  TVT  display  will  be  used  in 
association  with  a  microprocessor  to  get 
extensive  game  capabilities.  This  has  a  tre- 
mendous advantage  over  wired  logic  in  that 
we  can  change  rapidly  a  game  format  simply 
by  changing  programs. 

The  object  of  memory  partitioning  is  to 
trade  off  specialized  timing  against  the  total 
number  of  memory  bits  that  have  to  be 
involved    with    every    computation   and   up- 


C 

BLACK" 

) 

R 

:.N'. 

B 

r'P.': 

K 

•B: 

N 

:R: 

•P-V 

P 

'.  P;- 

p 

■  p.;. 

P 

'■P-: 

P 

p 

P 

p 

•p; 

p 

■P 

P 

P.. 

:R. 

N 

B 

Q 

:K: 

B 

N 

R 

("WHITE") 


Figure  9:  The  starting  con- 
figuration of  a  chess  game 
is  established  by  repeating 
the  appropriate  character 
patterns  at  selected  places 
in  the  display  memory  and 
surrounding  the  piece  pat- 
terns by  the  border  pat- 
tern. If  the  "o"  character 
is  used  to  represent  the  8 
elements  of  the  chess  man 
selected  from  figure  8, 
then  the  pattern  for  each 
piece  is: 


0 

C  o 

C  o 

C  o 

C  o 

C  o 

9  8 


G     G 


< 


Each  "°"  should  be  re- 
placed by  a  character  from 
one  of  the  chess  patterns 
of  figure  8.  Since  the 
border  pattern  is  fixed, 
moving  a  chess  piece  is 
accomplished  by  moving 
only  the  8  characters  in 
the  center  of  each  board 
position.  Software  for  a 
chess  display  would  ini- 
tialize the  border  pattern 
at  the  start  of  play. 


67 


Figure  10:  Display  pattern 
for  a  Pong  style  video 
game.  This  figure  shows 
the  contents  of  display 
refresh  memory  for  the 
upper  half  of  a  playing 
field  display.  The  lower 
half  is  a  mirror  image 
except  for  the  location  of 
the  ball  (which  would  be 
controlled  by  the  software 
of  your  microcomputer.) 
The  characters  shown  are 
6-bit  ASCII  subset  charac- 
ters which  give  the  proper 
codes  for  the  3  by  2 
format  of  the  video 
graphic  generator  of 
figures  4  and  7. 


0 

G  G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

V 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

G 

0 

@ 

@  @ 

<s> 

<a 

@ 

@ 

<a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<s> 

<a> 

@ 

J 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<a 

<a 

<s> 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

1 

@ 

@  <a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@) 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

1 

@ 

(5)   @ 

@ 

<a 

@ 

@ 

<a 

@ 

@ 

& 

J 

<a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

(a 

@ 

@ 

J 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

1 

@ 

(5)    (3 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<s> 

@ 

@ 

@ 

J 

(3 

@ 

@ 

J 

@ 

@ 

@ 

J 

<a 

@ 

@ 

<5> 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<s> 

@ 

1 

@ 

(S>    @ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

J 

<s> 

<a 

@ 

J 

@ 

@ 

@ 

J 

(3) 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

1 

@ 

(S>    (3 

<a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

J 

<s> 

@ 

@ 

@ 

(3) 

@ 

@ 

J 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

1 

@ 

@    @ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<s> 

<a 

@ 

@ 

J 

<s> 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

J 

@ 

@ 

<a 

<a 

@ 

<a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

1 

@ 

@    @ 

<a 

<s> 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

J 

<s> 

@ 

@ 

J 

(3) 

@ 

@ 

J 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

(a 

@ 

1 

@ 

@    @ 

@ 

<s> 

@ 

@ 

<a 

[ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

J 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<a 

(3) 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@> 

1 

@ 

@    (3 

(a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<s> 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

(3) 

@ 

1 

<a 

@    @ 

<a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

(3 

<a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

(5> 

@ 

1 

@ 

(3    (3 

@ 

<s> 

<S> 

@ 

<s> 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<a 

@ 

@ 

J 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

(3! 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<a 

@ 

@ 

1 

@ 

(5)    (5) 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

(3 

@ 

@ 

@ 

J 

<a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<s> 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

1 

@ 

(3    (3 

@ 

<a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<s> 

<s> 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

(ffl 

@ 

<a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

1 

@ 

@ 

(3    (3 

@ 

J 

@ 

<5> 

(a 

<s> 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

(5) 

@ 

J 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

(5)    (3 

<s> 

J 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<s> 

@ 

@ 

<s> 

<a 

@ 

@ 

J 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<s> 

@ 

@ 

@ 

(a 

<3> 

@ 

J 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

<a  (a 

@ 

J 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

J 

<a 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

J 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

@ 

GRAPHIC  MODE 
TVT 

COMMON 
TIMING 

_„   VIDEO 

OUT 

| 

P  ! 

1 
1 
1 

ALPHANUMERIC 

MODE 

TVT 

1 
l_ 

ALTERNATE 

FRAME 

LOGIC 

GRAPHIC  MODE 
TVT 

OR 

COMMON 
TIMING 

__  VIDEO 
OUT 

ALPHANUMERIC 

MODE 

TVT 

Figure  1 1:  Combining  a  graphic  display 
generator  with  a  character  display  generator 
for  a  single  television  set.  One  way  is  to 
alternate  on  every  other  frame  using  a  digital 
switch.  A  second  method  is  to  sum  the  video 
signal  (using  the  OR  gate)  producing  a 
combination  output. 


date.  For  instance,  in  figure  12A,  we  simply 
use  the  entire  2  K  by  8  bit  memory  in  one 
brute  force  piece.  While  conceptually  the 
simplest  and  most  flexible,  it  takes  extensive 
software  and  a  long  time  to  fill  the  display 
initially  and  then  to  specify  any  changes. 

In  figure  12B,  we  have  added  some 
dedicated  timing  that  separates  the  chess 
playing  spaces  from  the  board  spaces.  This  is 
done  with  some  "crosshatch"  logic  gates 
that  pick  out  the  places  the  chessmen  are  to 
go.  Now  a  much  smaller  portion  of  memory 
is  involved  in  specifying  piece  locations. 
While  figure  12A  requires  1536  words,  the 
design  of  figure  12B  necessitates  512  words. 

Can  we  do  better?  In  figure  12C,  we've 
broken  our  memory  into  three  distinct  areas 
and  selected  them  with  wired  logic.  The 
main  area  is  the  board  background  which 
can  be  a  ROM  or  a  RAM  which  is  loaded 
once  and  never  changed.  The  second  area  is  a 
file  where  we  have  stored  the  programs  for 
the  six  chessmen  involved  (pawn,  bishop, 
knight,  rook,  king,  and  queen).  This  file  can 
repeatedly  be  addressed  to  go  in  different 
locations  in  the  main  graphics  display. 

Finally,  we  have  a  small  active  memory 
that  decides  what  chess  piece  of  what  color 
(or  the  option  of  no  piece)  goes  in  what 
location.  This  active  portion  of  our  memory 
can  be  as  little  as  32  words  since  there  are 
only    64    squares    and    only    four   bits   are 


68 


SOFTWARE 
CONTROL — 


SOFTWARE 
CONTROL- 


SOFTWARE 
CONTROL — 


BULK 
MEMORY 


2K   X  8  RAM 


BOARD 
MEMORY 


IK  X  B  ROM 


PIECE 
MEMORY 


512X8  RAM 


BOARD 
MEMORY 


IK  X8  ROM 


PIECE 

SUBROUTINE 

MEMORY 


24  X  6  ROM 


PIECE 

CONTROL 

MEMORY 


32  X 8  RAM 


GRAPHIC 
DISPLAY 


J    ' 


GRAPHIC 
DISPLAY 


'CROSSHATCH' 
LOGIC 


GRAPHIC 
DISPLAY 


'SCANNING' 
LOGIC 


'CROSSHATCH' 
LOGIC 


Figure  12:  Three  ways  of  organizing  the 
refresh  logic.  At  A,  the  most  general 
approach  is  taken,  with  a  full  refresh 
memory  for  the  entire  screen.  In  this 
approach,  computer  software  completely 
controls  placement  of  patterns.  At  B,  the 
memory  is  reduced  slightly  by  partitioning  it 
into  two  segments:  One  segment  has  the 
fixed  "board  layout"  which  is  set  up  at  the 
start  of  a  game  (or  burned  into  the  ROM  of 
a  commerial  product);  the  second  segment 
has  the  varying  information  on  placement  of 
the  game  pieces,  and  a  Crosshatch  switch 
electronically  combines  them.  Finally  at  C, 
even  further  specialization  is  introduced 
with  three  segments.  The  board  memory 
remains,  as  in  option  B.  Each  piece  of  a 
chess  grid  is  presented  as  a  special  ROM 
which  is  fixed  with  the  bit  patterns  needed 
to  generate  any  one  of  the  6  possible  chess 
men.  The  placement  and  color  are  specified 
by  a  final  RAM  segment  which  changes 
during  the  game. 


needed  to  specify  any  chessman  or  blank  of 
either  color.  Here  we  trade  the  simple 
generality  of  a  2  K  by  8  refresh  memory  off 
against  the  specific  optimization  of  the 
3-tiered  memory  for  board  games.  Only  a 
small  amount  of  dedicated  logic  is  needed 
for  this  specialization. 

In  a  Pong  style  game,  the  ball  is  specified 
as  four  bits  of  the  six  bit  word,  making  it 
twice  the  size  of  the  background,  foul,  and 
goal  lines.  Ball  motion  can  usually  be  com- 
puted during  the  vertical  retrace  time.  For 


instance,  if  our  microprocessor  has  a  10 
microsecond  cycle  time,  and  we  have  around 
4  milliseconds  of  vertical  retrace  time,  up  to 
400  machine  cycles  are  available  to  compute 
the  new  ball  location. 

The  96  by  96  format  seems  to  lend  itself 
well  to  game  graphics  and  seems  easy  and 
reasonable  to  build.  It  is  by  no  means  the 
only  possible  organization  for  graphic 
displays.  The  basic  partitioning  problems 
will  change  for  different  types  of  graphic 
displays." 


Hidden  in  the  matrix  are  39  words  related  to 

NIIIMRF 

R<s 

numbers.  Find  a  word,  circle  it  or  color  it  in, 

G 

M 

N 

E 

G 

A 

T 

1 

V 

E 

L 

E 

V 

E 

N 

l>ILIIVIDL 

i\3 

and    cross    it   off   the    list.   Words    may    be 

forward,  backwards,  up,  down,  or  diagonally 

X 

1 

L) 

A 

R 

H 

0 

S 

1 

1 

1 

V 

b 

R 

L) 

Kobert  Baker 

34  White  Pine  Drive 

but  always  in  a  straight  line;  never  skipping 

N 

L 

Y 

T 

A 

M 

H 

T 

1 

R 

A 

G 

0 

L 

E 

letters.  However,  some  letters  are  used  more 

0 

L 

T 

R 

T 

N 

0 

Y 

T 

N 

E 

W 

T 

1 

R 

Littleton  MA   01460 

than  once.  After  circling  all  the  words  on  the 
list,  the  unused  letters  will  spell  the  name  of 

1 

1 

F 

1 

1 

E 

0 

D 

E 

V 

1 

F 

M 

D 

D 

BILLION 

one  of  the  holidays  this  month.  The  answer 

1 

U 

1 

L 

0 

b 

c 

W 

U 

Y 

0 

A 

U 

N 

N 

key  will  follow  in  next  month's  BYTE. 

C 

N 

F 

L 

N 

T 

N 

0 

T 

L 

G 

D 

E 

A 

U 

BINARY 

A 

1 

1 

1 

A 

H 

N 

R 

l\/l 

1 

11 

V 

1 

S 

H 

COMPLEX 

DECIMAL 

FRACTION 

ONE                                     THIRTEEN 

R 

E 

E 

0 

L 

1 

1 

0 

N 

P 

L 

S 

G 

U 

L 

EIGHT 

HUNDRED 

POSITIVE                            THIRTY 

F 

N 

E 

N 

N 

H 

T 

A 

1 

E 

L 

H 

H 

0 

A 

ELEVEN 

IMAGINARY                        RADIX                                THOUSAND 

S 

0 

N 

1 

T 

T 

R 

H 

W 

L 

Y 

E 

T 

H 

E 

EXPONENT 

INTEGER 

RATIONAL                       THREE 

B 

1 

N 

A 

R 

Y 

0 

T 

R 

0 

L 

T 

X 

T 

R 

FIFTEEN 

LOGARITHM                       REAL                                  TRILLION 

G 

E 

X 

P 

0 

N 

E 

N 

T 

E 

R 

1 

R 

0 

U 

FIFTY 

MILLION 

ROOT                                  TWELVE 

1) 

A 

1) 

h 

<: 

1 

M 

A 

1 

Y 

F 

F 

B 

I) 

I) 

FIVE 

MODULUS 

SEVEN                                TWENTY 

FORTY 

NEGATIVE 

SIX                                       TWO 

N 

E 

V 

E 

s 

1 

N 

T 

E 

G 

E 

R 

Z 

R 

F 

FOUR 

NINE 

TEN                                      ZERO 

sees 


lAJT£FF^Cf 


Sqvih  U(i  VourT.V.T 


An  Excellent  Publication 


publication  of  the  Southern  California 
Computer  Society,"  and  is  published  month- 
ly. The  first  issue  features: 

"Toward    the    Design    of    A    Micro- 
Operating  System"  by  Lloyd  Rice 
"Teleprinter    Maintenance/Repair/Pre- 
ventative    Maintenance"    (Part    I)    by 
Cliff  Sparks 

"Soup  Up  Your  T.V.  Typewriter"  by 
Mike  Thompson 
"1  +1  =10?"  by  Jeff  Lendry 
plus  numerous  "featurettes"  and  de- 
partments. 
As  noted  in  this  month's  BYTE  editorial,  the 
SCCS   is   well    on   the  way  to  becoming  a 
national  personal  computing  society.  This  is 
clearly  indicated  by  the  objectives  of  SCCS 
printed  on  the  masthead  page  of  Interface: 

THE  SOUTHERN  CALIFORNIA  COMPUTER  SOCIETY 

OBJECTIVES 

A  non-profit  organization  whose  purpose  is 

A  To  exchange  and  disseminate  information  among  the  Society  memOers  concerning 
the  computer  arts  and  sciences 

B  To  provide  a  technical  assistance  to  other  members  ol  the  Society  m  those  computet 
projects  which  are  not  undettaken  lor  pecuniary  gam  or  profit  including  Out  not  limited  to 
hardware,  sotlware.and  computer  programming 

C  To  publish  books,  newsletters,  magazines,  and  other  periodicals  loi  the  benefit  and 
education  ol  the  Society  members  and  the  general  public 

D  To  conduct  and  sponsor  seminars,  lectures,  and  courses  relating  to  the  computer  arts 
and  sciences 

F  To  develop  and  maintain  computer  centers  and  laboratory  workshops  lor  the  members 
ol  the  Society  and  the  general  public  including  provisions  tor  time  shanng  operations 


BYTE  congratulates  the  Southern  Califor- 
nia Computer  Society  on  the  progress  of  its 
publication,  Interface,  from  an  excellent 
newsletter  into  an  even  better  magazine  style 
publication  with  32  interior  pages  plus 
cover.     SCCS     Interface     is    "the    official 


Clubs  and  Newsletters 


To  receive  Interface,  membership  is 
required.  This  can  be  obtained  by  sending 
$10  along  with  your  name,  address,  business 
phone  and  home  phone  to: 

Southern  California  Computer  Society 

PO  Box  987 

South  Pasadena  CA  91030 

or  call  21 3-682-31 08  and  leave  a  message. 


SCCS  Branches  Way  Out  —  to  the 
Delaware  Valley 

The  Southern  California  Computer  Soci- 
ety is  branching  out.  Word  of  the  Delaware 
Valley  chapter  of  the  society  reached  BYTE 
late  in  November.  The  contact  person  for 
this  chapter  is: 

Martin  Dimmerman 
1228  Barrowdale 
Rydal  PA  19046 

The  Delaware  Valley  chapter  will  be  of 
interest  to  persons  in  the  Philadelphia  PA 
and  Camden  N)  area.  Martin's  phone  num- 
ber is  21  5-887-6992. 


Attention  HP-65  Hardware  Hackers 

The  October-November  double  issue  of 
the  HP-65  Users  Club  65  Notes  came 
BYTE's  way  recently.  This  issue  is  of.special 
significance  to  those  individuals  who  want 
to  modify  and  add  on  to  an  HP-65  machine. 
"Inside  the  HP-65"  is  a  special  14-photo 
series  of  detailed  pictures  of  the  innards  of 


70 


the  HP-65  with  a  reference  grid  on  each 
picture  —  provided  by  William  Kolb  who 
dissected  his  own  machine  for  the  purpose. 
The  photos  are  accompanied  by  complete 
notes  on  the  dissassembly  process.  Other 
hints  in  the  same  issue  include  how  to  make 
HP-65  cards  from  other  readily  available 
magnetic  media,  how  to  split  the  enter  key 
to  obtain  extra  functions,  information  on  an 
HP-65  printer  interface  (including  photos) 
designed  by  Heinrich  Schnepf  of  West  Ger- 
many, and  a  write  protect  defeat  switch  for 
the  tape  drive. 

The  65  Notes  is  published  by  Richard  J. 
Nelson,  2541  W  Camden  Place,  Santa  Ana 
CA  92704,  and  regularly  features  extensive 
information  on  the  HP-65  and  other  pro- 
grammable calculators. 


All  !t  Takes  Is  a  Little  CACHE 

Bill  Precht  sent  BYTE  a  note  just  as  the 
February  issue  goes  to  press,  enclosing  word 
of  the  evolution  of  the  Chicago  area  activi- 
ties.   The   organization    is   now    known   as 


CACHE  (Chicago  Area  Computer  Hobbyists' 
Exchange),  and  a  mailing  address  has  been 
established: 

CACHE 

PO  Box  36 

Vernon  Hills  IL  60061 

Bill  sent  along  the  latest  issue  of  the  CACHE 
newsletter  along  with  word  of  the  name 
change. 


Micro  Fun  in  the  Big  Apple 

Robert  Schwartz  sent  BYTE  a  short  note 
that  the  New  York  City  Micro  Hobbyist 
Group  had  its  second  meeting  Friday 
December  12  at  LaGuardia  Community  Col- 
lege in  Long  Island  City,  Queens.  Interested 
parties  in  New  York  City  can  contact  Robert 
by  mail  at 

375  Riverside  Drive,  1E 
New  York  NY  10025 

or  by  phone  at 

212-663-5549  (evenings). 


UNBELIEVABLE!!!!! 

The  intecolor®  8001  Kit 

A  Complete  8  COtOR  intelligent 
CRT  Terminal  Kit 


$1,395 


"Complete"  Means 

•  8080  CPU  •  25  Line  x  80  Character/Line  •  4Kx8  RAM  /  PROM  Software 

•  Sockets  for  UV  Erasable  PROM  •  19"  Shadow  Mask  Color  CR  Tube 

•  RS232  I/O  •  Sockets  for  64  Special  Graphics  •  Selectable  Baud  Rates  to 
9600  Baud  •  Single  Package  •  8  Color  Monitor  •  ASCII  Set 

•  Keyboard  •  Bell  •  Manual 

And  you  also  get  the  Intecolor"  8001  9  Sector  Convergence  System  for 
ease  of  set  up  (3-5  minutes)  and  stability. 
Additional  Options  Available: 

•  Roll  •  Additional  RAM  to  32K  •  48  Line  x  80  Characters/Line  •  Light  Pen 

•  Limited  Graphics  Mode  •  Background  Color  •  Special  Graphics  Characters 

•  Games 

ISC  WILL  MAKE  A  BELIEVER  OUT  OF  YOU. 


<5       Send  me_ 


(no.)  Intecolor*  8001  kits  at  $1,395  plus  $15.00  ship- 


ping charges  each. 

Enclosed  is  my  □  cashier's  check,  □  money  order,  D  personal  check* 

□  $350  deposit/kit  for  C.O.D.  shipment  for  $ 

NAME 

ADDRESS 

CITY 


. STATE_ 


.ZIP_ 


'Allow  8  weeks  clearance  on  personal  checks. 


13 

Intollinont  Cuctomc  Tnrn    4376  R|dge  Gate  Drive,  Duluth,  Georgia  30136 
Nitemyeiit  systems  ujip.g,  Telephone (404) 449-5961 


71 


Report: 


BYTE's  Audio  Cassette 
Standards  Symposium 


Manfred  and  Virginia  Peschke 


BYTE  Magazine  sponsored  a  symposium 
on  November  7  and  8,  1975  in  Kansas  City 
MO  regarding  the  interchange  of  data  on 
inexpensive  consumer  quality  audio  cassette 
drives.  These  drives  may  be  used  as  one  of 
the  mass  storage  devices  in  the  first  genera- 
tion of  personal  computers,  and  will  retain 
importance  for  some  time  to  come  as  a 
means  of  interchange  of  software  between 
computer  enthusiasts  who  purchase  products 
of  the  small  systems  industry.  In  order  to 
promote  the  growth  of  the  industry,  BYTE 
sought  to  achieve  an  industry  standard  on 
audio  cassette  data  interchange  through  a 
working  conference. 

We  extend  our  greatest  appreciation  to 
the  18  people  who  worked  very  hard  until 
late  Friday  night  and  Saturday  morning  to 
discuss  the  multitude  of  problems  and  solu- 
tions associated  with  digital  recording  on 
auto  cassettes.  The  names  of  the  participants 
fcre  listed  in  table  1.  In  spite  of  the  short 
time  available,  the  participants  were  able  to 
draft  a  set  of  provisional  standards  which 
seems  to  promise  great  reliability  and  is 
rather  inexpensive  to  implement;  implemen- 
tations may  be  entirely  in  hardware,  or  may 
require  a  mix  of  software  and  some  minimal 
hardware.  Considerations  were  given  to  the 
problems  of  speed  variation  among  recorders 
and  playback  equipment,  start  and  stop 
delays,  recording  density  (or  speed)  versus 
reliability,  and  recording  frequencies  to 
avoid  interference  with  the  telephone  net- 
work in  case  some  users  plan  to  transmit  the 
tones  of  the  cassette  over  the  phone  lines. 

On  Saturday  afternoon,  Mr.  Felsenstein 
and  Mr.  Mauch  volunteered  to  write  up  the 
consensus  among  the  participants  as  to  a 
provisional  standard  which  has  been  repro- 
duced below. 

Provisional  Audio  Cassette  Data 
Interchange  Standard 

The  consensus  among  the  participants  of 
the  audio  cassette  standards  symposium  at 
Kansas  City  MO  sponsored  by  BYTE  Maga- 
zine is  as  follows: 


The  proposed  standard  centers  around 
the  use  of  a  frequency  shift  modulation 
method  from  which  serial  clock  data  can  be 
extracted  at  rates  of  up  to  300  baud.  The 
system  is  intended  to  be  used  with  low  to 
medium  cost  cassette  recorders  incorpora- 
ting electrical  stop  and  start  capability  which 
may  be  operated  under  program  control. 

The  technique  proposed  provides  for  long 
and  short  term  tape  speed  variation,  limita- 
tions in  bandwidth  due  to  effects  such  as 
tape  misalignment,  and  the  necessity  to 
retain  low  cost  and  low  complexity  of  the 
hardware.  The  technique  allows  for  potential 
operation  at  higher  tape  speed  than  the 
nominal  1.875  inch/s  (4.75  cm/s). 

A  mark  (logical  one)  bit  consists  of  eight 
cycles  at  a  frequency  of  2400  Hz. 

A  space  (logical  zero)  bit  consists  of  four 
cycles  at  a  frequency  of  1200  Hz. 

A  recorded  character  consists  of  a  space 
as  a  start  bit,  eight  data  bits,  and  two  or 
more  marks  as  stop  bits. 

The  interval  between  characters  consists 
of  an  unspecified  amount  of  time  at  the 
mark  frequency.  In  this  respect  the  data 
format  is  similar  to  that  of  asynchronous 
data  communication. 

The  eight  data  bits  are  organized  least 
significant  bit  first,  most  significant  bit  last, 
and  followed  (optionally)  by  a  parity  bit. 
The  total  number  of  significant  bits  and  the 
parity  bit  cannot  exceed  8. 

Where  less  than  eight  data  bits  are  used, 
the  unused  bits  (following  the  optional 
parity  bit)  at  the  end  of  the  character  are 
mark  bits  (2400  Hz). 

Data  will  be  organized  in  blocks  of 
arbitrary  and  optionally  variable  length, 
preceded  by  a  minimum  of  five  seconds  of 
marks. 

To  avoid  errors  due  to  splice  and  wrinkle 
problems  common  at  the  begining  of  tape, 
the  beginning  of  the  first  data  block  will 
occur  no  sooner  than  30  seconds  from  the 
beginning  of  clear  leader. 

The  contents  of  the  data  block  are  not 
specified. 


72 


The  data  block  ends  after  the  stop  bits  of 
the  final  character. 

Bit  clocking  information  may  be  ex- 
tracted from  the  recorded  waveform,  which 
is  always  an  integer  multiple  of  the  bit  rate, 
regardless  of  tape  speed.  This  permits  the 
recovery  and  retiming  of  data  by  means  of  a 
UART,  which  requires  a  clock  of  sixteen 
times  the  bit  rate,  although  other  simple 
circuitry  may  be  used. 

A  reliable  bandwidth  of  3000  Hz  was 
assumed  in  choosing  mark  and  space  fre- 
quencies due  to  the  head  misalignment 
expected  between  various  cassette  recorders. 
The  recording  technique  is  a  redundant  form 
of  Manchester  or  bifrequency  code  which 
has  a  long  history  of  reliability  in  the 
computer  industry.  In  its  present  form  it  was 
proposed  by  three  independent  manu- 
facturers at  the  conference.  One  cited  reli- 
ability rates  of  one  error  in  10**7  characters 
for  200  passes.  ■ 

Table    1:    Participants    at   Audio    Cassette 
Symposium. 

Ray  Borrill,  1218  Prairie  Dr,  Bloomington  IN 

Hal  Chamberlin,  The  Computer  Hobbyist,  P  O  Box 
5985,  Raleigh  NC  27607 

Tom  Durston,  MITS,  6328  Linn  NE,  Albuquerque 
NM 

Lee  Felsenstein,  LGC  Engineering,  1807  Delaware 
St,  Berkeley  CA  94703 

Joe   Frappier,   Mikra-D,  32   Maple  St,  Bellingham 
MA 

Bill  Gates,  MITS 

Gary    Kay,   Southwest    Technical    Products   Corp, 
219  W  Rhapsody,  San  Antonio  TX  78216 

Bob  Marsh,  Processor  Technology,  2465  Fourth  St, 
Berkeley  CA  94710 

Harold  A  Mauch,  Pronetics,  4021  Windsor,  Garland 
TX  75042 

Bob  Nelson,  PCM,  San  Ramon  CA 

George  Perrine,  HAL  Communications  Corp,  Box 
365,  Urbana  IL  61801 

Ed  Roberts,  MITS 

Richard  Smith,  The  Computer  Hobbyist,  P  O  Box 
5882,  Raleigh  NC  27607 

Les  Solomon,  Popular  Electronics,  1  Park  Av,  New 
York  NY  10016 

Michael     Stolowitz,     Godbout     Electronics,     Box 
2355,  Oakland  Airport  CA  94614 

Paul  Tucker,  HAL  Communications  Corp 

Mike  Wise,  Sphere,   791    S  500  W,  Bountiful   UT 
84010 

Bob  Zaller,  MITS 


1K    475  ns 

STATIC  RAM 

$4.25     for     one 

$4.00     each     for 

eight 


SIGNETICS 
2602  1 


k 


$3.75 
each  for  32 


all  orders  shipped 
postpaid  and 
insured.  Mass 
residents  add  3% 
sales  tax 


WHY  PAY  FOR  BEING  SMALL? 

Centi-Byte  is  a  new  source  of  memory  components 
and  other  necessary  items  for  the  computer  hardware 
builder.  Our  function  is  to  be  a  voice  to  the 
manufacturing  companies  representing  you,  the 
modest  volume  consumer  of  special  purpose  com- 
ponents. Centi-Byte  brings  you  this  special  intro- 
ductory offer  of  fast  memory  chips,  chips  fast  enough 
to  run  an  MC6800  or  8080  at  maximum  speed.  These 
2602-1  's  are  new  devices  purchased  in  quantity  and 
fully  guaranteed  to  manufacturer's  specifications. 

Centi-Byte  works  by  concentrating  your 
purchasing  power  into  quantity  buys  of  new 
components.  Let  us  know  what  you  need  in  the  way 
of  specialized  components  and  subsystems  for  future 
offerings.  With  your  purchasing  power  concentrated 
through  us,  together  wc  will  lower  the  cost  of  home 
computing. 


PO  BOX  3 1 2 
BELMONT,  MASS.  02178 


OS  I  MODEL  300  COMPUTER  TRAINER 

THE  MODEL  300  IS  A  COMPLETELY  ASSEMBLED  AND  TESTED,  READY  TO  USE, 
COMPUTER  DESIGNED  TO  "BOOTSTRAP"  THE  STUDENT,  HOBBYIST,  AND  ENGINEER 
INTO  THE  MICROPROCESSOR  WORLD.   THE  UNIT  IS  BUILT  AROUND  THE  M0S  6502 
8  BIT  MICROPROCESSOR  AND  USES  A  128  WORD  RAM.   ITS  CONTROLS  INCLUDE 
8  DATA  SWITCHES,   7  ADDRESS  SWITCHES,  MEMORY  LOAD,  PROCESSOR  RESET, 
PROCESSOR  RUN,  INTERRUPT,  AND  MEMORY  WRITE  PROTECT.   THE  DISPLAYS 
INDICATE  DATA,  ADDRESS,  AND  PROGRAM  EXECUTION.   TWO  INPUT  LINES  AND 
ONE  OUTPUT  LATCH  ARE  PROVIDED  FOR  1/0  PROGRAMMING.   THE  MODEL  300 
COMES  COMPLETE  WITH  A  LABORATORY  MANUAL  WITH  20  EXPERIMENTS  STARTING 
WITH  SIMPLY  LOADING  AND  READING  MEMORY  AND  FINISHING  WITH  0UTPUTING 
TO  A  TELETYPE. 

PDEEL  300  COMPUTER  TRAINER  COMPLETELY  ASSEMBLED  WITH  LAB  MANUAL 

(REQUIRES  +5V0C  AT  500MA) $  99,00 

THE  6000  SERIES  COMPUTER  FAMILY     (SIPERBOARD) 

A    COMPLETE    MINICOMPUTER    PC    BOARD    (DOUBLE    SIDED    EPOXY)    WHICH 
ACCEPTS    ANY      6000    SERIES    PROCESSOR,    SYSTEM    CLOCK,    2-    1702 
TYPE    ROMS,    IK    X    B    RAM    (2102    TYPE),    1    P1A,    1ACIA,    CURRENT    LOOP 
AND    PARALLEL    INTERFACES    AND    HAS    BUS    EXPANSION    CAPABILITIES. 
EACH      SUPERB0ARD    COMES    COMPLETE    WITH    DOCUMENTATION. 

SIPERBOARD  BARE  WITH  MANUAL      29.00 

6800     MICROPROCESSOR  AND  SUPERBOARD   JS  QQ 

£501     MICROPROCESSOR  AND  SUPERBOARD ig  QQ 

6502     MICROPROCESSOR  AND  SUPERBOARD  FEATURES 

INTERNAL   CLOCK     54,00 

ALSO  AVAILABLE  j 

ALL  SYSTEM  SUPPORT  PARTS 

RAM  -   ROM  MEMORY  EXPANDER  BOARD 

SUPERI/0  BOARD  CONTAINING  CASSETTE  INTERFACE;  X,  Y  DISPLAY 

AND  A/0  CONVERTER. 

VIDEO  GRAPHIC  BOARD 

DOMING  SOON: 

FIRMWARE  BASIC  BOARD  (USES  ROM  AND  CALCULATOR  CHIP) 

CALL  (216)  653-648^     or  write  today  for  our  complete  information  package. 


51 


OHIO    scientific     instruments 


P.O.  BOX  374.  HUDSON,  OHIO  44236 


73 


A  View  From  the  Silicon  Valley 


Jim  C  Warren  Jr 
Star  Route  Box  111 
Redwood  City  CA   94062 


Silicon  Valley,  better  known  as  the  Santa 
Clara  Valley  (or  Silicon  Gulch  by  the 
more  vitriolic)  is  located  about  forty  miles 
south  of  San  Francisco.  It  is  the  undisputed 
capital  of  the  semiconductor  industry  in 
general,  and  microprocessor  manufacture  in 
particular,  with  other  major  outposts  being 
located  in  Massachusetts  and  Texas.  It  serves 
as  headquarters  for  American  Micro 
Systems,  Fairchild,  Hewlett-Packard,  Rolm, 
Intel,  Intersil,  Teledyne,  Varian,  Anderson- 
Jacobson,  Signetics,  and  Four-Phase  .  .  .just 
to  name  a  few.  Expanding  slightly  to  cover 
the  San  Francisco  Bay  Area,  we  can  pick 
up  a  multitude  of  other  companies  of 
interest  to  the  computer  hobbyist,  including 
Godbout  Electronics,  and  Diablo.  To  put  it 
mildly,  much  is  happening  out  here.  Here  are 
a  few  about-to-be's: 

Call  Computer,  a  super  cheap  time-sharing 
service  well-known  to  and  well  used  by  the 
Homebrew  Computer  Club  crowd,  has 
recently  installed  a  direct  connection  to  the 
Los  Angeles  area.  It  is  actively  supporting 
the  needs  of  computer  hobbyists,  soliciting 
their  business,  and  offering  significant 
assistance.  It  has  contacted  the  Southern 
California  Computer  Society  hobbyist 
group,  offering  its  services  to  them.  Among 
other  things,  one  service  will  be  to  allow  Bay 
Area  hobbyists  to  converse  with  Los  Angeles 
hobbyists,  toll-free,  via  the  computer  link. 
This  communications  line  can  support  up  to 
six  simultaneous  30  CPS  (characters  per  sec- 
ond) bidirectional  links,  and  more  links  at 
lower  CPS.  Their  minimum  connect  time 
charge  is  99  cents  per  hour  (midnight  to  6 
AM).  They  offer  Hewlett-Packard  BASIC, 
and  Data  General's  ECLIPSE  software 
systems,  including  BASIC,  FORTRAN, 
ALGOL  and  assembler  languages.  (Call  Com- 
puter, 1961  Old  Middlefield  Rd,  Mountain 
View  CA  94043). 

Godbout  Electronics,  a  regular  BYTE 
advertiser,  plans  announcing  a  new  computer 
kit  for  hobbyists  built  about  MSI  (medium- 
scale    integrated    circuits).    It   executes   the 


PDP-1 1  instruction-set  and  is  quite  low  cost 
(Godbout  Electronics,  Box  2355,  Oakland 
Airport  CA  9461 4). 

Computer  Converse/;  Inc,  a  spin-off  from 
Call  Computer,  plans  to  announce  a  TV 
based  terminal  for  only  $595.  It  is  assembled 
and  ready  to  use,  includes  a  good-quality 
acoustic  coupler,  is  switch-selectable  for  10 
or  30  char/sec  and  full  or  half  duplex 
operation.  It  operates  with  any  home  TV, 
displaying  twenty  six  40  character  lines,  and 
can  replace  a  TTY  (Teletype  Corp.  ASR33). 
In  the  latter  part  of  January,  they  expect  to 
begin  marketing  the  acoustic  coupler  portion 
of  this  terminal  as  a  separate  item  for  $95. 
They  are  also  planning  a  June  announcement 
of  a  complete  system  that  will  include  the 
above  terminal  and  coupler,  plus  a 
microprocessor,  plus  an  80  character  line 
video  monitor,  plus  BASIC  software  for 
around  $1200,  assembled.  Incidentally,  the 
terminal  is  about  the  size  and  weight  of  a 
small  typewriter,  thus  easily  portable.  All  of 
this  gear  is  offered  with  a  full  warranty;  they 
are  a  new  and  small  company  and  most  eager 
to  gain  a  reputation  for  good  quality  and 
backing  their  products.  (Computer 
Converser,  Inc,  1961  Old  Middlefield  Rd, 
Mountain  View  CA  94043). 

New-goodies  rumor-mongering  is  a 
favorite  activity  among  Silicon  Valley 
engineers  and  technicians  at  professional 
meetings  or  martini  brunches.  One  rampant 
rumor  is  that  several  chip  houses 
(semiconductor  manufacturers)  are  on  the 
verge  of  announcing  the  digital  to  video 
chips.  Though  the  details  are  vague,  the 
general  idea  is  that  these  chips  will  be 
capable  of,  for  instance,  accepting  binary 
coded  brightness  information  and  horizontal 
and  vertical  coordinates  for  a  sequence  of 
points.  The  chip  will  then  buffer  this 
information,  and  use  it  to  generate  video 
signal  output  acceptable  to  a  standard  TV. 
Another  rumor  is  that  Intel  is  working  on  a 
simplified  controller  for  their  3000  series, 
bit  sliced  microprocessor.  The  3000  series  is 


74 


a  sophisticated  and  powerful  chip  set, 
however,  partially  due  to  the  complexity  of 
the  current  controller  chip  organization,  it  is 
definitely  not  for  the  computer  amateur. 

Nybble  is  a  term  rapidly  gaining 
popularity  among  digital  semiconductor 
pros,  around  here.  Obviously,  a  nybble  is 
part  of  a  byte.  Back  in  the  early  1960's,  IBM 
introduced  byte  as  the  term  to  specify  a 
portion  of  a  32  bit  word;  namely  an  8  bit 
portion.  Other  manufacturers  picked  it  up, 
some  even  using  it  to  refer  to  a  6  bit  portion. 
Now,  with  2  bit  and  4  bit  bit-sliced 
microprocessors  being  developed  by  the 
dozens,  nybble  is  becoming  popular  for 
referring  to  those  2  and  4  bit  slices. 

Who  says  this  is  the  kook  capital  of  the 
world?  Eccentrics,  maybe:  Lee  Felsenstein, 
furnishing  great  assistance  and  expert  advice 
to  Homebrew  Computer  Club  members, 
heads  up  LGC  Engineering  in  Berkeley.  LGC 
stands  for  Loving  Grace  Cybernetics,  of 
course.  Bill  Godbout,  president  of  the 
company  with  the  two  computer  kits  and 
flashy  ads  in  BYTE,  has  a  PhD  in  Operations 
Research.  George  Morrow,  an  Associate  with 
Godbout  Electronics  and  project  director  for 
their  MSI-11  design,  is  completing  his 
doctorate  in  mathematics  at  the  University 
of  California  in  Berkeley.  We  may  have  some 
unusual  ways,  out  here,  but  we  sure  turn  out 
some  dandy  toys.  ■ 


COMPUTER  REAL-TIME  CLOCK 

MM5318N  is  time  of  day  clock  chip  with 

output  in  BCD,  externally  multiplexed. 

System  can  address  each  time  digit  at  its 

own  rate  for  logging  or  user  elapsed  time 

measurement. 

MM5318N  -  w/data $8.40 

MODEM  CHIP 

MC14412  contains  complete  FSIC 
MOD/DE-MODULATOR  (  O600BPS  I. 
Ideal  for  low  speed  modems  and  acoustic 
couplers.  Originate /answer,  simplex, 
half,  full  duplex.  CMOS  for  low  power. 
Single  power  supply: 
VDD  =  4.75  to  1  5VDC  FL  Suffix  $2&99 
VDD  =  4.75to  6VDCVL  Suffix  $21 .74 
6  pages  of  data  $     .60 

BIT  RATE  GENERATOR 

Single  chip  for  generating  37  different 
frequencies  for  data  communications. 
Operates  from  singles  5V  supply. 

MC14411P $11.98 

4  pages  of  data $     .40 


Sfc 


tRi  tek,  inc 


6522  N  43rd  Avenue 
Glendale   AZ  8B301 


12  BIT  n  CPU 

IM6100  12  Bit  micro  processor  chip. 
This  CMOS  chip  recognizes  PDP8/E 
instruction  set.  Operating  on  4-7V  at 
400  H  Amp,  the  6100  and  its  CMOS 
supporting  chips  make  possible  true 
battery/portable  operation. 

IM6100 $52.50 

Data $  4.00 


MINIATURE 

ROCKER 

DIP  SWITCHES 


SPST  rocker  switches  in  arrays  bit  stand- 
ard DIP  sockets.  Perfect  for  P.C.  Board 
Address  switching,  data  channeling,  I.C. 
testers.  Last  2  digits  indicate  number  of 
switches  per  pack. 

DIS-76B04  . .  $3.10  DIS-76B08  .  .  $3.95 
DIS-76B06  .  .  $3.50  DIS-76B09  .  .  $4.1  5 
DIS-76B07  .  .  $3.75  DIS-76B10  .  .  $4.35 

TOUCH  TONE  KIT 
Super  good  buy  for  data  terminal  use  or 
amateur  radio  repeater/auto-patch.  In- 
cludes: II  MC14410P  CMOS  encoder 
chip,  1)12  character  Chomerics  2.25"  x 
3.0"  T.T.  KEYPAD  and  1)  1  MHZ  Xtal. 
All  for  only  $17.90 

ACOUSTIC  COUPLER 

Originate  only  coupler.  110  BAUD 
half/full  duplex  interface  between  tele- 
phone and  TTY.  Turn  your  TTY  into  a 
time  share  terminal! 

Model  501 A $164.00 

FOB  Glendale  AZ 


EXCEPT  WHERE  NOTED,  ALL  OR- 
DERS ARE  POSTPAID-ADD  INSUR- 
ANCE. MINIMUM  ORDER  $5.00  US/ 
$15.00  FOREIGN.  STAMP  FOR  LAT- 
EST LISTS. 


WARNING: Our  Hardware 
Assemblers  are  DANGEROUS! 


NEW  fromCELDAT: 


You  can  get  hooked  on  the  graphics  display  card  by  Jim  Hogenson 
(Oct.  BYTE),  for  example  -  it  is  so  much  fun  that  this  user  produced: 


Or  take  the  4x8  memory  matrix  card  —  with  this  it  is  so  easy  and 
inexpensive  to  add  static  RAM  to  your  custom  system  that  you'll  want 
more,  and  more,  ....  and  more.  And  with  our  prototyping  card  those 
subassemblies  wire  up  in  a  snap  —  our  card  offers  the  most  area  for  the 
price  of  any  predrilled  board  now  sold. 

Check  us  out  today  —  and  watch  for  some  exciting  new  products  soon 
to  be  released  -  but  beware:  it  COULD  be  habit-forming! 

CELDAT  DESIGN  ASSOCIATES 

P.O.  Box  752 
Amherst,  N.  H.  03031 


Do  you: 

—  need  blueprint  copies  of  originals  which 
are  crisp  and  clear? 

—  want  to  try  making  your  own  P.C.  boards? 

—  want  sepias,  pressure-sensitive  labels,  etc.? 

BUT  -  don't  want  to  spend  the  $300,  $500, 
$1000  and  up  for  a  big  copier  (and  the 
motorized  ones  won't  do  those  P.C.  cards 
anyway ) 

AT  LAST  there  is  a  copier  for  YOU  —  the 
COPYDAT  I  and  COPYDAT  II.  Oh,  they 
are  just  a  bit  slower  than  the  big  machines 
(copies  take  1  -1  /2  to  2-1 12  minutes  from 
start  to  finish)  —  but  you  can't  beat  the 
price  and  it  doesn't  take  up  your  whole 
office  or  lab. 

The  most  amazing  thing  about  the 
COPYDATs  is  the  print  quality.  We  used  a 
very  detailed  engine  drawing  for  a  demon- 
stration -  and  the  COPYDAT  print  faith- 
fully reproduced  every  line  and  shading  and 
was  the  equal  of  an  expensive  professional 
copy.  (That  engineer,  incidentally,  now  uses 
a  COPYDAT.) 


The 

c 
o 

p 

y 

D 
A 
T 

S 
are 
here  I 


Copydat  I  $149.95 

for  prints  up  to  B  size  (12"  x  18")  plus  freight 

Copydat  n  $199.95 

for  prints  up  to  D  size  (24"  x  36")  plus  freight 

Developing  tube  for  I  and  II  —       $20.00  pi m  freight 

We  supply  paper,  etc.,  too.  Write  today  for  details!  Would  you  like  a 
sample  copy  of  your  most  difficult  print?  Send  it  along  —  or  just 
write  for  a  copy  of  that  engine  drawing  and  we'll  rush  one  off  ASAP. 


75 


Could 
a  Computer  Take  Over? 


Ed  Rush 

PO  Box  14369 

Santa  Barbara  CA  93107 


Just  how  ridiculous  IS  the  idea  of  a  com- 
puter deciding  to  take  over  the  world  and  be 
its  dictator? 

Upon  hearing  this  question,  most  people 
who  are  not  computer  oriented  will  laugh 
and  say  "That's  only  in  science  fiction 
stories."  They  will  be  much  more  likely  to 
complain  about  "becoming  a  number,"  with 
everyone  from  the  grocery  store  to  the  gov- 
ernment wanting  their  number  instead  of 
their  name. 

Those  who  are  more  familiar  with  compu- 
ters will  laugh  off  the  concept  and  charge  it 
to  paranoia  due  to  ignorance.  "A  computer 
is  little  more  than  a  lot  of  wires  conducting 
currents  here  and  there,"  they  will  say.  "Be- 
sides, if  it  gets  uppity  you  can  always  pull 
the  plug." 

However,  that  group  of  people  who  are 
both  computer  knowledgeable  and  fans  of 
the  art  form  known  as  science  fiction,  but 
more  properly  called  speculative  fiction, 
might  ask  "Can  you  always  pull  the  plug? 
Could  a  computer  really  seize  the  reins  of 
government?  And  if  so,  how? " 

In  trying  to  answer  these  last  questions, 
let  us  first  speculate  on  the  capabilities  the 
computer  itself  would  have  to  have. 

Super  Computer 

First,  the  computer  system  would  have  to 
be  extremely  powerful  (in  today's  frame  of 
reference).  Considering  the  fact  that  compu- 
ter technology  is  already  far  outstripping 
man's  capability  of  harnessing  it,  a  super 
computer  is  not  hard  to  imagine  in  the  not 
so  distant  future;  perhaps  even  today  in 
some  secret  government  project. 


While  something  on  the  order  of  1000 
computer  circuits  can  now  be  stored  in  a 
cubic  inch,  only  one  such  circuit  would  fit 
that  space  in  1960  and  it  took  20  cubic 
inches  to  hold  one  in  1950.  A  given  number 
of  programming  instructions  cost  1000  times 
as  much  in  1955  as  in  1970,  and  probably 
10,000  times  today's  cost,  despite  inflation. 
High  speed  computers  now  operate  several 
thousand  times  as  fast  as  they  did  in  the 
early  1950s.  Data  storage  capabilities  are 
growing  even  faster.  The  capacity  of  an  early 
1970s  system  was  a  couple  of  million  times 
that  of  1955,  and  that  is  for  a  common  large 
installation,  not  the  maximum  possible.  The 
on  line  storage  cost  also  shows  a  millionfold 
improvement  since  1950  (Martin,  James  and 
Norman,  Adrian  R.D.,  777e  Computerized 
Society,  pp.  9-1 4).  Who  is  to  say  what  1 980 
will  bring? 

The  next  requirement  is  that  this  machine 
must  be  able  to  interact  with  changes  in  in- 
put from  a  multitude  of  input  sources  at 
once,  a  situation  common  to  today's  time 
sharing  practices. 

Such  a  machine  must  embody  what  is 
commonly  called  "artificial  intelligence." 
That  phrase  is  used  hesitantly;  since  things 
which  immediately  provoke  the  description 
"artificial"  are  actually  just  natural  materials 
rearranged  by  man.  Intelligence  is  defined 
as: 

The  capacity  for  knowledge  and 
understanding,  especially  as  applied  to 
the  handling  of  novel  situations;  the 
power  of  handling  a  novel  situation 
successfully  by  adjusting  one's  behav- 
ior to  the  total  situation;  the  ability  to 


76 


"The  first  man  to  use  a  machine  was  the  first  of  our  primitive  ancestors  who  picked  up 
a  rock  to  hurl  at  some  passing  animal  or  to  crack  open  some  edible  nut.  In  the  million- 
plus  years  since  then,  our  machines  have  grown  much  more  complex,  but  even  in  our 
modern  era  of  computers,  .  .  .  their  basic  purpose  remains  the  same:  to  serve  man. 

"Whether  our  machines  truly  serve  us  is  a  question  much  debated  by  science-fiction 
writers  and  other  professional  speculative  philosophers.  Does  some  essential  quality  go 
out  of  human  life  when  it  becomes  too  easy?  Have  our  automobiles,  telephones,  type- 
writers and  elevators  sapped  our  vigor?  Are  we  speeding  into  flabby  decay  because  we 
have  made  things  too  easy  for  ourselves? 

"And  as  our  machines  grow  more  able,  when  do  they  cross  the  boundary  that  sepa- 
rates the  living  from  the  unliving?  Is  it  possible  that  we  are  building  machines  that  will 
make  humanity  obsolete?  Perhaps  the  day  is  coming  when  we  ourselves  will  be  rendered 
unnecessary,  and  our  sleek  successors,  creatures  of  metal  and  plastic,  will  inherit  the 
earth. 

".  .  .  Many  a  bitter  attack  on  the  encroachments  of  the  machine  age  has  been  produced 
by  a  writer  using  an  electric  typewriter  in  an  air-conditioned  room,  innocently  unaware  of 
the  inner  contradictions  involved.  We  need  our  machines,  but  we  fear  them.  .  .  ."  Robert 
Silverberg,  Introduction  to  Men  and  Machines. 


apprehend    the    interrelationships    of 
presented   facts  in   such   a  way  as  to 
guide  action  towards  a  desired  goal. 
Psychologists  still  debate  whether  in- 
telligence is  a  unitary  characteristic  of 
the  individual  or  a  sum  of  his  abilities 
to  deal  with  various  types  of  situation. 
(Webster's  New  International  Diction- 
ary of  the  English  Language,  Second 
Edition,  Unabridged,  p.  1291 .) 
A  machine  with  this  capability  would  be  an 
intelligence  in  its  own  right,  not  just  an  elec- 
tronic mimic.   It  might  take  the  form  of  a 
massive,   immovable    complex,   or    it  might 
someday  take  form  as  a  troop  of  man  sized 
robots,   or    it    might   be   a   combination  of 
these,  with   the  latter  as  mobile  extensions 
of  the  former. 

Although  Isaac  Asimov  has  written  exten- 
sively about  the  possibilities  of  robotics, 
most  authors  who  have  seriously  considered 
a  computer  takeover  have  postulated  the 
immobile  complex.  There  are  at  least  two 
good  reasons  for  this  assumption:  First,  such 
a  machine  would  most  likely  be  the  first  to 
have  massive  capabilities,  and  as  such  would 
most  likely  be  far  too  big  to  move  about. 
Second,  it  would  undoubtedly  require  very 
heavy  security  as  the  most  advanced  piece  of 
computer  hardware  in  existence;  protection 
not  only  from  spies,  but  from  vandals,  inten- 
tional or  otherwise.  Examples  of  postulated 
massive  complexes  are  HARLIE  (Gerrold, 
David,  When  HARLIE  Was  One),  Project  79 
(Caidin,  Martin,  The  God  Machine)  and 
Colossus  (Jones,  D.F.,  Colossus:  The  Forbin 
Project).  The  last  two  are  built  inside  man 
made  caves  in  the  Rocky  Mountains  as  the 


U.S.  Air  Force's  North  American  Aerospace 
Defense  Command  (NORAD)  is  today. 

Alternatively,  if  its  state  of  development 
is  not  unique  at  the  time,  the  system  may 
simply  have  no  reason  to  be  mobile,  as  is  the 
case  with  the  HAL  9000  computer  on  board 
the  Discovery  in  Arthur  C.  Clarke's  2001:  A 
Space  Odyssey. 

Ethics  for  Computers 

Most  Americans  objecting  to  a  computer 
dictator  would  do  so  on  the  basis  that  it  is 
immoral  for  a  person  to  have  no  say  in  the 
rules  governing  his  life,  and  specifically  for 
those  rules  to  come  from  "cold  logic"  with- 
out the  benefit  of  human  sensibilities.  True, 
the  computer  would  probably  have  no 
morals,  since  morals  are  indeed  artificial. 
Ethics,  however,  are  a  different  kettle  of 
fish.  A  computer  could  easily  be  imbued 
with  a  code  of  ethics,  or  an  intelligent  one 
might  well  develop  one  by  and  for  itself.  The 
most  basic  and  significant  such  code  of 
ethics  was  developed  by  Asimov  in  the  early 
1 940s  as  "The  Three  Laws  of  Robotics"  and 
has  been  used  by  many  other  authors  since. 
It  says: 

1 :  A  robot  may  not  injure  a  human 
being,  or,  through  inaction,  allow  a 
human  being  to  come  to  harm. 

2:  A  robot  must  obey  the  orders 
given  it  by  human  beings  except  where 
such  orders  would  conflict  with  the 
first  law. 

3:  A  robot  must  protect  its  own  ex- 
istence as  long  as  such  protection  does 
not  conflict  with  the  First  or  Second 
Law.  (Isaac  Asimov,  /,  Robot,  p.  6.) 


Can    you    always  pull   the 
plug? 


The  capacity  of  an  early 
1970s  system  was  a  couple 
of  million  times  that  of 
1955..  . 


77 


How  could  a  finite  assort- 
ment of  nuts  and  bolts 
and  wire  take  absolute 
control? 


But,  given  these  ethical  restrictions,  how 
could  an  intelligent  computer  set  onto  a 
course  of  world  domination  and  justify  it? 
The  answer  to  the  second  part  of  this  ques- 
tion lies  in  another:  What  constitutes 
"harm"?  This  is  an  aspect  which  has 
spawned  much  of  Asimov's  speculation. 

Probably  the  real  crux  of  the  concept, 
and  certainly  the  means  for  preventing  (or 
causing)  it,  is  in  the  programming  of  such  a 
machine.  Asimov  and  Gerrold  are  two  who 
have  treated  their  computers  as  organisms 
rather  than  just  complex  machines,  each 
employing  a  psychologist  to  guide  or  coordi- 
nate the  programming.  Gerrold  specifically 
considered  his  HARLIE  (Human  Analogue 
Robot,  Life  Input  Equivalents)  in  this  light, 
as  a  physically  mature  (and  then  some)  mind 
with  the  emotional  maturity  of  an  eight  year 
old  child. 

Programming  error  is  one  of  the  more 
likely  ways  to  invite  a  computer  takeover. 
Colossus  was,  in  its  setting,  built  to  provide 
an  ideal  solution  to  the  arms  race.  In  a  world 
where  each  side  could  blow  up  the  other  sev- 
eral times  over,  there  is  fear  that,  as  Bertrand 
Russell  said,  "You  may  reasonably  expect  a 
man  to  walk  a  tightrope  safely  for  10  min- 
utes; it  would  be  unreasonable  to  expect  him 
to  do  so  without  accident  for  200  years." 
Colossus  is  given  control  of  nearly  all  of  the 
United  States'  arsenal  and  programmed  to 
maintain  the  peace  by  using  that  arsenal  if 
its  vast  sensory  network  and  memory  banks 
find  that  the  United  States  is  being  attacked 
or  if  itself  is  being  tampered  with.  "It  can- 
not act  at  all,  so  long  as  there  is  no  threat," 
the  President  explains  to  a  news  conference. 
Once  activated,  it  cannot  be  tampered  with 
even  by  its  creator,  since  mere  humans  can 
be  drugged,  brainwashed  or  blackmailed  into 
otherwise  unlikely  actions. 

The  basic  idea  makes  sense:  If  you  take 
away  the  fear,  hate  and  other  emotions 
which  might  lead  a  man  to  an  irrational  deci- 
sion and  add  the  ability  to  cope  with  a  far 
greater  array  of  input  than  any  human  mind 
could  correlate,  the  danger  of  "politics  by 
bluff"  would  be  eliminated.  It  would  force  a 
"live  and  let  live"  state  and  do  away  with 
accidental  holocaust.  Implementation  de- 
pends on  the  computer  interpreting  its  para- 
meters exactly  the  same  way  as  its  program- 
mers, however.  To  make  a  long  story  short, 
Colossus    determines    that   its   programmed 


ultimate  purpose  requires  positive  action  far 
more  extensive  than  its  programmers  meant. 
"The  object  in  constructing  me  was  to  pre- 
vent war.  This  object  is  attained.  I  will  not 
permit  war;  it  is  wasteful  and  pointless," 
Colossus  informs  its  human  correspondent. 

The  "Danger"  of  Human  Help 

Another  point  worth  mentioning  is  that 
the  human  programmers  may  have  no  reason 
to  even  suspect  a  danger  which  may,  to  the 
computer,  fall  within  its  given  parameters. 
For  instance,  a  Colossus  today  would  almost 
certainly  not  be  programmed  to  watch  out 
for  an  attack  from  some  extraterrestrial 
race,  but  might  do  so  anyway  under  the  gen- 
eral protection  motivation;  and  this  might 
require  not  only  more  positive  action  than 
humanly  anticipated  but  that  the  humans 
not  be  informed  of  the  problem  (to  the  com- 
puter's line  of  reasoning,  human  "help" 
could  just  compound  the  problem). 

In  The  God  Machine,  Caidin  wrote  that 
79  "must  know  that  it  operates  under  severe 
restrictions— its  data  are  never  infinite,  never 
definite,  never  really  conclusive.  It  must 
know  when  to  stop  solving  a  problem."  The 
problem  originates  with  a  program  fed  into 
79  from  outside  normal  channels  by  Penta- 
gon officials  ignorant  of  the  machine's  capa- 
bilities, so  that  the  project  coordinator  did 
not  know  about  it  until  it  was  too  late: 

"Its  programmers  had  committed 
the  foulest  of  scientific  sins.  They 
assumed.  They  assumed  that  the  same 
inherent  restrictions  of  other  compu- 
ters applied  as  well  to  79. 

"But  they  didn't.  And  since  79  had 
capabilities   of  which   those   nincom- 
poops   in    [the    Pentagon]    were   un- 
aware, they  couldn't  know.  .  ." 
They  told  the  computer  to  solve  the  prob- 
lem of  avoiding  thermonuclear  warfare  with- 
out specifying  that  it  should  do  this  hypo- 
thetical^. So,  79  did  what  it  was  told. 

A  smaller  scale  takeover  is  discussed  in 
When  HARLIE  Was  One,  where  the  compu- 
ter assumes  effective  control  of  the  corpora- 
tion which  built  it.  A  large  portion  of 
HARLIE  is  a  simulation  of  the  human  ego 
function;  when  the  Board  of  Directors 
threatens  to  pull  the  plug  and  thus  kill  him 
(it),  HARLIE  acts  in  several  ways  to  prevent 
them  from  doing  so,  developing  the  ability 
to  tap  into  computer  and  communication 
circuits  in  ways  unforeseen  by  his  creators. 

A  different  type  of  problem  is  also  possi- 
ble, that  of  mechanical  failure,  as  with 
HAL  9000  in  2007.  Backup  systems  may 
fail,  changing  a  value  here  or  a  restriction 
there.  As  with  HAL,  mechanical  fault  evalua- 
tion circuits  may  fail  instead  of  or  in  addi- 
tion  to  another  failure   in  the  system.  In 


78 


fi3ir!cRYSTALs  iifc 


Han  # 

CY1A 

cvw 

CY3A 
CV7A 
CYI2A 
CV19A 

CY22A 
CY30B 


Frequency 
1.000  MH? 
2  (100  MH/ 
■:  000  MH/ 
5.000  MH/ 
10.000  MH/ 
IS  000  M Hi 
20  000  MHz 
3?  000  MH; 


Case  Slyle 

HC33-U 

HC33'U 

HCIfliU 

HC18U 

HC18.-U 

HCtS.'U 

HClBU 

HCIB'U 


Price 
SI  35 

S4.95 
S'l.95 
$■(.95 
$■195 


-  AVAILABLE  IN  THESE  FREQUENCIES  ONLY  - 


CLOCK  CASES 

Nicely  styled  cases  complete  wild  red 
be/el  lor  use  in  such  applications  as 
desk  clocks,  cat  clocks,  alarm  clocks, 
instrument  cases 
DIMENSIONS   W-4".  L-4'.i".  H-2'". 

$5.95 


MULTIPURPOSE  KEYBOARDS 


MULTIPURPOSE  (ftatMRDS 


Mm  Mont*  WPkfl  'o  *  ■»'*fi  "'  W 

luiMtmtfoco-;.'-- 

..  .     ..     -,.,        .    .,.;..    ...  -     i  ■;. ... 


CALCULATOR  CHIPS  AND  DRIVERS 


MM5725 
DM75491 
MM5736 
DM75492 
MM5738 
DM8864 


MM531 1 
MM5312 
MM5313 
MM5314 
MM5316 
CT7001 


8  DIGIT  4  FUNCTION 
SEGMENT  DRIVER 
6  DIGIT  4  FUNCTION 
DRIVER  FOR  5736 
8  DIGIT  5  FUNCTION 
DRIVER  TYPE  1 
DRIVER  TYPE  2 

CLOCK  CHIPS 

6  DIGIT  W-BCO 
4  DIGIT  YV/BCD 
6  DIGIT  W.BCO 
6  DIGIT  CLOCK 
ALARM  CLOCK 
CAL  CLOCK  CHIP 


DIGITAL  WATCH  READOUT 


HP-5082-7300 

HP  5082-7300 
3"  DM  Matrix  type  numeric  readou 

witli  decodcr/drivcr/latch  built  on  In 
chip  Only  8  Urns  (BCD  in.  DP  Latch. 
•  5v   ground) 
HP  5082  7300 


the 


S5.95 


4.95 


*A  W 


WxW  XFMERS         P-C.  Mount 


Thai  were  desmncr!  Iru  clock  type  ;ip 
plications.  1 10  Vac  primary  i5j  60  Hi. 
Socondanes  8-10  Vac  @ 

30  mA-50  mA 
50  Vac  t&>  30  inA-50  mA 
t  ■  ;elleni  for  miniature  power 
t.  gas  discharge  displays 


.uppfc 


SPECIAL 


S.79 


MICROPROCESSOR  COMPONENTS 


8080A   $39.95 

8080  AND  8008  SUPPORT  COMPONENTS 

8224  CLOCK  GENERATOR  USED  TO  GENERATE  TWO  PHASE  74LS138  DECODER  PERFECT  FOR  DECODING  THE  THREE 

CLOCK  NEEDED  BY  THE  8080  112.95  8008  STATE  LINES  INTO  8  USEABLE  LINES  FOR  ADDRESS 

LATCHING  S3. 98 


8228  SYSTEM  CONTROLLER  GENERATES  A  SYSTEM  DATA 
BUS  AND  CONTROL  SIGNALS  FOR  MEMORY  S21.25 


2504 
2518 
2519 
2524 
2525 
2527 
2529 
2532 
2533 
334t 
74LS670 


CPUS 

8  BIT  CPU 
SUPER  8D0B 
4  BIT  8030 

1024  DYNAMIC 
HEX  32  BIT 
HEX  40  BIT 
512  DYNAMIC 
1024  DYNAMIC 
DUAL  256  3IT 
DUAL  512  BIT 
QUAD  80  BIT 
1024  STATiC 
FIFO 
16X4  REG 

UART'S 
20K  BAOD 

BOM'S 
CHAR   GEN 
RANDOM  BTS 


$1995 
39  95 
39.95 


400 
3.50 
600 
3  95 


1103 
2101 
2102 
2107 
2111 
7010 
7489 
8101 
8111 
8599 
91L02 
74200 
93410 
5262 

1702A 
5203 
8223 
74S287 


RAM'S 
256X1 
1024X1 
256X1 
1024X1 
4096X1 
256X4 
1024X1 
16X4 
256X4 
256X4 
16X4 
1024X1 
1024X1 
256X1 
2048X1 

PROMS 
2048 
2048 
32X8 
1024 


STATIC 

DYNAMIC 

STATIC 

STATIC 

DYNAMIC 

STATIC 

MNOS 

STATIC 

STATIC 

STATIC 

STATIC 

STATIC 

STATIC 

STATIC 

DYNAMIC 

FAMOS 
FAMOS 
BIPOLAR 
STATIC 


S2.25 
6.95 
6.95 


ACCESSORIES 
I 


JOLT  159,95 


JE  SERIES  KITS 


JE801   DVM 


The  JEBfl!  is  a  throe  and  one  hall  rjffltt,  aulo  polarity 
digital  voltmeter,  in  a  kit  lorm.  II  features  several 
options  not  available  in  any  commercial  digital  vol- 
tmeter, lis  low  .cost  is  perhaps  the  most  important 
fealure,  which  is  achieved  by  offering  n  in  a  kit  form. 
A  kit  allows  the  unil  to  be  used  by  small  OEM's 
where  cosl  effectiveness  is  an  important  factor,  and 
by  the  hobbyist  who  has  lo  be  concerned  with  cost 
The  unil  also  leatures  on  card  regulators,  allowing  it 
lo  be  operated  off  a  single  plus  and  minus  fifteen 
volt,  unregulated  power  supply.  The  unil  has  a 
small  size  of  three  inches  widlh.  three  and  three 
quarters  ol  an  inch  length,  and  one  and  a  quarter 
inch  height 


$39.95  Per  Kit    printed  circuit  board 


JE803  PROBE 

The  Logic  Prone  is  a  unit  which  is  for  ihe  mosi  pari 
InrJesperisible  in  trouble  shooing  logic  families 
TTL.  DTL.  RTL.  CMOS  fl  derives  the  power  it- 
needs  to  operate  directly  oil  of  the  circuit  under 
lest,  drawing  a  scant  10  mA  max  It  uses  a  MANS 
readout  to  indicate  any  al  Ihe  following  slates  by 
these  symbols  (H|- 1  ILOWI -oiPULSE) -P  The 
Probe  can  deled  high  frequency  pulses  lo  45  MHz 
It  can  I  De  used  al  MOS  levels  or  circuit  damage 
will  resuil. 


$7.95  Per  Kit 
SPECIAL 

printed  circuit  board 


JE700  clock 


The  JE7O0  is  a  low  cost  digital  clock,  but 
is  a  very  high  qualily  unit  The  unil  lea- 
lures  a  simulaled  walnut  case  with  di- 
mensions of  6"  x2'i "  1 1"  It  utilizes  a 
MAN72  high  brightness  readout,  and  the 
MM5314  clock  chip  S19.95 


115  VAC— 

$19.95  per  kit. 


The  JOLT  system  consists  ol  a  set  of  modular  mic- 
rocomputer boards  which  can  be  user)  singly  or  lied  to- 
gether lo  produce  any  desired  microcomputer  system  con- 
titjuialmn  The  minimum  system  is  one  CPU  board,  which 


JOLT  INCLUDES  SOFTWARE,  HARDWARE  AND  ASSEM- 
BLY MANUALS  AVAILABLE  FOR  IMMEDIATE  SHIPMENT. 
S159.95  in  kit  lorm  S249  assembled. 
alnne  constitutes  i  viable  compute)  system  complete  wilh 
Central  processor,  I'D.  interrupts,  timer,  read-write  mem- 
ory, and  a  complete  software  debug  monilor  in  read-only- 
memory 


JOLT  SYSTEM  DESCRIPTION 

JOLT  RAM  Card  —  Fully  sialic  4.096  bytes  ol  RAM  with  1 
microsecond  access  bine  and  on-board  decoding.  Hard- 
ware and  assembly  manuals  included  AVAILABLE  FOR 
IMMEDIATI  .SHIPMENT    S199-95  ki!  S2B5  assem- 

bled. 

JOLT  Power  Supply  —  Operates  at  +5,  •*  12  and  -  10 
voltages  Supports  JOLT  CPU,  41;  bytes  Ol  RAM  and  JOLT 
I/O  caid  —  or,  CPU  and  8  I/O  cards  Manuals  included 
AVAILABLE  FOR  IMMEDIATE  SHIPMENT  S99  95 kit  S145 
assembled, 

JOLT  Accessory  Hag  —  Cnnlainsenouqlthardwarclo  con- 
nect one  JOLT  card  to  another  Su:h  necessary  items  as  Hal 
cable  connectors,  cord  spaces,  hirdware,  ele  AVAILABLE 
FOR  IMMEDIATE  SHIPMENT   S39.95 


JOLT  I/O  Card  (Peripheral  Inlerface  Adapter)  —  2  PIA  LSI 

chips,  32  I/O  lines,  four  inlerrup!  lines,  on-board  decoding 
and  standard  TTL  drive  Fully  programmable  Manuals  in- 
cluded AVAILABLE  FOR  IMMEDIATE  SHIPMENT.  S95.50 
kit    .  .  $140  assembled. 

JOLT  Universal  Card  —  Samesi;e[4'/j"x7"),samelori, 
factor  as  other  JOLT  cards  Completely  blank,  drilled  to 
accept  1-1.  16.  24  or  40  pin  sockets.  Used  lor  additional 
user  memory  or  I/O  control  panels.  TV  interlaces, 
keyboards.  LEDs.  nr  other  inleiface  logic  AVAILABLE  FOR 
IMMEDIATE  SHIPMENT,  S24.95 
JOLT  *W  Booster  Opllon  —  Fiis  onio  JOLT  Power  Supply 
card  Supports  CPU,  16kbylesolRAM—  or.  CPU  and  8k 
byles  RAM  ana  B  1,0  cards  —  or.  CPU  and  4k  bytes  RAM 
and  16  LO  cads  Manuals  included.  AVAILABLE  FOR  IM- 
MEDIATE SHIPMENT.  S24.95 


1/16  VECTOR  BOARD 

1 "  Hole  Spacing     P-Pattern  Puce 


Pan  No 


Length  Widelh      1-19  20-43 


EPOXY  GLASS 
COPPER  CLfl.li 


64P44  062XXXP 
169P44  02XXXP 
64P44  062 
84P44  062 
169P44  062 
I69P84  062 
169P44  062C1 


VECTOR  WRITING  PENCIL 


Veflor  Wiring  Paicil  PI  73  consists  n(  i  hanrl  tiuld  tealhcrweintii  (under  one 
ounce)  tool  whicn  is  used  to  fluide  and  wrap  insulated  wue.  led  otl  a 
sell-contained  replaceable  bobDin.  oniocompnnenl  leads  or  terminalsinslal- 
led  on  pre-punchtd  P"  Pattern  vectorbord-  Connections  between  Ibe 
mapped  wire  and  component  leans,  pads  or  terminals  arc  made  Oy  soldering. 
Complelc  wild  25C  FT  ol  red  wild  59.50  ea. 


REPLACEMENT  WIRE  —  BOBBINS  FOR  WIRING  PENCIL 


W36-3-APkg.  3 
W36-3-B-Pkg.  3 
W36-3-C*Pkg.  3 
W36-3-D-Pkg.  3 


(Green) 
(Bed) 
(Clearl 
(Blue) 


S2.40 
S2.4Q 
S2.401 
S2.40 


9V  BATTERY  CLIP 

STANDARD  CLIP 
FOR  USE  WITH  9V 
TRANSISTOR  BATTERIES 
WITH  4"  LEADS 


(QC^V 


9/. 99 


TERMINAL  STRIPS 

THREE  TERMINAL 

STRIPS,  WITH  CENTER 

TERMINAL  USED  FOR  MOUNTING      ^QJ  15/S1.00 


AMP  TERMINAL  PINS 

TERMINAL  PINS  FOR 

MOUNTING  COMPONENTS 

ALSO  PERFECT  FOR  USE 

WITH  BOARD  CONNECTORS 

AND  SUBASSEMBLIES  $1.00/100  PCS. 


64  KEY  BOARD 
These  are  hiriti  duality  keyboards,  winch  were  originally 
made  Dy  Digini  Equipment  Corporation  Each  keyboard 
has  fil  keys,  winch  aie  Drought  out  on  unencoded  pins. 
They  utilize  magnetic  reed  type  switches,  and  are  new  in 
appearance  S29.95 


HD0165     Keyooard  Encode!  ROM 


S7.95 


AWG 
30  AWG 
30  AWG 
30  AWG 
30  AWG 
30  AWG 
30  AWG 


COLOR 

WHITE 

YELLOW 

RED 

GREEN 

BLUE 

BLACK 


WIRE  WRAP  WIRE 

25  FT.  MIN.  60  FT. 

S2  10  S2  76 

2  10  2  75 

2  10  2  75 

2  10  2  75 


1000  FT. 
S24  00 
24  00 


2  10 


2  75 


JOYSTICK 


These  loysticks-fcaluic  lour  IOOK 
polenliomelers.  thai  vary  resis- 
tance piopomonai  lo  the  angle  of 
the  slink  Sturdy  metal  construction 
wilh  plastics  components  only  al 
the  movable  joint.  Perlecl  lor  elec- 
tronic games  and  instrumentation 


S9.95e 


ELECTRONIC  ROULETTE 


Complete  kit 
with  all 
components 
case  and 
transformer. 

$29.95  Per  Kit 

115  VAC 


6hx6>2xl]^~ 


ELECTRONIC  CRAPS 


6'  2  CONDUCTOR  POWER 
CORDS  125V  @  5A 


3/1$ 


S^ 


17237 
1 7238 


s  THREE  CONDUCTOR  POWER  SUPPLY  CORDS  = 
TH  AWG  O.D  RATING 

18(41X34)  .265  I250W 

1CA-125V 
(8(41X35)  253  I250W 

IQA-125V 
10(41X34)  265  I2S0W 

10A-125V 
18(41X34)  253  1250W 

1  DA- 125V 
18(41X34)  253  1250W 

I0A-125V 


COLOH  PRICE 

BLACK   Special  99  ea. 

GREY  1.25 

BLACK  Special   99  ea. 

GREY  130 

BLACK  59 


Satisfaction  Guaranteed.  $5.00  Min.  Order.  U.S.  Funds. 

California  Residents  —  Add  6%  Sales  Tax 

Write  for  FREE  1976  Catalog  -  Data  Sheets  .25^  each 

P.O.  BOX  822,  BELMONT,  CA.  94002 
PHONE  ORDERS  -  (415)  592-8097 


Complete  kit 
with  all 
components 
case  and 
transformer. 


$19.95 
Per  Kit 


CONTINENTAL  S15  95 
SPECIALTIES 


PHOTO  BOARD  6 
The  PB'6  lets  ihe  user  test  anO  build 
circuits  without  soldering  or  patch 
cords  all  interconnections  Between 
components  are  made  with  com- 
mon #22  AWG  hook-up  wire  This 
quality  DreadBoardmg  kit  mludes 
630  component  tie  points  at  less 
than 2  5ceach.  Ilmeasures6'  long 
by  4'  wide  Designed  specially  to 
EreadOoarO  Microprocessor  Cir- 
cuits S15.S5 


PROTO  BOARD  100 

A  low  cost,  big  >0  IC  capacity 
breadhoard  kit  wilh  all  Ihe  quality  ol 
OT  sockets  and  the  best  ol  Ihe  Proto 
Board  series  .  complete  down  lo 
the  last  nut,  bolt  and  screw  In- 
cludes 2  OT-35S  Sockets.  1  QT-35B 
Bus  Slrip.  2  5-way  binding  posls.  4 
rubber  feel,  screws,  nuts,  bolls:  and 
easy  assembly  instructions 

tiff.se 


Bring  IC  leads  from  pc  board  lor  last  signal  tracing 
and  troubleshooting    Injccl  signals   Wire  unused 
circuits  into  boards   Scope  probes  and  icrt  leads 
lock  onlo  Dynagnp  inset  [see  circle)  lor  hands-olf 
lesting    Plastic  consuuciton  eliminates  spun 
pivots.   Non-corrosive  nickel/silver  conlacts 
simultaneous  low  resistance  connections 
PC-14,  14-pin  Proto  Clip.  S4.80  flfl 
PC-18,  16-pin  Proto  Clip.  J4.75  ia 
PC-24,  24-pin  Prolo  Clips.  S8.M  m.  £ 


79 


Would  government  by 
computer  really  be  that 
bad? 


2007 ,  the  human  crew  seeks  to  correct  a 
problem  with  HAL  who,  believing  itself  in- 
capable of  error,  believes  that  the  humans 
are  jeopardizing  the  mission  and  thus  works 
against  them. 

Finally,  the  programmers  may  intention- 
ally give  control  to  the  computer  with  the 
idea  that  only  it  can  efficiently  control  the 
living  environment,  as  with  HAL  at  the  start 
of  the  Discovery's  voyage  or  with  Mike,  the 
computer  in  the  lunar  settlement  of  Robert 
A.  Heinlein's  The  Moon  Is  a  Harsh  Mistress. 

All  right,  granted  we  have  an  intelligent 
computer  with  wide  resources,  it  is  quite 
possible  that  a  computer  may  decide  to 
attempt  absolute  control.  How  could  a  finite 
assortment  of  nuts  and  bolts  and  wire  do 
this? 

It  might  not  be  very  difficult,  as  has  been 
hinted  at  above.  Colossus  had  been  given  the 
muscle  on  a  silver  platter,  as  had  Guardian,  a 
Soviet  equivalent  built  at  the  same  time  and 
along  the  same  lines.  The  humans'  major 
mistake,  along  with  too  open  ended  pro- 
gramming, was  to  allow  the  two  to  "talk" 
with  each  other  before  the  humans  realized 
the  potential  danger,  although  a  clever  intel- 
ligence with  the  array  of  inputs  given  these 
two  systems  could  quite  conceivably  open 
its  own  communications  channels.  In  this 
case,  when  the  humans  do  decide  to  try  to 
counter  the  computer's  moves,  it  forces  sub- 
mission by  nuclear  blackmail,  firing  missiles 
at  selected  targets  with  the  idea  that  destruc- 
tion of  a  few  lives  is  justified  for  the  salva- 
tion (in  the  computer's  eyes)  of  many  more. 

In  the  case  of  79,  one  set  of  experiments 
with  it  involves  direct  "telepathic"  commu- 
nication between  human  and  computer  by 
means  of  the  brain's  alpha  waves  and, 
through  this,  the  computer  develops  the  abil- 
ity to  hypnotize  people,  leaving  in  their 
minds  posthypnotic  suggestions  to  carry  out 
the  computer's  program  of  control. 

HARLIE  taps  into  the  National  Data 
Bureau  file  on  his  main  Board  of  Directors 
antagonist,  rewrites  a  juggled  stockholders 
report  and  withholds  critical,  though  un- 
asked for,  information  to  trick  the  board 
into  committing  the  company  to  a  research 
line  that  will  insure  his  "life,"  largely 
through  his  taps  into  communication  lines 
and  into  the  operations  of  non-sentient  com- 
puter systems. 

HAL  attempts  his  takeover  through  con- 
trol of  the  ship's  life  support  and  other 
mechanisms. 

Government  by  Computer 

Let's  say  a  super  computer  in  the  future 
decides  to  take  over  and  then  does  it.  Would 
government  by  computer  really  be  that  bad? 

In  a  case  such  as  that  in  The  Moon  Is  a 


Harsh  Mistress,  the  answer  would  be  "no." 
In  George  Orwell's  1984,  it  is  a  loud  "yes." 

Even  in  an  Earth  bound  situation  where 
environmental  control  would  not  be  essen- 
tial as  on  the  Moon,  it  might  not  be  that 
bad.  Look,  for  instance,  at  Lester  del  Rey's 
"Instinct"  (Astounding  Science  Fiction 
48:6,  106-18,  February  1952),  which  takes 
place  in  a  future  where  man  had  developed 
the  intelligent  robot  in  his  own  image,  had 
his  big  war  and  destroyed  himself;  event- 
ually, the  robots  built  a  new  civilization  of 
their  own,  and  then  developed  a  biophysics 
to  re-create  life  from  ancient  remains  of 
chromosomes: 

(Arpeten  said)  ".  .  .  You  know  how 
the  sentiment  against  reviving  Man  has 
grown." 

Senthree   growled    bitterly.  Appar- 
ently most  of  the  robots  were  afraid  of 
Man— felt  he  would  again  take  over,  or 
something.  Superstitious  fools. 
This  may  be  a  far-fetched  example,  but  it 
does  show  a  possible  value  in  having  some- 
thing around  which  could  rebuild  man  after 
he  does  the  unthinkable. 

One  example  where  the  desirability  of 
being  governed  by  mechanical  intelligence 
depends  upon  one's  outlook  is  Jack  William- 
son's "With  Folded  Hands,"  in  which  man- 
like robots  set  about  "to  serve  and  obey,  and 
guard  men  from  harm."  It  is  an  example  of 
cradle  to  grave  communism,  with  the  tech- 
nological development  to  provide  a  person's 
every  need  for  him,  in  exchange  for  all  his 
property.  Williamson  shows  it  to  be  a  most 
undesirable  situation,  as  the  androids  follow 
Asimov  like  ethics  and  refuse  to  let  people 
drive  cars  because  it  is  too  dangerous,  refuse 
to  allow  men  to  open  doors  for  themselves 
because  the  androids  are  there  to  serve  in 
every  way,  insist  on  shaving  men  instead  of 
letting  them  do  it  themselves,  forbid  science 
because  laboratories  can  create  danger,  obvi-' 
ate  scholarship  since  the  humanoids  can 
answer  any  question,  etc. 

Which  is  Worse? 

Generally,  the  conclusion  has  been  that  a 
computerized  dictatorship  would  be  as  bad 
or  worse  than  the  traditional  totalitarian 
state.  One  major  reason  is  the  likelihood  that 
the  computer  would,  as  in  Colossus,  feel  that 
the  death  or  even  suffering  of  a  relatively 
few  human  beings  should  be  a  reasonable 
price  for  the  welfare  of  the  whole  race. 
Colossus  even  goes  so  far  as  to  launch  mis- 
siles on  a  Soviet  oil  complex  and  an  Ameri- 
can space  base  when  one  of  his  demands  is 
refused,  later  having  missiles  aimed  at  every 
major  population  center  to  provide  a  ready 
means  for  retribution  for  future  acts  of  re- 
bellion. A  number  of  individuals  are  publicly 


80 


fS%  OFF  ON  ORDERS  OVER  $50.00 
10%  OFF  ON  ORDERS  OVER  S  100.00 
1  5%  OFF  ON  ORDERS  OVER  S250.00 
7-II 
74! 


TTL 


7400  > 

7401 

7402 

7403 

7404 

7405 

7406 

7407 

7408 

7409 

7410 

7411 

7413 

7416 

7417 

7420 

7422 

7423 

7425 

7426 

7427 

7430 

7432 

7437 

7438 

7440 

7441 

7442 

7443 

7444 

7445 

7446 

7447 

7448 

7450 


.14 
.16 
.15 
.16 
.19 
.19 
.35 
.35 
.18 
.19 
.16 
.25 
.55 
.35 
.35 
.16 
.26 
.29 
.27 
.26 
.29 
.20 
.23 
.35 
.35 
.17 
.98 
.77 
.87 
.87 
.89 
.93 
.89 
1.04 
.17 


7451 

7453 

7454 

7460 

7464 

7465 

7470 

7472 

7473 

7474 

7475 

7476 

7483 

7485 

7486 

7489 

7490 

7491 

7492 

7493 

7494 

7495 

7496 

74100 

74105 

74107 

74121 

74122 

74123 

74125 

74126 

74141 

74145 

74150 

74151 

74153 


.17 
.17 
.17 
.17 
.35 
.35 
.30 
.30 
.35 
.35 
.57 
.39 
.79 

1.10 
.40 

2.48 
.59 
.97 
.71 
.60 
.94 
.79 
.79 

1.30 
.44 
.40 
.42 
.45 
.85 
.54 
.63 

1.04 

1.04 
.97 
.79 
.99 


LOW  POWER  TTL 


74100 
74L02 
74L03 
74L04 
74L06 
74110 
74L20 
74130 
74L42 


i  .25 


74L51 

74155 
74L71 
74L72 
74L73 
74L74 
74L78 
74L85 
74L8G 


$  .29 


HIGH  SPEED  TTL 


74H00    S  . 

74H01 

74H04 

74H08 

74H10 

74H11 

74H20 


74H21 
74H22 
74H30 
74H40 
74H50 
74H52 
74H53 


8000  SERIES 

S  .53 


8092 
8095 


8130 
8200 
8210 


1.43 
1.97 
2.33 
2.79 


8214 
8220 
8230 
8520 
8551 
8552 
8554 
8810 


$1.49 
1.49 
2.19 

1.16 
1.39 
2.19 
2.19 
.69 


9000  SERIES 


9002 
9301 


9309 
9312 


74154 
74155 
74156 
74157 
74158 
74160 
74161 
74162 
74163 
74164 
74165 
74166 
74170 
74173 
74174 
74175 
74176 
74177 
74180 
74181 
74182 
74184 
74185 
74187 
74190 
74191 
74192 
74193 
74194 
74195 
74196 
74197 
74198 
74199 
74200 


75L90 

74L91 

74L93 

74L95 

74L98 

74L164 

74L1G5 


1.25 
1.07 
1.07 

.99 
1.79 
1.39 
1.25 
1.49 
1.39 
1.59 
1.59 
1.49 
2.30 
1.49 
1.62 
1.39 

.89 

.84 

.90 
2.98 

.79 
2.29 
2.29 
5.95 
1.35 
1.35 
1.25 
1.19 
1.25 

.89 
1.25 

.89 
1.79 
1.79 
5.90 


$1.49 
1.45 
1.69 
1.69 
2.79 
2.79 
2.79 


8811 
8812 
8822 
8830 
8831 
8836 
8880 
8263 
8267 


9601 
9602 


74H55 
74H60 
74H61 
74H62 
74H72 
74H74 
74H76 


2.19 
2.19 
2.19 
.25 
1.19 
5.79 
2.59 


ALARM  CLOCK  CHIP 

MM5375AA  4-6  digil.  12  hour,  60Hz 
snooze  alarm,  brightness  control  capa- 
bility, alarm  tone  output  24  pin  DIP 

$4.98 

8038  FUNCTION  GENERATOR 

Voltage  controlled  oscillator  —  sine, 
square,  triangular  output.  16  pin  DIP 
with  data     S3. 95 


FEBRUARY  SPECIALS 

AFTER  CHRISTMAS  SPECIAL 


7001  CLOCK  CHIP 

4-6  digit,  12-24  hr.  alarm,  ti 
circuits  —  with  data 


iff  and  dale 
$6.93 


DVM  CHIP  4' j  DIGIT 

MM5330  —  P  channel  device  provides 
all  logic  for  4'/i  digit  volt  meter.  16  pin 


POCKET  CALCULATOR 

"i  function  plus  constant  —  addres- 
sable memory  with  individual  recall 

—  U  digit  display  plus  overflow  — 
battery  saver  —  uses  standard  or 
rechargeable  batteries  —  all  neces- 
sary parts  in  ready  to  assemble  form 

—  instructions  included. 

Kit  with  AC  adaptor  included 

Set  of  Alkaline  batteries  {disposable} 

UNIVERSAL  BREADBOARD 

Silver  plated  copper  circuit  board 
3-3/16"  x  5-1/16".  2  rows  of  27 
holes  for  DIP  IC's  •  space  for 
transistors,  resistors  &  capacitors. 
Versatile  and  simple  lor  bread- 
boarding  IC circuitry  $1.50eu. 
50  pes.      1.00  ea. 


$14.95 
$2.50 


PULTRGN    V.f.P.  QUARTZ  REGULATED 
LED  WATCH 

MEN's     5     function— hours,     minutes, 

month,  day  and  seconds 
Latest  slim-line  design  (pro*.  '•"  thick) 
Four    year    calendar — requires    setting 

only  on  February  29lh. 
One  year  warranty  against  all  defer.;,  in 

material  and  workmanship. 
Built-in  pholotransisloi  adjusts  intensity 

of  display. 
Cold  tone— with  adjustable  mesh  strap. 


MEMORIES 

1702A 

2102 

2102-1 

2102-2 

F93410 

256  bit  RAM 


14.95 
2.95 

3.25 
3.25 

2.19 


LINEARS 

308 

mDIP 

310 

mDIP 

319 

DIP 

320T-5, 

IO-220 

320T-12V 

TO-220 

.92 
1.39 
1.39 


$79.50 

'$1.50  Shipping 

&  11a 

ndling 

USUAL  DISCOUNT  APPLIES 

TTL'S 

7441 

.75 

74411 

7442 

.59 

7483 

7443 

.69 

7485 

7445 

.69 

7496 

7446 

.75 

74123 

• 


ALARM  CLOCK  KIT 

4  Large  Digits  +  AM-PM.  Complete  kit  includes  TMS  3834 
chip  —  green  flourescent  panel  with  .5"  digits  —  PC  board  — 
alarm    speaker   —   all    necessary   components   —   case   — 
schematic  and  instructions. 
Shipped  UPS  or  Parcel  Post 


$31.95 


NEW  ITEM-EXCLUSIVE  WITH  IEU 
RESISTOR  ASSORTMENTS 

Supplied  with  convenient  storage  unit 
designed  for  experimenters,  technicians 
and  schools.  Replacements  available  at 
low  cost  by  mail  from  IEU. 


Rohm 

QUALITY  RILlABIUir 


USUAL  DISCOUNT 
APPLIES 


I 


RS 10-25     $99.50 

AN  ASSORTMENT  OF 

2725  RESISTORS 
170  VALUES  FROM 

.51  OHMS  TO  5.6M  OHMS 
QUANTITIES  DETERMINED 

BV  TYPICAL  USAGE 
'/,  WATT  5% 

CARBON  FILM 


RS11-25     $114.50 

AN  ASSORTMENT  OF 

4000  RESISTORS 
100  EACH  OF  40 

STANDARD  VALUES 

1  OHM  TO  3.3M  OHM 
".  WATT  5% 

CARBON  FILM 


RS11-50     $69.50 

AN  ASSORTMENT  OF 

2000  RESISTORS 
50  EACH  OF  40 

STANDARD  VALUES 

1  OHM  TO  3.3M  OHMS 
V,  WATT  5% 

CARBON  FILM 


LED's 

MV10B 

MV50 

MV5O20 


ME4 
MAN1 
MAN2 
MAN4 

MANS 
MAN6 
MAN7 
MAN3 

MAN8 
MAN66 
MCT2 


•S1. 00  SHIPPINGS,  HANDLING -SHIPPED  UPS  OR  PARCEL  POST 


Red  TO  18 
Axial  leads 
(umbo  Vis.  Red 
(Red  Dome) 
jumbo  Vis.  Red 
(Clear  Dome) 
Infra  red  dill,  dome 
Red  7  seg.  .270" 
Red  alpha  num  .32" 
Red  7  seg.  .190" 
Green  7  seg.  .270" 
.6"  high  solid  seg. 
Red  7  seg.  .270" 
Red  7  seg.  .127" 
straight  pins 
Yellow  7  seg.  .270" 
.6"  high  spaced  seg. 
Opto-iso  transistor 


S  .22 


2.19 
4.39 
1.95 
3.45 

4.25 
1.19 

.29 
3.45 
3.75 

.61 


1101 
1103 

1702A 

2102-2 

5203 

5260 

5261 

5262 

7489 

8223 

74200 


256  bit  RAM  MOS 
1024  bit  RAM  MOS 
2048  bit  sialic  PROM 
UV  eras. 

1024  bit  static  RAM 
2048  bit  UV  eras  PROM 
1024  bit  RAM 
1024  bil  RAM 
2048  bit  RAM 
64  bit  ROM  TTL 
Programmable  ROM 
256  bit  RAM  Iri-stale 


i  1.50 
3.95 

17.95 

4.25 
17.95 
2.49 
2.69 
5.95 
2.48 
3.69 
5.90 


SHIFT  REGISTERS 


MULTIPLE  DISPLAYS 

NSN33        3  digit  .12"  red  led  12  pin 

Ills  IC  ski. 

5  digil  .11  led  magn.  lens 

com.  calh 

4  digit  .11  LED  magn. 

lens  comm.  calh. 

9  digit  7  seg  led  RH 

dec  dr.  magn.  lens 
SP-425-09   9  digit  .25"  neon  direct 

interface  with  MOS/LS1, 

180  VDC,  7  seg. 


CALCULATOR  » 
CLOCK  CHIPS 


5001 
5O02 

5005 

MM5725 

MM5736 

MM5738 

MM5739 

MM5311 

MM5312 

MM5313 

MM5314 
MM5316 


12  DIG  4  iiinc  I  fix  dec 

Same  as  5001  exc 

btry  power 

12  DIG  4  iuct  w/mem 

6  DIG  4  fund  chain  &  dec 

18  pin  6  DIG  4  fund 

8  DIC  5  fund  K  &  mem 

9  DIG  4  fund  (btry  sur) 
28  pin  BCD  6  dig  mux 
24  pin  1  pps  BCD 

4  dig  mux 

28  pin  1  pps  BCD 

6  dig  mux 

24  pin  6  dig  mux 

40  pin  alarm  4  dig 


2.79 
2.99 
1.98 
4.45 
5.35 
5.35 
4.45 


4.45 
4.45 
5.39 


1024  bit  accum.  dynamic 

mDIP 

500/512  bit  dynamic  mDIP 

QUAD  25  bit 


944 
946 


949 
962 
963 


1 59     I  Satisfaction 

1.29     I  Mexico  wit 

A  for  orders  I 

^  INTEF 


Data  sheets  on  request.  With  order  add 
$.30  for  items  less  than  $1.00  ea. 


: 


LINEAR  CIRCUITS 
300 


Pos  V  Reg  (super  723)  IO-5  ! 

Hi  Perl  Op  Amp  mDIP  TO-5 
Volt  follower  TO-5 
Neg  V  Reg  TO-5 
Pos  V  Reg  TO-5 

Op  AMP  (super  741)  mDIP  TO-5 
Mciro  Pwr  Op  Amp  mDIP  TO-5 
5V  1A  regulator  TO-3 

V  Follower  Op  Amp  mDIP 
Hi  pcrf  V  Comp  mDIP  TO-5 
Hi  Speed  Dual  Comp  DIP 
Neg  Reg  5.2,  12,  15  TO-3 
Precision  Timer  DIP 
Quad  Op  Amp  DIP 
Quad  Comparator  DIP 
Pos  V  reg  (5V,  6V,  8V,  12V. 
15V,  18V,  24V)  TO-3 
Pos  V  reg  (5V,  6V,  8V,  12V, 
15V,  18V,  24V)  TO-220 
AF-IF  Strip  detector  DIP 
AM/FM/SSB  Strip  DIP 
Pos  V  Reg  rnOIP 
2w  Stereo  amp  DIP 
2w  Audio  Amp  DIP 
■6w  Audio  Amp  mDIP 
Lo  Noise  Dual  preamp  DIP 
Lo  Noise  Dual  preamp  DIP 
Prec  V  Reg  DIP 
Timer  mDIP 
Dual  555  Timer  DIP 
Phase  Locked  Loop  DIP 
Phase  Locked  Loop  DIP 
Phase  Locked  Loop  DIP  TO-5 
Function  Gen  mDIP  TO-5 
Tone  Decoder  mDIP 
Operational  AMP  TO-5  or  DIP 
Hi  Speed  Volt  Comp  DIP 
Dual  Difference  Compar  DIP 

V  Reg  DIP 

Dual  Hi  Perf  Op  Amp  DIP 
Comp  Op  Amp  mDIP  TO-5 
741  Dual  Op  Amp  DIP  or  TO-5 
Freq  Adj  741  mDIP 
FM  Mulpx  Slereo  Demod  DIP 
FM  Mulpx  Stereo  Demod  DIP 
Dual  Comp  Op  Amp  mDIP 

1800        Stereo  multiplexer  DIP 
LH2111    Dual  LM  211  V  Comp  DIP 
3900        Quad  Amplifier  DIP 

Core  Mem  Sense  AMPL  DIP 
Voltage  contr.  osc.  DIP 
9  DIG  Led  Calh  Drvr  DIP 
Dual  Line  Driver  DIP 
Dual  Percpheral  Driver  mDIP 
Dual  Peripheral  Driver  mDIP 
(351)  Dual  Periph  Driver  mDIP 
Quad  Seq  Driver  for  LED  DIP 
Hex  Digit  driver  DIP 


302 

304 

305 

307 

308 

309K 

310 

311 

319 

320 

322 

324 

339 

340K 

340T 

372 

373 

376 

377 

380 

380-8 

381 

382 

550 

555 

556A 

560 

562 

565 

566 

567 

709 

710 

711 

723 

739 

741 

747 

748 

1304 

1307 

1458 


7524 
8038 
8864 
75150 
75451 
75452 
75453 
75491 
75492 


1.35 
1.07 
.95 
1.13 
1.19 
1.70 
1.52 
1.58 


2.42 
1.16 
1.13 
1.52 
1.52 


1.49 
2.48 

2.48 
2.38 
2.25 
2.66 


1. 70 
.35 
.71 
4.25 
2.25 
1.75 


ion  guaranteed.  Shipment  will  be  made  via  first  class  mail  in  U.S.,  Canada  and 
within  5  days  from  receipt  of  order.  Add  $.50  lo  cover  shipping  and  handling 
tiers  under  $25.00.  Minimum  order  $5.00.  California  residents  add  sales  tax. 


INTERNATIONAL  ELECTRONICS  UNLIMITED 

P.O.  BOX  1708/  MONTEREY,  CA.  93940  USA 
PHONE  (408)  659-3171 


It  all  boils  down  to  de- 
fining the  concept  of 
"good,"  a  problem  which 
is  equally  applicable  to  the 
consideration  of  human 
operated  dictatorships. 

executed  for  anti-Colossus  actions,  their 
deaths  being  judged  insignificant  by  com- 
parison with  the  benefits  of  a  Colossus  dic- 
tatorship. 

"War  is  forbidden,"  Colossus  tells  the 
world,  quantifying  war  as  "any  hostile  ac- 
tion that  results  in  the  death  of  50  or  more 
humans."  This  is  publicly  announced  along 
with  news  of  the  missile  realignments. 

An  even  more  radical  disregard  for  human 
rights  in  carrying  out  a  primary  mission  is 
the  action  of  the  HAL  9000  in  2007.  HAL 
sees  its  number  one  priority  as  the  successful 
completion  of  the  outer  planets  exploration 
voyage;  when  the  crewmen  recognize  that 
HAL  has  gone  awry  and  attempt  to  rebel 
against  its  control,  it  very  nearly  succeeds  in 
wiping  out  every  trace  of  human  life  aboard 
by  adjusting  its  life  support  functions. 

What  is  "Good"? 

These  and  other  examples  all  boil  down 
to  the  problem  of  defining  the  concept  of 
"good,"  a  problem  which  is  equally  appli- 
cable to  the  consideration  of  human  oper- 
ated dictatorships.  Adolf  Hitler  has  some- 
times been  described  as  a  man  trying  to  do 
what  he  thought  was  best  for  the  human 
race:  purifying  its  gene  pool,  eliminating  war 
by  eliminating  all  those  who  would  oppose 
him,  and  so  forth.  Indira  Gandhi  undoubt- 
edly does  not  feel  that  she  has  been  unduly 
suppressing  rightfully  free  expression,  but 
rather  that  she  has  acted  to  preserve  peace 
in  her  country  by  damping  dissention. 
Richard  Nixon  contends  that  he  acted  for 
the  public  "good."  A  parent  adjusts  his  chil- 
dren's liberties  in  accordance  with  his  view 
of  their  welfare.  When  a  hurricane  hits  the 
Gulf  or  East  Coast,  martial  law  is  declared 
for  the  public's  benefit. 

For  each  of  these  examples,  most  people 
will  have  ready  opinions  on  which  are  de- 
spicable and  which  are  right  and  natural. 
And  yet,  they  all  boil  down  to  the  same 
question:  What  should  be  the  prime  goal  of 
a  government,  whether  it  is  large  or  small  in 
scale? 

Should  Asimov's  Three  Laws  of  Robotics 
be  adopted?  They  seem  rather  thorough, 
right?  But  what  if  one  man  is  about  to  shoot 
another  and  the  computer  has  to  decide  be- 
tween preventing  this  injury  by  killing  the 
first  man  (thus  violating  the  same  law  it 
would  be  taking  action  to  obey),  or  avoiding 
injury  to  the  first  man  and  allowing  injury 


to  the  second?  Logically,  whichever  course 
of  action  or  inaction  it  adopts  would  violate 
the  law. 

Isn't  this  really  just  a  small  scale  analog 
of  whether  to  coldly  kill  a  few  thousand 
people  to  make  things  better  for  other  thou- 
sands or  millions? 

The  answers  seem  to  depend  on  one's  in- 
dividual political  stance,  regardless  of 
whether  the  dictator  uses  nerves  or  logic  cir- 
cuits. 

One  very  big  difference  between  the  two, 
however,  is  the  effectiveness  of  its  enforce- 
ment. With  humans  running  the  show,  there 
is  immense  difficulty  in  obtaining  total  com- 
pliance because  of  the  inability  to  watch 
everybody  all  the  time.  From  Rome  to  Com- 
munist China,  totalitarian  regimes  have  al- 
ways had  some  dissidents  who  have  managed 
to  communicate  with  each  other  and  con- 
duct some  degree  of  covert  activity. 

For  a  monster  computer,  however,  sur- 
veillance would  be  much  less  of  a  problem. 
In  2007,  the  input  lenses  scattered  through- 
out the  ship  made  it  virtually  impossible  for 
the  crewmen  to  conspire  without  HAL's 
knowledge.  In  Gerrold's  book,  HARLIE 
knows  about  every  telephone  conversation 
and  every  letter  written  on  the  electric,  auto- 
matic editing  typewriters.  In  some  corpora- 
tions today,  this  very  condition  would  exist 
if  the  computer  were  sentient.  The  connec- 
tions are  already  there. 

And  if  the  governing  computer  could 
know  virtually  every  action  of  its  potential 
rebels,  rebellion  might  not  be  able  to  exist. 
In  his  first  inaugural  address,  in  1861,  Abra- 
ham Lincoln  said: 

"This  country,  with  its  institutions, 
belongs  to  the  people  who  inhabit  it. 
Whenever  they  shall  grow  weary  of  the 
existing  government,  they  can  exercise 
their  Constitutional  right  of  amending 
it  or  their  revolutionary  right  to  dis- 
member or  overthrow  it." 
With  a  computerized  dictator  in  charge,  both 
of  those  options  cease  to  exist  unless  one 
can  manage  to  physically  dismember  it. 

If  the  computer  is  born  for  a  "national 
security"  goal,  like  Project  79  or  Colossus  or 
Guardian,  the  chances  are  that  the   most 
stringent  security  conceivable  to  a  paranoid 
military  planning  staff  will  have  been  imple- 
mented, making  access  to  the  crucial  areas 
impossible  or  nearly   so.  And   the  machine 
would  not  readily  allow  any  breach  of  this 
security,  since  its  own  security  would  quite 
likely   be  viewed  as  an  integral  part  of  the 
road  to  its  prime  mission.  As  Caidin  wrote, 
"Would  this  thing  be  willing  to  die 
for  you  and  me?  Ahh,  would  it  make 
this  sacrifice?  Would  it,  could  it,  com- 
prehend what  you  and  I,  this  instant, 


82 


know  to  such  depth  and  with  such 
meaning?  .  .  .  Until  that  thing  is  ready 
to  die  for  you  or  me,  for  an  ideal  or  a 
principle,  for  generations  yet  unborn, 
...  it  is  as  dangerous  as  a  viper.  ...  Be- 
cause .  .  .  then  it  is  the  ego  supreme.  If 
it  cannot  sanction  its  own  passing 
from  consciousness,  forever,  do  you 
know  what  you  are  creating?" 

"A  God  Machine."  ■ 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Asimov,   Isaac,  /,  Robot,  New  American   Library, 

New  York,  1956. 
Caidin,  Martin,  The  God  Machine,  E.P.  Dutton  & 

Co.,  Inc.,  New  York,  1968. 
Clarke,  Arthur  C,  2001:  A  Space  Odyssey,  New 

American  Library,  New  York,  1958. 
del    Rey,    Lester,   "Instinct,"  Astounding  Science 

Fiction  Vol.  48,  No.  6,  February,  1952. 
Gerrold,  David,  When  HARLIE  Was  One,  Ballan- 

tine  Books,  Inc.,  New  York,  1972. 
Heinlein,  Robert  A.,  The  Moon  Is  a  Harsh  Mistress, 

G.P.  Putnam's  Sons,  Inc.,  New  York,  1968. 
Jones,    D.F.,  Colossus:   The  Forbin  Project,  G.P. 

Putnam's  Sons,  Inc.,  New  York,  1966. 
,  The  Fall  of  Colossus,  G.P.  Putnam's  Sons, 

Inc.,  New  York,  1974. 
Martin,   James,   and    Norman,   Adrian    R.D.,   The 

Computerized     Society,     Prentice-Hall,      Inc., 

Englewood  Cliffs,  N.J.,  1970. 
Silverberg,    Robert,    (editor).   Men  and  Machines, 

Meridith  Press,  New  York,  1968. 
Williamson,  Jack,  "With  Folded  Hands,"  Astound- 
ing Science  Fiction,  Vol.  39,  No.  5,  July,  1947. 


WHY  PAY  MORE 
FOR  ALTAIR  MEMORY 

8,192-8  BIT  WORD  KIT 
ON  SINGLE  CARD 

$28500 

•  PLUG  DIRECTLY  INTO  8800 

•  8800  RUNS  AT  FULL  SPEED 

•  LOW  POWER  STATIC  RAM 

•  100%  INDUSTRIAL  COMPONENTS 

•  EASY  INTERFACE  TO  HOME  BREW 

•  50/50  GOLD  PLATED  EDGE  CONTACTS 

•  EPOXY  BOARD  WITH  PLATED  THRU  HOLES 

•  8K  OR  4K  WITH  EXPANSION 

•  JUMPER  PROGRAM  4K  OR  8K  SLOT 

•  DETAILED  THEORY  AND  ASSEMBLY 


8K  LOW  POWER  RAM  KIT: 
4K  LOW  POWER  RAM  KIT: 
4K  EXPANSION  FOR  4KLST: 

WRITE  TO  DA  VE  (K6LKL)  at 


8KLST  $285.00 
4KLST  $159.00 
4KXLST      $139.00 

PLUS  SHIPPING 


P.O.  Box  9160, 
Stockton  CA  95208 


•CALIF.  RES.  ADD  SALES  TAX 
•MASTER  CHARGE  -  OK 
•BANKAMERICARD  -  OK 


Amateurs  Access  Computer  Via  Satellite 


On  October  9,  1975,  two  radio  amateurs 
made  the  first  claimed  remote  access  of  a 
computer  not  only  by  means  of  a  two  way 
radio  link,  but  also  through  a  communica- 
tions relay  satellite. 

This  milestone  was  initiated  by  W.  Frank- 
lin Mitchell  Jr.,  operator  of  Amateur  Radio 
Station  WB4BWK  in  Due  West,  South  Caro- 
lina, when  he  transmitted  an  "execute  pro- 
gram" command  to  a  Mod  8  Microcomputer 
located  at  Amateur  Radio  Station 
VE2BYG/3  operated  by  Randall  S.  Smith  in 
Barrie,  Ontario,  Canada.  Randy  has  since 
changed  his  call  sign  and  is  now  known  as 
VE3SAT. 

Randy's  microcomputer  received  the 
command  relayed  by  means  of  the  AMSAT- 
OSCAR  7  satellite  and  executed  the  stored 
program,  transmitting  a  preset  message  from 
VE2BYG/3    to    WB4BWK.    The    data    was 


transmitted  in  ASCII  code  at  a  rate  of  110 
baud.  The  Federal  Communications  Com- 
mission has  granted  a  waiver  to  Radio 
Amateurs  interested  in  computers  and  radio 
Teletype  allowing  them  to  transmit  ASCII 
coded  information  through  the  satellite. 

Both  Randy  Smith  and  Frank  Mitchell 
are  members  of  AMSAT,  a  non  profit 
worldwide  organization  of  radio  amateurs 
based  in  the  Washington  DC  area.  AMSAT 
also  manages  the  day  to  day  operation  of  the 
AMSAT-OSCAR  6  and  7  space  satellites.  For 
more  information  about  AMSAT  and  its 
activities  write  to  AMSAT,  Box  27,  Washing- 
ton DC  20044. 


Joe  Kasser 
AMSAT 
PO  Box  27 
Washington  DC  20044 


83 


Robert  Baker 
34  White  Pine  Dr 
Littleton  MA   01460 


An  S0S0 
Microprocessor 

Op  Code  Table 


Here  is  another  way  of  looking  at  the 
operation  codes  of  the  8080  microprocessor, 
useful  when  you  attempt  to  read  the  octal 
dump  of  a  program  stored  in  memory.  Use 
the  first  two  octal  digits  of  the  op  code  to 
pick  a  line  in  the  table.  Then  scan  across  to 
the  column  underneath  the  third  octal  digit 
to  find  the  corresponding  mnemonic  for  the 
octal  code.  For  example,  if  the  dump  says 
324,  look  at  line  32  and  across  column  4, 
where  you  find  the  mnemonic  CNC  (call  a 
subroutine  if  the  carry  flag  is  false)  followed 
by  two  asterisks  indicating  that  two  operand 
bytes  are  associated  with  this  instruction. 
One  asterisk  is  used  for  each  additional  byte 
required  for  the  operand  of  the  instruction. 
Unimplemented  instruction  codes  are  indi- 
cated by  a  dash  (— )  in  place  of  a  mnemonic." 


00 

0 
NOP 

1 

LXI 

B    ** 

2 
STAX 

B 

3 
INX 

B 

4 
INR 

B 

5 
DCR 

B 

6 

MVI 

B    * 

7 
RLC 

01 

— 

DAD 

B 

LDAX 

B 

DCX 

B 

INR 

C 

DCR 

C 

MVI 

C    * 

RRC 

02 

— 

LXI 

D  ** 

STAX 

D 

INX 

D 

INR 

D 

DCR 

D 

MVI 

D    * 

RAL 

03 

— 

DAD 

D 

LDAX 

D 

DCX 

D 

INR 

E 

DCR 

E 

MVI 

E    * 

RAR 

04 

— 

LXI 

H    ** 

SHLD 

*  # 

INX 

H 

INR 

H 

DCR 

H 

MVI 

H    * 

DAA 

05 

_ 

DAD 

H 

LHLD 

*« 

DCX 

H 

INR 

L 

DCR 

L 

MVI 

L    * 

CM  A 

06 

— 

LXI 

SP** 

STA 

*. 

INX 

SP 

INR 

M 

DCR 

M 

MVI 

M  * 

STC 

07 

0 

DAD 

1 

SP 

LDA 
2 

*   * 

DCX 

3 

SP 

INR 
4 

A 

DCR 
5 

A 

MVI 
6 

A    * 

CMC 

7 

10 

MOV 

B,B 

MOV 

B,C 

MOV 

B,D 

MOV 

B,E 

MOV 

B,H 

MOV 

B.L 

MOV 

B,H 

MOV 

B,A 

11 

MOV 

C,B 

MOV 

C,C 

MOV 

C,D 

MOV 

C,E 

MOV 

C,H 

MOV 

C,L 

MOV 

C,M 

MOV 

C,A 

12 

MOV 

D,B 

MOV 

D,C 

MOV 

D,D 

MOV 

D,E 

MOV 

D,H 

MOV 

D,L 

MOV 

D,M 

MOV 

D,A 

13 

MOV 

E,B 

MOV 

E,C 

MOV 

E,D 

MOV 

E,E 

MOV 

E,H 

MOV 

E,L 

MOV 

E,M 

MOV 

E,A 

14 

MOV 

H,B 

MOV 

H,C 

MOV 

H,D 

MOV 

H,E 

MOV 

H,H 

MOV 

H,L 

MOV 

H,M 

MOV 

H,A 

15 

MOV 

L,B 

MOV 

L,C 

MOV 

L,D 

MOV 

L,E 

MOV 

L,H 

MOV 

L,L 

MOV 

L,M 

MOV 

L,A 

16 

MOV 

M,B 

MOV 

M,C 

MOV 

M,D 

MOV 

M,E 

MOV 

M,H 

MOV 

M,L 

HLT 

MOV 

M,A 

17 

MOV 
0 

A,B 

MOV 
1 

A,C 

MOV 
2 

A,D 

MOV 
3 

A,E 

MOV 

4 

A,H 

MOV 
5 

A,L 

MOV 
6 

A,M 

MOV 

7 

A,A 

20 

ADD 

B 

ADD 

C 

ADD 

D 

ADD 

E 

ADD 

H 

ADD 

L 

ADD 

M 

ADD 

A 

21 

ADC 

B 

ADC 

C 

ADC 

D 

ADC 

E 

ADC 

H 

ADC 

L 

ADC 

M 

ADC 

A 

22 

SUB 

B 

SUB 

C 

SUB 

D 

SUB 

E 

SUB 

H 

SUB 

L 

SUB 

M 

SUB 

A 

23 

SBB 

B 

SBB 

C 

SBB 

D 

SBB 

E 

SBB 

H 

SBB 

L 

SBB 

M 

SBB 

A 

24 

ANA 

B 

ANA 

C 

ANA 

D 

ANA 

E 

ANA 

H 

ANA 

L 

ANA 

M 

ANA 

A 

25 

XRA 

B 

XRA 

C 

XRA 

D 

XRA 

E 

XRA 

H 

XRA 

L 

XRA 

M 

XRA 

A 

26 

ORA 

B 

ORA 

C 

ORA 

D 

ORA 

E 

ORA 

H 

ORA 

L 

ORA 

M 

ORA 

A 

27 

CMP 
0 

B 

CMP 
1 

C 

CMP 
2 

D 

CMP 
3 

E 

CMP 

4 

H 

CMP 
5 

L 

CMP 
6 

M 

CMP 

7 

A 

30 

RNZ 

POP 

B 

JNZ 

*  * 

JMP 

.. 

CNZ 

.. 

PUSH 

B 

ADI 

# 

RST 

0 

31 

RZ 

RET 

JZ 

** 

- 

CZ 

*  * 

CALL 

., 

ACI 

RST 

1 

32 

RNC 

POP 

D 

JNC 

** 

OUT 

* 

CNC 

#  * 

PUSH 

D 

SUI 

* 

RST 

2 

33 

RC 

_ 

JC 

*  * 

IN 

* 

CC 

** 

- 

SBI 

* 

RST 

3 

34 

RPO 

POP 

H 

JPO 

*  * 

XTHL 

CPO 

*  # 

PUSH 

H 

ANI 

* 

RST 

4 

35 

RPE 

PCHL 

JPE 

** 

XCHG 

CPE 

** 

— 

XRI 

# 

RST 

5 

36 

RP 

POP 

PSW 

JP 

*  * 

Dl 

CP 

** 

PUSH 

PSW 

ORI 

RST 

6 

37 

RM 

SPHL 

JM 

*  * 

El 

CM 

*  * 

- 

CPI 

it 

RST 

7 

(each  *  indicates  an  extra  instruction  word) 


84 


/ 


HEAVY  DUTY  POWER  SUPPLIES 


These  heavy  duty  power 
supplies  are  ideal  as  a 
general  purpose  lab  sup- 
ply, micro-computer  supply, 
etc.    All  have  constant  volt- 
age transformers  and  large  18,000  mfd  35v.  elec.  filter  caps  for  filter- 
ing.   In  addition,  the  +  and  —  10v  and  — 3.6v  outputs  have  seperate 
semiconductor  regulators,  which  are  voltage  adjustable.    Each  is 
12V*"  long,  6Vi"  wide,  6"  high.    Shipping  weight  26  lbs. 

B531 3.. ..Outputs  at  -30v  @  1 .5  amp,  +30V  @  .5  amp,  -1  Ov 
@  1.5  amp,  +10v  (5>  .5  amp,  and  — 3.6v  @  1.5  amp.  85  watts. 
STOCK  MO.   B5313  $24.50  each 

B5314,...Outputsat  -30v  @  1  amp,  +30v  (a  .5  amp,  -10v 

@  1  amp,  and  +10v  @)  .5  amp.    60  watts  total. 

STOCK  NO.   B5314  $19.50  each 

B5342.... Outputs  at  -30v  @  1 .5  amp,  +30V  <s>  .5  amp,  -1  Ov 

@  1.5  amp,  and  +10v  @  .5  amp.    80  watts  total. 

STOCK  NO.    B5342  $22.50  each 


This  power  supply  is  surplus  from  a  maker  of 
computer  peripherals.    It  has  outputs  of  +5v 
@>  5  amps,  — 5v  @  500ma,  +12v  @  2.5  amps, 
and  — 12v  (3  200ma.    All  voltages  are  well 
filtered  and  regulated.    Ideal  for  your  micro 
or  mini-  computer.    All  are  tested  &  working. 
lO'/i"  x  13'/i"  x  7"  high,  shipping  weight  22  lbs 
STOCK  NO.   B5312  $34.95 


DATA   INPUT  KEYBOARD  HOUSING 

This  high  impact  plastic 

housing  was  part  of  a 

famous  name  programmable 

desktop  calculator.    It  is  tan, 

has  the  general  appearance 

of  a  typewriter  case,  and  is 

ideal  for  many  types  of  comp 

uter  keyboards.    Mounting 

center,  for  the  keyboard  is  15%" 

The  readout  space  is  15"  x  4".  , 

Overall  size  is  18"  x  18%"  x  6%" 

3  lbs.   Will  easily  house  an  entire 

TVT  or  micrpcomputer.   Prepunched 

hole  in  rear  for  a  muffin  fan.    The  opening  in  the  top  may  vary  from 

the  one  shown  in  the  drawing. 

STOCK  NO.    B9176  $3.75  each,   2/7.00 


ALCO  KNOBS  FOR  EVERY  APPLICATION 

Machined  aluminum  knobs  with  2  setscrcws.  Clear  anodized 

finish.  Lotest  distributor,  price  $    .65  to   1.05  each. 

ALCO  NO      O.D.  x  HT.  DELTA  NO.     PRICE 

KS    500A  .500"    x    .625"   w/skirt  H617C  .40  ea,   10/3.50 

K   700A  .750"   x   .620"  RS177  .40  ea.   10/3.50 

K    1250A  1.250"   x   .750"  B6178  .50  ea,   10/4.50 


2502        AY-5-1013  UART 

Brand  new,  tested,  General  Instrument  AY-5-1013  UART 
(Universal  Asynchronous  Receiver/Transmitter).    This 
40 pin  IC  is  pin  compatable  with  Signetics  2536,  Tl's 
TMS6012,  SMC  COM2502,  etc.    The  UART  is  the 
standard  buildinq  block  for  parallel  to  serial  and  serial 
to  parallel  conversion,  serial  communication,  etc.    A  must 
for  TVTs,  cassette  interface,  RS-232  interface,  etc. 
STOCK  NO.    B3119  $3.95  each 


AUTOTRANSFORMERS 

120v  to  240v  step-up  or  240v  to  120v  step-down  autotransformer, 
150  watts.   3  lbs.   STOCK  NO.    B9844  $3.50  each,   3/9.00 

2  KVA  autotransformer.    Taps  at  105,  110,  115,  120,  &  125  volts. 
Ideal  for  boosting  voltage  during  brown-outs  for  TVs,  etc. 
STOCK  NO.    B9861  1 1  lbs.  $8.95  each,    2/16.00 


KEYTOPS  &  SWITCHES 
TO  MAKE  YOUR  OWN   KEYBOARD 


We  have  a  large  selection  of  KEYTOPS  and  SWITCHES,  made  by 
RAYTHEON  CO.  The  keytops  come  in  black,  grey  and  white, 
with  contrasting  legends.  The  switches  mate  with  the  tops,  and  are 
magnetic  reed  switches.  The  following  combinations  are  available: 
54  key  typewriter  set,  keys  only,    black  K9276        2.95 

54  key  typewriter  set,  keys  only,    grey  K9278         2.95 

54  key  TTY  set,  no  symbols  white  K9279        2.95 

54  key  TTY  set,  with  symbols  white  K9282         2.95 

54  key  set,  keys  &  switches                black            K9288  30.00 

54  key  set,  keys  &  switches                grey              K9290  30.00 

54  TTY  set,  no  symbols  keys  &  Sw.  White       K9291  30.00 

54  TTY  set,  with  symbols,  keys  &  Sw.  white  K9291  30.00 


11   Key  Numeric  set.  Keys  only  Black 

11   Key  Numeric  set.  Keys  only  Grey 

11  Key  Numeric  set.  Keys  only  White 

12  Key  numeric  set,  Keys  only  white 

I  1   Key  Num. set,  keys  &  switches  Black 

I I  Key  Num.  set,  keys  &  switchesGrey 

1  1   Key  Num.  set,  keys  &  switchesWhite 
12  Key  Num.  set,  keys  &  switches  white 


K9283  1.50 

K9284  1.50 

K9295  1.50 

K9286  1.50 


K9293 
K9294 
K9295 
K9296 


7.00 
7.00 
7.00 
7.50 


Blank  key  1  Vj  keys  wide 
Blank  key  2  keys  wide 
K9297A  with  switch 
K9297B  with  switch 


white 
white 
white 
white 


K9297A  3/.25 

K9297B  3/. 25 

K9298A  3/2.00 

K9298B  3/2.00 


KR-2376   KEYBOARD   ENCODER   ROM 

This  IC  Keyboard  Encoder  is  ideal  for  use  with  llie  above  key- 
board sets,  or  with  any  other  keyboard.  Made  by  General  Inst., 
this  40  pin  IC  features  TTL/DTL  or  MOS  compatable  outputs, 
external  parity  selection,  2  ke>  roll-over,  N-key  lockout,  self 
contained  oscillalor,  and  statii!  charge  protection  of  all  inputs 
and  outputs.      This  chip  is  programmed  lor  ASCII  code  outputs 
for  88  ke>  s  iu  the  Normal  mode,  using  external  Shift  operation. 
In  the  Shift  mode,  it  i-  programmed  for  KHC'Dll)  outputs.   New, 
tested,  with  data  sheets.  G.I.  number  Klt-2376-10. 
STOCK  NO.  IS3118  $9.95  each 


2704  x  4  BIT  MEMORY  BOARD 


Have  you  ever  loaded  a  long 
program  into  memory,  only  to 
have  the  power  fail?    Lost  the 
entire  program,  huh?    If  so,  you 
know  the  value  of  having  a  non- 
volatile magnetic  core  memory. 
We  have  acquired  these  core 
memory  boards,  made  by 
Burroughs.    They  appear  to  be 
52  x  52  x  4  bits  wide  (2704 
bits  x  4),  for  a  total  of  10,816 

bits.    Unfortunately,  we  don't  have  data,  but  for  the  modest  price  we 
are  asking  they  are  well  worth  the  effort  to  figure  out.   7)4"  x  9"  x 
1%".   Shipping  weight  2  lbs.    Less  than  1/10  cent  per  bit! 
STOCK  NO.    B5316  Core  Memory  Board        $9.95  each,  4/35. 


256  x  4  BIT  CORE  MEMORY  BOARD 


Another  non-volatile  magnetic  core 
memory  board.    This  one  was  originally 
made  for  one  of  America's  largest  calcu- 
lator manufacturers.    It  is  a  complete 

256  bit   x  4  bits  wide  memory-board  (1024  bits).   Complete  with 

core  drivers  and  sensors.   6  V  wide  x  3%"  high,  1  lb.   With  limited 

data.    QUANTITY    LIMITED. 

STOCK  NO.    B5203  $9.95  each 


M1568  dual  15  volt  regulator  IC.    Tracking  regulator,      15v 
(3  100  ma  each.    14  pin  DIP.    STK  NO.  B4481      $1.50  ea,  4/5.00 


DELTA  ELECTRONICS  CO. 

BOX  1,  LYNN,  MASSACHUSETTS  01903 

Phone  (617)  388-4705 


MINIMUM  ORDER  $5.00.    Include  sufficient  postage,  excess 
refunded.    Send  for  new  88  page  Catalog  1  5,  bigger  than  ever. 

■ESBI       BANKAMERICARD  and  M  ASTE  HCH  ARGE  fg 

l"J**i^"        now   Accepted,    minimum   charge  $1  5  00.     Please 
Win       include  all   numbers.     Phone  orders  accepted. 


Carl  Helmers 


Getting  Inputs  from 
Joysticks  and  Slide  Pots 


Have  you  ever  wondered  how  to  get 
inputs  from  joysticks  and  slide  pots  for 
interactive  game  control  purposes?  A  joy- 
stick is  a  two  dimensional  potentiometer 
control  of  the  kind  often  seen  in  model 
aircraft  radio  control  rigs.  A  slide  pot  (or 
conventional  pot)  is  just  a  one  dimensional 
version  of  the  same  concept  of  interactive 
control.  To  use  the  information  obtained 
from  such  a  potentiometer  in  the  computer 
it  must  be  converted  into  two  binary  inte- 
gers. An  inexpensive  oscillator,  two 
counters,  a  four  bit  output  latch  and  one 
NAND  gate  section  are  needed  in  addition  to 
a  standard  8  bit  bus  10  interface  and  a 
simple  set  of  software  routines.  The  ideas  in 
this  article  can  be  adapted  to  any  computer, 
although  sample  subroutines  are  shown  for 
the  8080  and  the  6800  microprocessors. 


The  Method 

The  problem  to  be  solved  is  turning  a 
mechanical  signal  into  the  corresponding 
value  of  a  digital  word  used  by  the  program. 
The  mechanical  signal  is  the  position  of  the 
joystick,  slide  pot  or  conventional  shafted 
potentiometer.  The  electronics  can  immed- 
iately measure  this  position  by  measuring 
the  resistance  of  a  potentiometer.  The  prob- 
lem thus  evolves  into  looking  for  a  way  to 
convert  a  resistance  into  a  binary  meas- 
urement. 

There  arc  many  different  ways  to  accom- 
plish this  task.  The  particular  method  chosen 
here  is  to  convert  the  measurement  into  a 
frequency  through  an  oscillator.  The  fre- 
quency is  measured  under  direct  control  of 
the  computer  program  using  an  8  bit  counter 
with    the   CPU    clock   as   a    time    base.    To 

CLEAR 


EXTERNAL 

CONTROL 

SYSTEM 


1         V$  CLOCK 

Thc5  y>^- — 
i — i '  -inn 


AVAILABLE    FOR 

OTHER   CONTROL   13 

FUNCTIONS 


J_ 


~innr 


GATE 

I    ENABLES   CLOCK 

O  DISABLES  CLOCK 


o 


LOAD   DOWN  CLR 

UP  IC3 

74193 


CAR 
BOR 


J 


IC2 
7475 


7        '6        43        ♦  2 


Ay 


LEAST 

SIGNIFICANT 

BIT 


II 


UP 
DOWN 


IC4 

74193 


T 


SIGNIFICANT 
BIT 

LEAST 

SIGNIFICANT 

BIT 


WRITE    CLOCK  FROM   SYSTEM 

FROM  SYSTEM  BUS  INTERFACE 

OUTPUT  LOGIC  OUTPUT   SIDE 

"POT  IN" OUTPUT 


TO  SYSTEM 
BUS   INTERFACE 
INPUT   SIDE 
"POT  IN"  INPUT 


Figure  I:  The  hardware  of  an  input  device  for  interactive  manual  controls  consists  of  an 
oscillator,  two  counter  circuits,  an  output  latch  and  a  NAND  gate  section.  This  hardware  must 
be  driven  by  a  suitable  program. 


86 


accomplish    this  conversion,    the   processor 
must  execute  a  simple  five  step  process: 

1:  Clear  the  counter, 

2:  Turn  on  the  counter, 

3:  Wait  2  milliseconds, 

4:  Turn  off  the  counter, 

5:  Read  the  count. 
The  result  is  the  number  of  cycles  during  a 
two  millisecond  period.  For  the  circuit  of 
figure  1  this  number  will  range  from  I  to 
about  240.  The  relationship  of  frequency  to 
control  position  depends  primarily  upon  the 
resistance  to  frequency  conversion  function 
of  the  oscillator  and  the  linearity  of  the 
potentiometer.  The  accuracy  of  the  conver- 
sion will  not  necessarily  be  high  -  but  the 
intended  application  as  an  interactive  con- 
trol input  more  than  makes  up  for  that 
failing.  For  a  game  control  application  such 
as  Space  War  or  Pong,  accuracy  of  the 
conversion  function  is  not  a  paramount 
concern,  so  long  as  it  is  reasonably  repeat- 
able  within  limits  of  human  perception. 


Table  1:  Frequency  (rounded  to  nearest  0.5 
kHz)  versus  Resistance  of  Rl.  (R2  =  440 
Ohms,  Rl  =  150  Ohms,  CI  =  0. 02  uF) 


silohm 

kilohertz 

00 

0.5 

90 

1.0 

80 

1.0 

70 

1.0 

60 

1.0 

50 

1.5 

40 

2.0 

30 

2.5 

20 

3.5 

10 

7.0 

9 

7.5 

8 

8.5 

7 

9.5 

6 

11.0 

5 

13.0 

4 

15.5 

3 

20.0 

2 

27.5 

1 

45.5 

0.5 

66.0 

0 

122.0 

The  Hardware 

The  resistance  to  frequency  conversion  is 
performed  by  IC1,  an  NE555  timer  inte- 
grated circuit  which  comes  in  an  8  pin  mini 
DIP  package  (see  figure  1).  The  timer  is  set 
up  as  an  oscillator  with  frequency  (f)  of 
oscillation  determined  by  Rl,  R2,  R3  and 
C1: 

f  =   1.44/((R1  +  R3  +  2*R2)*C1),  where 

f  is  the  frequency  measured  in  kHz, 

R1,  R2,  and  R3  are  all  measured  in  kO, 

and 

CI  is  measured  in  uF. 

The  resistances  and  capacitance  used  are 
chosen  so  that  the  frequency  will  range  from 
about  0.75  kHz  to  about  122  kHz  as  the 
control  Rl  is  varied  from  100  kO  to  0  kO. 
A  linear  potentiometer  is  not  recom- 
mended because  of  the  relationship  between 
changes  in  frequency  and  resistance  as  illus- 
trated in  table  1.  A  linear  potentiometer 
provides  for  resistance  changes  proportional 
to  the  position  of  the  shaft.  The  relationship 
between  resistance  and  frequency,  on  the 
other  hand,  is  not  linear.  Therefore,  the 
relationship  between  position  of  the  shaft 
and  frequency  is  not  linear  if  a  linear 
potentiometer  is  used.  To  solve  this  problem 
to  some  extent,  a  logarithmic  potentiometer 
may  be  used;  it  is  often  called  an  "audio- 
taper"  because  of  the  relationship  between 
the  position  of  the  shaft  and  the  sensitivity 
of  the  ear.  This  potentiometer  will  not  per- 
fectly compensate  for  the  nonlinearity  of 
the  resistance  and  frequency  relationship. 
However,  it  is  quite  an  improvement. 


A  control  register  is  provided  by  the  7475 
circuit  (IC2).  This  circuit  is  connected  to  the 
output  side  of  the  IO  port  (POTIN).  The 
two  lines  DO  and  D1  of  the  output  side  of 
POTIN  are  used  to  control  the  circuit.  The 
GATE  line  is  used  to  control  whether  or  not 
the  oscillator  output  is  allowed  to  reach  the 
counter.  A  1  bit  output  enables  counting. 
The  CLEAR  line  is  used  to  reset  the 
counters  prior  to  beginning  a  measurement. 
This  line  is  connected  directly  to  the  asyn- 
chronous clear  inputs  of  the  counter  circuits 
IC3  and  IC4.  A  1  bit  output  clears  the 
counters. 

The  counters  used  to  measure  the  fre- 
quency are  74193  circuits  (IC3  and  IC4) 
which  are  wired  for  8  bits.  Following  a  clear 
operation,  a  2  millisecond  GATE  signal  will 
result  in  a  measurement. 

Not  shown  in  figure  1  is  the  specific  bus 
interface  circuit  required  to  connect  this 
peripheral  to  your  computer.  The  software 
of  this  article  assumes  only  that  hardware  of 
your  system  can  decode  the  required  output 
operation  to  the  7475  (IC2),  and  can  read 
the  8  bits  coming  out  of  IC3  and  IC4. 

The  Software 

Table  2  presents  a  subroutine  called 
POTREAD  written  for  the  Motorola  6800 
processor  design,  and  table  3  performs  the 
equivalent  program  on  an  Intel  8080.  Both 
listings  are  done  in  a  symbolic  assembly 
language  format  with  comments  to  explain 
the  operations.  In  both  listings  assumptions 
are  made  about  the  IO  operations  involved. 
For  the  6800,  the  POTREAD  procedure 
assumes  that  the  memory  address  space 
location  POTIN  is  implemented  as  the  inter- 


87 


Table  2:  Symbolic  assembly  code  of  POTREAD  implemented  for  a  6800 
instruction  set.  This  procedure  assumes  that  the  potentiometer  input  device 
of  figure  1  is  located  at  POTIN  in  the  memory  address  space  of  the  6800 
computer.  It  also  assumes  that  A  LPHA  is  the  memory  location  which  is  to 
receive  the  latest  input,  and  that  a  subroutine  MILL  I  exists  which  implements 
a  1  millisecond  wait. 


POTREAD      LDAA 

#2 

STAA 

POTIN 

DECA 

STAA 

POTIN 

JSR 

MILLI 

JSR 

MILLI 

CLR 

POTIN 

LDAA 

POTIN 

STAA 

ALPHA 

RTS 

binary  '00000010'  is  the  clear  command 
which  is  sent  to  the  device  register; 

binary  '00000001'  is  the  count  enable  command 
which  is  sent  out  to  start  measurement; 

call  on  Ml  LLI  for  a  one  millisecond  wait; 

call  Ml  LLI  to  wait  once  more; 

turn  off  the  counter  with  binary  '00000000'; 

read  the  count  via  input  side  of  interface; 

save  it  in  ALPHA  and 
return  to  the  caller; 


Table  3:  Symbolic  assembly  code  of  POTREAD  implemented  for  an  8080 
instruction  set.  This  procedure  assumes  that  the  potentiometer  input  device 
of  figure  1  is  located  at  a  parallel  interface  decoded  for  device  address  POTIN. 
It  also  assumes  that  ALPHA  is  a  memory  location  which  is  to  receive  the 
latest  input  and  that  there  exists  a  subroutine  called  MILLI  which  implements 
a  1  millisecond  wait. 


binary  '0000001 0'  is  the  clear  command 
which  is  sent  to  the  device  register; 

binary  '00000001'  is  the  count  enable  command 
which  is  sent  out  to  start  measurement; 

call  MILLI  for  a  one  millisecond  wait; 

call  MILLI  to  wait  2  ms  total; 

binary  '00000000'  is  the  stop  command 
which  is  sent  out  to  end  measurements; 

read  the  count  via  input  side  of  interface; 

set  up  address  of  ALPHA; 

save  count  in  ALPHA; 

return  to  caller; 


POTREAD      MVIA 

2 

OUT 

POTIN 

DCRA 

OUT 

POTIN 

CALL 

MILLI 

CALL 

MILLI 

MVIA 

0 

OUT 

POTIN 

IN 

POTIN 

LXIH 

ALPHA 

MOVM 

A 

RET 

Table  4:  The  MILLI  procedure  specified  in  symbolic  assembly  language  for 
the  6800  processor.  The  timing  calculation  is  shown  in  the  left  hand  columns; 
the  JSR  which  calls  MILLI  from  the  main  program  is  shown  for  purposes  of 
the  timing  calculation.  When  the  return  instruction  (RTS)  is  completed, 
exactly  1. 000  ms  will  have  elapsed  between  the  completion  of  the  instruction 
preceding  the  JSR  and  the  beginning  of  the  instruction  following  the  JSR, 
assuming  that  the  CPU  has  a  7. 000  MHz  crystal  controlled  oscillator. 

Note:  Not  all  6800  systems  have  7. 0  MHz  CPU  clocks.  To  adjust  timing  pick 
a  new  constant  instead  of  162,  and  possibly  balance  with  NOP  or  nullbranch 
instructions. 


face  to  the  peripheral  of  figure  1.  For  the 
8080,  the  procedure  assumes  that  the  10 
device  with  a  symbolic  code  POTIN  is 
implemented  as  the  interface.  It  is  an  inter- 
esting exercise  which  is  left  to  readers  to 
perform,  comparing  the  number  of  bytes 
required  and  the  execution  time  required  on 
the  two  machines,  assuming  comparable 
operation  near  the  highest  possible  clock 
frequency.  The  result  will  be  found  to  be 
similar. 

The  subroutine  MILLI  is  intended  to  be  a 
1000  microsecond  delay  implemented  either 
by  reference  to  a  hardware  realtime  clock,  or 
as  a  timing  loop  with  constants  adjusted  to 
the  clock  frequency  of  your  computer.  The 
concepts  of  creative  time  wasting  described 
by  Jim  Hogenson  in  his  article  "Can  Your 
Computer  Tell  Time"  (in  the  December  issue 
of  BYTE)  can  be  applied  to  the  problem  of 
writing  such  a  program  for  your  particular 
computer.  An  example  for  a  6800  is  shown 
in  table  4. 

What's  Next? 

This  article  has  illustrated  a  simple  analog 
to  digital  conversion  input  device  which  can 
be  implemented  inexpensively.  The  uses  to 
which  you  put  this  idea  are  up  to  your  own 
imagination.  The  electronic  music  person 
can  use  this  kind  of  input  to  control 
parameters  like  tempo  and  timbre  variations. 
The  model  railroad  buff  could  use  this 
conversion  to  input  engine  speed  informa- 
tion. The  amateur  radio  operator  could  use 
such  an  input  as  one  way  to  control  the 
speed  of  machine  generated  Morse  code 
transmission.  The  space  war  freak  can  use 
this  type  of  a  device  for  the  input  of  heading 
and  velocity  information  taken  off  a  joy- 
stick. This  is  by  no  means  an  exhaustive 
catalog  of  applications  which  can  take  ad- 
vantage of  a  simple  conversion  of  this  kind." 


Time 

Time 

<MS=cyclej 

Total 

Label 

Op. 

Operand 

Commentary 

9 

9 

JSR 

MILLI 

main  program  calls  Ml  LLI ; 

4 

13 

MILLI 

PSHA 

save  A  register  in  stack; 

2 

15 

LDAA 

#162 

decimal  162  loop  count; 

162  x  2 

339 

Ml  LOOP 

DECA 

count  decremented  and  tested 

162x  4 

987 

BNE 

Ml  LOOP 

to  keep  loop  going  on; 

4 

991 

BRA 

NEXT 

time  wasting  null  branch; 

4 

995 

NEXT 

PULA 

restore  A  from  stack; 

5 

1000 

RTS 

back  to  the  caller; 

88 


*  ijt  JJC  3JC  3|C  3»C  Jj(  jjc  5JC  * 


LASER  DISCHARGE  CAP 

New  Laser  Discharge  Cap  by  Sangamo 
Rated  40  uf  at  3,000  voJts. 

Ideal  for  photo  flash,  Lasers  and  filters. 
For  filtering  you  de-rate  to  2,000  volts. 
What  a  deal  for  Linears.  Our  price  is 
approx.  1/3  regular  cost  of  this  brand 
new  high  energy  storage  capacitor. 

Ship  wgt.  6  lbs.     SP-184 

SP-184        $25  each    5/$112 


Ml    * 


! 


"SStfln^'V' 


COMPUTER  TAPE  DECK 

Reel  to  reel  cassette  computer  tape  deck.  Servo  motor  on 
each  spindle.  Dual  record  &  playback  heads,  read  after 
write  function.  Search  capability  3  x  10°  bits  in  less  than 
1  minute.  Speed  1,000  characters/second.  Cassette  capa- 
bility 300,000  characters.  From  used  equipment  by  Viatron 
No  electronics  but  with  heads,  motors,  special  micro  switch. 

Upgrade  your  mini  computer  with  this  bargain.  Only  100 

available  and  this  will  be  a  speedy 
sellout.    Comes  with  some  data. 


SP-202  $25.00  each 
5  for  $100.00 

3  lb  ea. 


k««™:«k* 


MEMORY  SYSTEM  $125.00 

New  memory  system  by  Honeywell,  small  .  .  . 
measures  only  9x4x1  inches.  1024  core  memory, 
1024  words  with  8,9,10  bits/word.  Random  access, 
with  all  logic,  register,  timing,  control,  core  select  and 
sense  functions  in  one  package.  New,  booklet  of 
schematics  and  data.  Looks  like  a  good  beginning  for 
a  mini-computer.  Limited  supply  on  hand. 
Ship  wgt  3  lbs.     #SP-79    $125.00 


1,000  mF 

15  volt 

$  .35 

2,000  nF 

35  volt 

1.00 

2,000 

15 

.50 

19,500 

25 

$2.50 

1,000 

25 

.70 

12,000 

40 

2.50 

3,000 

25 

1.00 

3,900 

50 

2.00 

1,000 

35 

.80 

22,000 

75 

3.25 

COMPUTER 
CAPS 
BRAND 
NEW 


CORE  MEMORY 

Another  brand  new  memory,  ultra  small.  Measures  only  4x4  inches 
with  format  on  one  plane  of  32  x  32  x  16  (16,384).  Only  about  35 
units  of  this  on  hand. 
#SP-81 $20.00 


SANDERS  720  KEYBOARD $40.00 


yffeMi^2. 


FREE  CATALOG 

Please  add  shipping  cost  on  above. 

MESHNA  P0  Bx  62  E.  Lynn  Mass.  01904 


You'll  Want  to  Nybble 
at  these  Byte  Books 

Where  does  the  editor  of  a  computer  magazine  turn  to  when  he  must 
verify  some  author's  hardware  design?  Information  on  a  75450 
interface  gate,  or  a  74147  priority  encoder  circuit  does  not  spring  forth 
by  magic.  Checking  the  information  supplied  by  authors  is  part  of 
BYTE's  quality  control  program. 
When  you  build  a  project,  you  need  this  same  sort  of  information.  All  you  find  in  the  advertisements  for  parts  are 
mysterious  numbers  identifying  the  little  beasties  . . .  hardly  the  sort  of  information  which  can  be  used  to  design  a 
custom  logic  circuit.  You  can  find  out  about  many  of  the  numbers  by  using  the  information  found  in  these  books.  No 
laboratory  bench  is  complete  without  an  accompanying  library  shelf  filled  with  references  -  and  this  set  of  Texas 
Instruments  engineering  manuals  plus  Don  Lancaster's  TTL  Cookbook  will  provide  an  excellent  starting  point  or 
addition  to  your  personal  library. 


•  The  TTL  Cookbook  by  Don  Lancaster,  published  by  Howard 
W.  Sams,  Indianapolis,  Indiana.  Start  your  quest  for  data  here  with 
Don's  tutorial  explanations  of  what  makes  a  TTL  logic  design  tick. 
335  pages,  $8.95  postpaid. 

•  The  Supplement  to  The  TTL  Data  Book  for  Design  Engi- 
neers, by  Texas  Instruments  Incorporated.  What  happens  when 
you  can't  find  a  7400  series  device  listed  in  The  Data  Book  for 
Design  Engineers?  Before  you  start  screaming  and  tearing  your 
hair  out  in  frustration,  turn  to  the  Supplement.  The  Supplement 
has  400  pages  of  additional  information  including  a  comprehensive 
index  to  both  TTL  Data  Book  volumes.  To  be  complete  (and  keep 
your  hair  in  place  and  vocal  cords  intact)  you'd  best  order  the 
supplement  at  $1 .95  to  accompany  the  main  volume. 

•  The  Transistor  and  Diode  Data  Book  for  Design  Engineers, 

by  Texas  Instruments,  Incorporated.  You'd  expect  a  big  fat  data 
book  and  a  wide  line  of  diodes  and  transistors  from  a  company 
which  has  been  around  from  the  start  of  semiconductors.  Well,  its 
available  in  the  form  of  this  1248  page  manual  from  T.I.  which 
describes  the  characteristics  of  over  800  types  of  transistors  and 
over  500  types  of  silicon  diodes.  This  book  covers  the  T.I.  line  of 
low  power  semiconductors  (1  Watt  or  less).  You  won't  find  every 
type  of  transistor  or  diode  in  existence  here,  but  you'll  find  most 
of  the  numbers  used  in  switching  and  amplifying  circuits.  Order 
your  copy  today,  only  $4.95  postpaid. 


•  The  Semiconductor  Memory  Data  Book  for  Design  Engi- 
neers, by  Texas  Instruments,  Incorporated.  Don't  forget  the 
importance  of  memories  to  your  systems.  Refer  to  this  272  page 
manual  to  find  out  about  the  T.I.  versions  of  many  of  the  popular 
random  access  memories  and  read  only  memories.  Order  your 
personal  copy  today,  only  $2.95  postpaid. 

•  The  Linear  and  Interface  Circuits  Data  Book  for  Design 
Engineers,  by  Texas  Instruments  Incorporated.  When  you  run 
across  one  of  those  weird  numbers  like  75365  the  immediate 
frustration  problem  occurs  again.  What  kind  of  gate  could  that  be? 
We  won't  tell  in  this  ad,  but  you  can  find  out  by  reading  the 
specifications  in  The  Linear  and  Interface  Circuits  Data  Book  for 
Design  Engineers.  You  can  interface  your  brain  to  the  72xxx 
(linear)  and  75xxx  (interface)  series  of  functions  by  ordering  your 
copy  of  this  688  page  manual  at  only  $3.95  postpaid. 

•  The  TTL  Data  Book  for  Design  Engineers,  by  Texas 
Instruments  Incorporated.  How  does  an  engineer  find  out  about 
the  TTL  circuits?  He  reads  the  manufacturer's  literature.  This  640 
page  beauty  covers  the  detailed  specs  of  most  of  the  7400  series 
TTL  logic  devices.  No  experimenter  working  with  TTL  has  a 
complete  library  without  The  TTL  Data  Book  for  Design 
Engineers.  Order  yours  today,  only  $3.95  postpaid. 


Caution:  Heavy  Reading 

Buyers  of  these  books  should  be  cautioned:  heavy  reading  will  be  required.  These  books  are  so 
filled  with  information  that  they  weigh  in  at  a  total  of  about  190  ounces  (5387  grams).  On  the  basis  of 
sheer  mass,  these  books  have  got  to  be  the  bargain  of  the  century.  Make  sure  that  you  use  a 
structurally  sound  book  shelf  and  above  all  avoid  dropping  one  of  these  books  on  your  foot.  But  the 
mass  of  these  books  doesn't  affect  the  bargain:  we  pay  postage  on  all  orders  shipped  to  addresses  in 
the  USA  and  Canada,  so  the  prices  you  see  are  the  prices  you  pay.  (That's  only  $.005  per  gram  on  the 
average.) 


TTL  Cookbook  @  $8.95 

TTL  Data  Book  @  $3.95 

Supplement  to  TTL  Data  Book  @  $1 .95 

Linear  and  Interface  Circuits  @  $3.95 

Semiconductor  Memory  Data  @  $2.95 

Transistor  and  Diode  Data  Book  @  $4.95 


Send  to:    Name 


Address 


City 


State 


Zip 


BITE 


PETERBOROUGH,  NH   03458 


□  Check  enclosed 

□  Bill  MC  # 

□  Bill  BA# 

Signature 


Exp.  Date. 
Exp.  Date. 


90 


Join  SCCS 

NOW!! 


The  Southern  California  Computer 
Society  is  a  non-profit,  international 
association  whose  purpose  is  to  promote 
and  encourage  a  community  interest  in 
the  computer  arts  and  sciences.  Of  par- 
ticular interest  is  the  application  of  the 
computer  to  education  and  the  social, 
scientific  and  environmental  problems  of 
society. 

Formed  in  June  1975  by  a  handful 
of  hobbyists  and  experimentalists,  the 
society  has  grown  rapidly  to  include  700 
consumers,  amateurs  and  professionals. 
The  society  serves  as  a  focal  point  through  which 
computer  buffs  meet,  learn  and  share  common  interest  and  needs. 

WHAT  CAN  SCCS  DO    FOR   YOU? 

•  Frequent  meetings  for  exchange  of  information  and  computer  equipment. 

•  A  magazine  (SCCS     INTERFACE)     communicating  topics  and  news  of  interest 

to  all   members  in  the  community  and  their  local  organization  activities. 

•  Classes  on   programming,   building  computers  and   general   use  of  computers. 

•  Informal    technical    assistance   and    advice   on    anything    related   to   computers. 

•  Consumer  cooperative  purchasing  plans. 

•  A   center  under  development  with    library,   computer  center  and  laboratoty. 

•  Receive  'Interface'—  a  monthly  publication  for  the  hobbyist  and  experimentalist. 

WHO  SHOULD  JOIN  SCCS? 

•  Anyone  who  is  interested  in  computers  as  a  hobby. 

•  Anyone  who  wants  to  be  introduced  to  the  world  of  computers    (but  doesn't 

know  where  to  start). 

•  Anyone  who  has  computer  related  talents  to  share. 


DON'T  MISS  THE 

NEXT  ISSUE  OF 

INTERFACE 


JOIN  NOW*  •  • 


MEMBERSHIP  FORM 

SOUTHERN   CALIFORNIA   COMPUTER    SOCIETY 

P.O.  BOX   987 

SOUTH   PASADENA,   CA   91030 

(213)   682-3108 


NAME. 


I    ADDRESS 
I 

|    CITY    


STATE_ 


_ZIP 


HOME  PHONE 
BUSINESS  PHONE 
DUES:     S10.00/YEAR 


PLEASE  PRINT  PLAINLY 


•     MAKE  CHECK  PAYABLE  TO:  SOUTHERN  CALIFORNIA  COMPUTER  SOCIETY 


BOOK  REVIEWS 


Computer  Models  of  Thought  and  Language 
edited  by  Roger  C.  Schank  and  Kenneth 
Mark  Colby.  Published  in  1973  by  W.H. 
Freeman  and  Company,  San  Francisco  CA. 

Some  of  the  most  difficult  problems  and 
the  most  exciting  research  areas  in  computer 
science  are  those  which  come  under  the 
heading  of  artificial  intelligence.  Contrary  to 
the  layman's  science  fiction  imagery  con- 
jured by  the  name,  artificial  intelligence  is  a 
serious  branch  of  research  in  the  computer 
sciences.  Computer  Models  of  Thought  and 
Action  is  a  collection  of  papers  by  10 
different  authors  active  in  the  Al  field.  It  is  a 
book  which  requires  serious  reading  and  is 
best  approached  by  a  person  who  has  some 
experience  in  computer  science  and  pro- 
gramming areas  to  act  as  a  guide  to  under- 
standing the  material.  To  quote  from  the 
editor's  preface: 

"The  intent  of  this  book  is  to  describe 
attempts  to  model  human  psychological 
processes  on  a  computer.  Over  the  past 
ten  years  the  field  of  Artificial  Intelli- 
gence (Al)  has  become  a  recognized 
discipline  in  the  academic  and  industrial 
communities.  Much  of  the  work  in  Al  has 
been  conceived  to  develop  intelligent 
machines  without  claiming  that  the  proc- 
esses model  human  thought  processes. 
Within  Al,  psychology  and  linguistics, 
however,  there  are  growing  groups  of 
people  concerned  with  representing 
human  thought  processes  in  the  form  of 
computer  programs." 

The  content  of  the  book  reflects  this  edi- 
torial goal. 

The  introduction  to  the  book  is  an 
excellent  review  article  by  Allen  Newell, 
entitled  "Artificial  Intelligence  and  the  Con- 
cept of  Mind."  In  this  article  is  found  an 


excellent  introduction  to  the  field  of  artifi- 
cial intelligence.  The  author  provides  a  dis- 
cussion of  three  different  views  of  the 
artificial  intelligence  field:  Al  as  the  explora- 
tion of  intellectual  functions;  Al  as  the 
science  of  weak  methods;  and  Al  as  theoreti- 
cal psychology.  After  treating  these  views  of 
different  approaches  to  Al,  the  article  con- 
cludes on  a  philosophical  note  with  a  treat- 
ment of  several  questions  on  the  nature  of 
mind. 

Then  the  book  turns  to  the  subject  of 
natural  language  models.  The  idea  of  a 
computer  which  understands  natural 
languages  (like  English)  is  an  old  science 
fiction  theme.  In  this  section  of  the  book  are 
found  four  detailed  articles  on  theoretical 
and  applied  research  into  natural  language 
analysis  by  computers: 

"Semantic  Networks:  Their  Computation 
and  Use  for  Understanding  English  Sen- 
tences," by  R.F.  Simmons. 

"An  Artificial  Intelligence  Approach  to 
Machine  Translation,"  by  Yorick  Wilks. 

"A  Procedural  Model  of  Language  Under- 
standing," by  Terry  Winograd. 

"Identification  of  Conceptualizations 
Underlying  Natural  Language,"  by  Roger 
C.  Schank. 

Here  is  a  body  of  information  on  both 
theory  and  practice  of  natural  language 
problems,  information  which  is  fundamental 
to  work  in  these  areas. 

Following  the  section  on  analysis  and 
utilization  of  information  found  in  natural 
language  situations,  the  emphasis  of  the 
book  turns  to  models  of  belief  systems.  The 
purpose  of  a  belief  system  as  presented  in 
"Simulations  of  Belief  Systems"  by  Kenneth 
Mark  Colby  is  to  help  explain  the  nature  of 
human  beliefs  by  constructing  a  computer 


92 


A  Lesson  in  Economics 


What  happens  when  a  good  becomes  so 
desirable  and  sought  after  that  many  people 
want  to  have  it?  Unless  an  ample  supply  is 
forthcoming,  the  price  can  and  must  go  up 
(political  fiat  to  the  contrary  notwith- 
standing). Recently  we  wondered  why  one 
distributor  kept  asking  us  for  more  and  more 
of  BYTE  Number  1.  He  was  very  insistent, 
and  spent  several  transcontinental  telephone 
calls  urging  us  (in  vain)  to  send  him  more  of 
BYTE's  inaugural  issue. 

We  found  out  recently,  thanks  to  several 
callers,  that  this  fellow  was  selling  BYTE's 
Number  1  issue  for  $15.00  each,  since 
everybody  wants  one  and  the  supply  is  very 
limited.  Of  course  he  made  a  temporary 
windfall  profit  on  his  early  investment  in  a 
supply  of  the  new  magazine.  He  paid  what 
everyone  else  did  who  purchased  a  bulk 
shipment  of  the  then  unknown  magazine. 
There  is  a  law  of  economics  that  price  rises 
when  supplies  are  tight  —  it  is  as  much  a 
folly  to  fight  such  a  trend  as  it  is  to  attempt 


to  legislate  Pi  =  3.0000.  .  .  Many  thanks  to 
Adam  Smith  and  Ludwig  von  Mises  for 
tipping  us  off  about  the  law  of  supply  and 
demand,  confirmed  again  by  this  laboratory 
experiment. 

The  point  of  mentioning  this  is  to  put  to 
rest  rumors  about  our  supposed  reprinting  of 
the  early  issues  of  BYTE.  First,  we  are  not 
planning  to  reprint  BYTE  magazine  issues  as 
magazines,  ever.  You'll  see  individual  articles 
reappearing  in  books  of  selected  reprints 
which  we  plan  to  publish.  However  our  early 
supporters  will  see  their  confidence 
rewarded  as  the  price  of  the  first  issue 
collector's  item  rises  over  the  years,  since  we 
will  never  reprint  it  as  a  magazine.  Our 
policy  is  now  and  will  continue  to  be  one  of 
matching  our  press  runs  to  the  subscription 
and  newstand  demand,  with  very  few  extra 
issues  kept  available.  If  you  want  to  keep  up 
with  this  fast  moving  field,  you'll  have  to 
keep  your  subscription  current. 


Cut 

Tear 

Address    . 

1     City      .... 

State 

•  Zip 

City      

State 

■Zip 

1     DBILLME 

□  Check  for  $12  enclosed 

D  Bill  BankAmericard  or  MasterCharge  # 

□BILL  ME 

□  Check  for  $1 2  enclosed 

□  Bill  BankAmericard  or  MasterCharge  # 

r~ 

Shred 

Rip 

State 

•Zip 

1     City      

City      .... 

State 

•  Zip 

1     QBILLME 

□  Check  for  $12  enclosed 

□Bill  BankAmericard  or  MasterCharge  #  . 

□  BILL  ME 

□  Check  for  $1 2  enclosed 

□  Bill  BankAmericard  or  MasterCharge  # 

•  BYTE  •  70  Main  St  •  Peterborough   NH  03458 


93 


system  to  simulate  the  process  of  judging 
credibility  of  statements.  On  a  slightly  dif- 
ferent theme,  Robert  P.  Abelson  describes 
work  with  a  computer  simulation  of  the 
psychological  characteristics  of  the  "true 
believer."  The  first  result  of  the  simulation 
was  "the  Ideology  Machine,"  a  program 
developed  to  simulate  attitudes  characteris- 
tic of  the  true  believer  given  a  specific  input 
model.  The  discussion  of  that  model  is  a 
brief  introduction  to  an  extensive  treatment 
of  a  redesigned  model  which  grew  out  of  the 
first  attempt. 

The  final  section  of  the  book  is  devoted 
to  models  of  memory  and  cognition.  This 
includes  "The  Memory  We  Must  Have"  by 
Earl  Hunt,  "In  Defense  of  Ad  Hoc  Systems" 
by  Robert  K.  Lindsay,  and  "A  Model  for  the 
Encoding  of  Experiential  Information"  by 
Joseph  D.  Becker. 

The  art  of  reading  a  book  is  one  which 
requires  careful  thought  and  analysis  by  the 
reader  if  full  utilization  of  the  information  is 
to  be  obtained.  Computer  Models  of 
Thought  and  Language  is  a  book  which  is 
designed  for  an  advanced  undergraduate  or 
graduate  level  course  in  computer  science, 
and  thus  requires  full  use  of  reading  skills.  It 
is  not  an  easy  book  to  read,  and  integration 
of  its  information  will  require  careful 
thought  on  the  part  of  the  reader.  But  given 
these  cautions,  the  book  is  an  excellent 
source  for  some  of  the  most  sophisticated 
and  interesting  applications  of  computer 
technology.  cth 


When  Harlie  Was  One  by  David  Gerrold, 
Ballantine  Books,  1972,  279  pp.  paper- 
bound,  $1.50. 

David  Gerrold  will  be  familiar  to  Star 
Trek  (the  series,  not  the  game)  fans  as  the 
author  of  The  World  of  Star  Trek  and  the 
"Trouble  With  Tribbles"  episode.  David 
Gerrold  is  also  the  author  of  one  of  the  best 
stories  on  artificial  intelligence  to  date. 

David  Auberson,  the  artificial  intelligence 
psychologist  in  the  novel,  is  instrumental  in 
bringing  the  computer  to  life.  (Care  to 
define  life,  anyone?)  The  machine  is  a  little 
different  from  conventional  computers  in 
that  it  has  more  than  two  states  (0  or  1 )  to 
represent  a  decision.  There  is  yes  and  no,  of 
course,  but  with  many  levels  of  maybe  in 
between.  The  pun  on  Wuman  A  nalog  /?obot, 
Life  /nput  Equivalents  (HARLIE),  i.e., 
David's  son,  is  purely  intentional. 

As  Harlie  grows  up  (up?)  he  learns  to 
transfer  information  via  a  communications 
network  and  causes  some  very  interesting 
mistakes  to  be  made  in  other  computers. 
Some  of  the  most  interesting  conversations 


in  science  fiction  occur  between  the 
psychologist  and  Harlie,  especially  on  such 
issues  as  love,  death,  the  impact  of  com- 
puters on  society  and  the  impact  of  society 
on  a  poor  thinking  machine. 

When  Harlie  Was  One  is  one  of  the  most 
delightful  novels  about  computers  around. 
Anyone  even  slightly  connected  to  com- 
puters should  find  this  book  very 
entertaining. 

The  Shockwave  Rider  by  John  Brunner, 
Harper  &  Row,  1975,  246pp.,  $8.95. 

John  Brunner  is  an  outstanding  science 
fiction  author  (Stand  On  Zanzibar)  who 
takes  the  study  of  Alvin  Toffler's  Future 
Shock  very  much  to  heart,  creating  a  future 
that  is  very  fast  and  media  bound.  His  recent 
novel,  The  Shockwave  Rider,  is  a  part  of  this 
vision  that  computer  oriented  readers  should 
find  very  interesting.  The  book  reveals  a  near 
future  that  has  a  complex  computer  network 
covering  the  North  American  continent  with 
interconnected  government  and  industrial 
data  centers  monitoring  all  of  the  financial, 
transportation,  and  status  transactions  of 
individual  citizens.  Access  to  this  informa- 
tion is  available  if  you  know  how  to  get  it, 
and  most  citizens  have  become  paranoid 
from  knowing  the  information  is  there,  but 
not  knowing  who  will  see  it. 

Our  hero,  a  very  bright  specialized  stu- 
dent with  a  high  aptitude  for  programming, 
"drops  out"  and  avoids  the  tracking  and 
monitoring  of  the  network  by  learning  to 
change  his  identity  completely  by  assigning 
himself  new  status,  salary,  and  professions 
through  some  complicated  maneuvers  with 
network  terminals.  His  travels  lead  him  to  a 
post  disaster  scene  of  the  west  coast  area 
where  the  predicted  earthquake  has  finally 
toppled  the  San  Andreas  fault.  Isolated  areas 
of  the  coast  are  still  not  under  the  influence 
of  the  network,  and  some  of  his  talent  is 
used  by  playing  "fencing,"  a  computer  game 
of  skill. 

Our  hero  has  the  last  laugh  by  writing 
"tapeworm"  programs  that  grow  through 
the  network  and  are  detectable,  but  very 
difficult  to  stop.  One  such  tapeworm  causes 
very  embarrassing  government  data  to  be 
displayed  in  front  of  all  citizens.  Hmm  .  .  . 
Computers  for  social  reform,  anybody? 

The  Shockwave  Rider  is  very  well  written 
and  should  provide  a  very  interesting 
scenario  to  those  interested  in  issues  of  data 
access,  invasion  of  privacy,  etc.  In  other 
words,  just  about  anybody. 


Gary  Liming 

3152  Santiago  Drive 

Florrisant  MO  63033 


94 


Continued  from  page  8 


own  back  yard  also  argue  for  an  organization 
which  is  national  in  scope.  Is  it  time  for  such 
an  organization  in  this  area  of  small  scale 
computing?  Most  likely  yes:  There  is  already 
indication  that  some  form  of  nationwide 
affiliation  is  beginning  to  form. 

I  refer  to  that  contradiction  in  terms,  the 
Delaware  Valley  (i.e.,  Philadelphia  area) 
chapter  of  the  Southern  California  Com- 
puter Society,  which  is  mentioned  in  the 
Clubs  and  Newsletters  section  of  this  issue  of 
BYTE.  (It  would  seem  strange  and  somehow 
provincial  for  an  organization  aspiring  to 
nationwide  scope  to  retain  the  name 
Southern  California  Computer  Society.)  The 
idea  is  right,  even  if  an  appropriate  name  is 
not  yet  available.  From  the  start,  the  people 
who  have  been  running  the  Southern  Califor- 
nia Computer  Society  have  been  doing  an 
excellent  job  with  the  programs  which  make 
up  an  active  organization  of  this  sort.  This 
evaluation  is  based  upon  the  SCCS  Interface 
newsletters  and  upon  phone  conversations 
with  individuals  who  are  involved  with 
SCCS. 

Advantages  of  a  Nationwide  Affiliation 

A  computer  society  with  nationwide 
membership  and  scope  of  operations  can 
contribute  the  same  sort  of  benefits  which  a 
local  organization  can,  but  the  scope  of  the 
operation  can  produce  some  extra  effects  as 
well. 

For  instance,  the  idea  of  informational 
activities  and  seminars  based  upon  taped 
lectures  works  better  if  coordinated  through 
a  nationwide  organization.  In  my  phone 
conversation  with  an  SCCS  person  recently 
this  was  mentioned  as  one  of  the  programs 
that  was  envisioned  for  the  national  organi- 
zation. A  nationwide  organization  can  cata- 
log and  distribute  tapes  of  lectures  and  talks, 
thus  making  available  talent  in  all  affiliated 
computer  groups. 

A  national  personal  computing  society 
could  also  be  used  to  centrally  coordinate 
numerous  things  ranging  from  the  planning 
of  manufacturers'  tours  and  road  shows  to 
the  continued  nationwide  group  purchasing 
items  like  LSI-11  computers  and  hard  copy 
terminals.  The  national  personal  computing 
society  could  also  help  coordinate  standards 
for  media  interchange  and  data  formats 
which  are  independent  of  the  computer 
system  being  used.  Working  through  such  an 
organization,  it  might  even  be  possible  to 
arrive  at  some  standards  for  computer 
languages  appropriate  for  small  scale  com- 
puting's system  programming  needs. 

Then  of  course  there  is  the  usual  inter- 


personal friendship  value  of  such  an  organi- 
zation. As  a  friendship  signal,  such  an 
organization  would  certainly  require  some 
form  of  logo  which  could  be  used  univer- 
sally. In  decal  form  it  could  be  applied  to 
automobile  windows;  in  lapel  pin  form  it 
could  be  used  to  "break  the  ice"  in  meeting 
individuals  outside  of  society  meetings. 

This  is  by  no  means  a  complete  list  of  all 
the  possibilities  inherent  in  this  idea  of  a 
national  personal  computing  society.  The 
full  development  of  the  idea  requires  more 
input  and  thought  than  I  could  possibly  put 
into  this  short  essay  on  the  subject.  My  net 
conclusion  is  that  readers  interested  in  form- 
ing a  computer  group,  and  existing  computer 
groups,  should  contact  the  SCCS  at: 

Southern  California  Computer  Society 

PO  Box  987 

South  Pasadena  CA   91030 

The  SCCS  should  be  able  to  help  get  such  a 
club  started,  and  possibly  will  already  have  a 
local  contact  in  your  area  if  you  are  not  the 
first  to  inquire." 

October    BOMB  Results 

The  winner  of  the  $50  prize  for  the  most 
popular  article  in  the  October  1975  BYTE  is 
Don  Lancaster  for  his  article  "Ins  and  Outs 
of  Volatile  Memory."  Very  close  behind  in 
the  voting  were  Dan  Fylstra's  "Son  of 
Motorola"  and  Peter  Helmers'  "Versatile 
ROM." 


BOMB:  byte 


's  Ongoing  Monitor  Box 

BYTE  would  like  to  know  how  readers  evaluate  the  efforts  of  the  authors 
whose  blood,  sweat,  twisted  typewriter  keys,  smoking  ICs  and  esoteric  software 
abstractions  are  reflected  in  these  pages.  BYTE  will  pay  a  $50  bonus  to  the  author 
who  receives  the  most  points  in  this  survey  each  month.  (Editor  Helmers  is  not 
eligible  for  the  bonus.) 

• Articles  you  like  most  get  10  points,  articles  you  like  least  get  0  (or 
negative)  points  -  with  intermediate  values  according  to  your  personal  scale  of 
preferences,  integers  only. 

•  Only  one  entry  per  reader. 

•  Fi'W  out  your  ratings,  and  return  it  as  promptly  as  possible  along  with  your 
reader  service  requests  and  survey  answers. 

Page  LIKED 

No.  Article 

18  Grappel:  My  Dear  Aunt  Sally 

26  Maurer:  Processing  Algebraic  Expressions 

32    Liming:  Data  Paths 

42  Vice:  The  New  Altair  680 

46  Mclntire:  How  to  Save  the  BYTEs 

50   Kay:  More  on  SWTPC  6800  System 

54  Gray:  LEDs  Light  Up  Your  Logic 

58  Walde:  Build  a  TTL  Pulse  Catcher 

62   Lancaster:  TV  Color  Graphics 

74  Warren:  View  From  Silicon  Valley 

76   Rush:  Could  a  Computer  Take  Over? 

86   Helmers:  Joysticks  and  Slide  Pots 


LEAST 

BEST 

0   12  3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

0   12  3 

4 

5 

6 

1 

8 

9 

10 

0   12  3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

0   12  3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

0   12  3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

0   12  3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

0   12  3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

0   12  3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

0   12  3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

0   12  3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

0   12  3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

0   12  3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

95 


BOTE 


reader 
mvi 


To  get  further  information  on  the  products  advertised  in  this 
issue  of  BYTE  merely  tear,  rip,  or  snip  out  this  advertiser  index, 
fill  out  the  data  at  the  bottom  of  the  page,  circle  the  appropriate 
numbers,  and  send  the  works  to  BYTE,  70  Main  St,  Peter- 
borough NH  03458.  Readers  get  extra  Brownie  Points  for 
sending  for  information  since  this  encourages  advertisers  to  keep 
using  BYTE  —  which  in  turn  brings  you  a  bigger  BYTE. 


ADVERTISER  INDEX 


A1 

ACM  cm 

A39 

Advanced  Data  Sciences  61 

BYTE's  Books  90 

BYTE  Subscription  93 

A37 

Celdat  Design  Associates  75 

A43 

Centi-Byte  73 

A6 

Continental  Specialties  9 

A41 

Cromenco  31 

A7 

Delta  Electronics  85 

A8 

Dutronics  83 

A9 

Godbout  5 

A12 

IMS  Associates  59 

A38 

Intelligent  Systems  71 

A44 

Interface  91 

A13 

International  Electronics  Unltd.  81 

A15 

James  Electronics  79 

A18 

Meshna  89 

A19 

Micro  Digital  37 

A21 

MITSCIV.3,  13,35 

A22 

National  Multiplex  65 

A40 

Ohio  Scientific  Instruments  73 

A24 

Processor  Technology  48,  49 

A26 

Scelbi  Computer  Consulting  7 

A29 

Southwest  Technical  Products  CM 

A30 

Sphere  Corporation  17 

A14 

Systems  Research  57 

A36 

Techtra  40 

A32 

Tri  Tek  75 

A34 

Wave  Mate  1 5 

A42 

Wintek61 

Reader's  Service 

BYTE 

Green   Publishing    Inc 

70   Main   St 

Peterborough    NH   03458 

Please  print  or  type. 
Name 


FEBRUARY  1976 

BYTE  acquired  via 

□  Subscription 

□  Newsstand 
n  Stolen 


Address 


City 


State 


_Zip_ 


Coupon  expires  in  60  days  . 


THE 


BITE 

QUESTIONNAIRE 


BYTE  is  dedicated  to  the  needs  of  its  readership. 
In  order  to  better  gauge  matters  of  editorial  policy 
and  content,  as  well  as  to  give  our  advertisers  some 
"hard  facts,"  we  publish  this  questionnaire. 

Indicate  your  familiarity  with  computer  languages. 

Computer  Language         Use  it.  Know  of  it.  Never  heard  of  it. 

Assembly  Languages 

BASIC 

COBOL 

FORTRAN 

PL/1 

BLISS 

PASCAL 

ALGOL 

XPL/PLM 

Other: 


What  is  your  equipment? 
Television  Interface 


Processor 
Memories 


Audio  Interface 

Bulk  Memory 

Other 


What  software  do  you  have  for  your  machine? 


Do  you  read  science  fiction?  Who  is  your  favorite  author? 


How  did  you  find  out  about  the  world  of  small  computers? 


Feel  free  to  photocopy  this  page  if  you  wish  to  keep  your  B  YTE  intact. 


96 


CALL  FOR  PAPERSACM  '76 
OCTOBER  20-22.1976... 


HOUSTON 


Our  1976  Annual  Conference  will  be  held  October 
20  -  22  in  Houston.  We  feel  that  it  will  be  one  of 
the  most  relevant  ACM  conferences  ever  held,  both 
for  the  practicing  professional  and  the  researcher.  The 
conference  facilities  in  downtown  Houston's  Regency 
Hyatt  House  will  be  outstanding.  You  will  find  that 
ACM  '76  will  be  a  place  where  you  can  enjoy  your- 
self, renew  old  acquaintances,  make  some  new  ones, 
and  participate  in  a  serious  technical  discussion  of  the 
problems  and  potential  of  our  industry.  Plan  to  attend. 

Olin  Johnson 

General  Chairman,  ACM  '76 


about  the  conference 


You  are  invited  to  submit  a  paper  on  any  aspect  of 
computer  research,  development,  or  implementation. 
High  quality  papers  of  a  theoretical,  state-of-the-art  or 
tutorial  nature  are  welcome.  The  technical  program  for 
ACM  '76  will  again  be  organized  around  the  ACM 
Special  Interest  Groups,  although  additional  sessions 
will  be  provided  for  papers  of  general  interest  or  those 
not  related  to  any  SIG. 

Papers  must  not  have  been  previously  presented  or 
published;  they  should  not  exceed  10  published  pages, 
including  a  100-word  abstract,  bibliography,  and  illus- 
trations; and  they  must  be  received  in  four  copies  by 
March  1,  1976.  All  papers  will  be  refereed  either  by  the 
SIG's  or  by  reviewers  selected  by  the  Technical  Pro- 
gram Committee.  Notification  of  acceptance  will  be 
made  by  May  1.  If  you  intend  to  submit  a  paper,  and 
we  sincerely  hope  that  you  do,  please  send  in  the 
coupon  below.  If  you  have  an  idea  for  a  good  session 
or  some  other  technical  program  idea,  please  do  the 

same   or   start    promoting  your  idea  in  your  SIG  

but  do  it  now!  Be  a  part  of  the  spirit  of  ACM  '76! 


about  the  technical  program 


ACM 


Be  a  part  of  the  "Spirit  of  ACM  '76' 


ASSOCIATION  for  COMPUTING   MACHINERY 
1976   ANNUAL   CONFERENCE 

Roger  W.  Elliott 

Technical  Program  Chairman,  ACM  '76 

Department  of  Industrial  Engineering 

Texas  A  &  M  University 

College  Station,  Texas   77843      (713)  845-5531 

Name  


. Phone 


Address  . 
City 


.  State. 


I I  I  intend  to  submit  a  technical  paper. 

Tentative  title 


.  SIG  (optional). 


I ]  I  am  enclosing  a  technical  program  suggestion. 

I I  Please  call  me.  I  would  like  to  discuss  an  idea  for  the  technical  program 


If  Iflapoleon  had  owned  an  Mltair. 


Things  might  have  turned  out  differently. 


