








Look to the name Walt Disney 
for the finest in family entertainment 






= Happy 


Years 





LE 


Happy 
Years 


A message from 

E. Cardon Walker, 
President and 

Chief Operating Ofticer 


COVER: Fireworks over 
Cinderella Castle in the Walt 
Disney World “Magic Kingdom” 
herald the beginning of 

Walt Disney Productions’ 
“Golden Anniversary.” 





i 









—. 





1926 — The “Alice Comedies" staff in tront 
of the old Hyperion Studio (top) — Rollin 
Hamilton, Roy O. Disney, Hugh Harman, 
Walt Disney, actress Margie Gay, Rudolf 
ising, Ub Iwerks, Walker Harman. 

Above, Walt and Roy Disney proudly 
display their first Academy Awards (1932) 
- an honorary Oscar tor the creation of 
Mickey Mouse and an award for the first 
color cartoon, “Flowers and Trees.” Disney 
lims and personnel have won a total of 


51 Academy Awards 1933 — This Emerson radio featuring 


Mickey Mouse is characteristic of early 
Disney merchandise items. “The Three 


Little Pigs,” (above, right) released during 1933 — An early poster for the cartoon 
the depths of the Depression, soon had short, “Mickey's Pal Pluto.” The Disneys 
everyone singing ‘Who's Afraid of the formed their own distribution company, 
Big Bad Wolt.” Buena Vista, twenty years later. 
1972 Walt Disney Productions 





—__———_ 





On October 16, 1973, we will celebrate the 50th Anniversary 
of the founding by Walt and Roy Disney of the business which 
is now Walt Disney Productions. On that date in 1923, Walt 
signed his first contract to produce “Alice Comedies” in 
California. 

(It is interesting to note that Walt and Roy, beginning with 
three employees on the payroll, produced more than 80 silent 
animated cartoons, most of them as part of the “Alice Com- 
edies” or the “Oswald the Rabbit” series, before the creation 
of Mickey Mouse in 1928.) 


In honor of this milestone, the Company has designated the 


entire calendar year 1973 as its 50th Anniversary, and per- 
haps, many of our stockholders and employees saw the 
spectacular Disney entry in the Rose Parade on New Year's 
Day, heralding this year-long celebration. 

On Sunday evening, January 21, our “Wonderful World of 
Disney” series on the NBC Television Network will present an 
hour-long “50th Anniversary” special, a nostalgic review of 
the Company's many timeless contributions to family enter- 
tainment throughout the years. 

A series of special “golden anniversary" events are being 
planned for Disneyland and Walt Disney World, including the 


dedication, in both theme parks, of the new Walt Disney Story. 


Presented by Gulf Oil Corporation, these exhibits will trace 
the Disney brothers’ lives from early childhood, utilizing both 
a wide screen motion picture and displays of memorabilia, 





1937 — Original artwork 
from the souvenir program 
for the first full-length 
animated feature, “Snow 
White and the Seven 
Dwarfs.” It premiered at the 
Carthay Circle Theater in 
Los Angeles on December 
21. Right, a mechanical 
bank manufactured at the 
peak of “Snow White's” 
popularity. 





including Walt’s international awards, original art work and 
photographs. 

(During the past three years, we have begun to formally 
organize the Walt Disney Archives, which will collect, preserve 
and make available for research the Company's history.) 

Numerous 50th Anniversary promotions are being mounted 
by virtually every division of the Company. As an example, 
our Music Company is planning to release a two-record set 
featuring the best performances of the best songs from Disney 
films throughout the years, almost 60 minutes of music priced 
to retail at only $3.98. Many major orchestras across the 
United States will stage live Disney Family Concerts honoring 
“50 Years of Fantasy.” 

The Company has entered into an agreement with the inter- 
nationally famous publishers of art books, Harry N. Abrams, 
Inc., to publish in the United States next summer “The Arts of 
Walt Disney, from Mickey Mouse to the Magic Kingdoms.”’ 
This deluxe edition will be a complete compilation of the story 
and artistic works of Walt Disney. 

Highlighting an exciting schedule of motion picture releases 
planned for 1973 will be the return of “Mary Poppins.” The 
winner of five Academy Awards and the most successful 
motion picture in Disney history, “Mary Poppins” will be 
reissued during the summer months. 

During Christmas, 1973, we will premiere the new animated 
feature, ‘‘Robin Hood,” which we feel is one of the very best 


1940 —"Fantasia,”’ released to reports that it was 
thirty years ahead of its time, is receiving critical 
acclaim today. The tilm has brought domestic 

film rentals of almost $3,000,000 in limited 
engagements during the past three years. These 
original clay models were used by the animators 
to gain perspective on the characters. 











full-length cartoons in the Company's history. ' 

On Tankini day, the famous Macy’s Parade in New 
York City will devote its entire pre-parade festivities, as we 
as a number of special entries, to a salute to the Disney 
organization. | 

Climaxing the year-long celebration will be a spectacular 
Disney half-time extravaganza to be staged in conjunction 
with the Orange Bowl classic on New Year's Day, 1974. 

In a certain sense, it is highly appropriate that such a mile- 
stone should be reached during the calendar year 1973, for 
the twelve months of fiscal 1972 could be viewed as the 
most important and productive period in the half-century his- 
tory of the Disney organization. 

The highlight, of course, was the fact that we were able to . 
successfully open Walt Disney World and train a work force in 
Florida that numbered as many as 12,500 employees during 
the peak summer months, gaining one full and vital year 
of operating experience. 

In California, it took the Company ten years to develop the 
marketing and operational programs which made Disneyland 
profitable on a year-round basis. In only one year in Florida, 
we believe we have gained the necessary experience to make 
Walt Disney World a very profitable operation. 

However, the greatest reward for the long run has been the 
overwhelming public acceptance of both theme parks. During 
a single year, Disneyland and Walt Disney World welcomed 
20,300,000 visitors, more than the total number of people who 





1953 — The True-Life Adventure, 
“Water Birds,” received this award 
from the Cannes International 

Film Festival. It is only one of the 
1,154 domestic and international 
awards won by Walt Disney and 
the Disney organization. 


attended all National League baseball games played during 
the same period, and almost twice as many as attended all the 
NFL football games played during the 1971 season. 


(We are pleased to report that, during October and Novem- 


ber, both theme parks recorded solid attendance increases 
over the similar period in fiscal 1972.) 

However, Walt Disney always felt that the most significant 
thing about the past was the experience and Preparation it 
gave his Company for the future; and in that spirit, we are 
moving forward agg ressively with new projects designed 
to expand our capacity and ability to provide our family audi- 
ence with the finest in recreation and entertainment. The 
following pages describe our plans in greater detail. 

In closing, | would like to express my thanks to all of our 
employees whose continued dedication enabled us to 
successfully meet the overwhelming challenges of the past 
year. The nearly 150 management personnel who transferred 
from Disneyland to Florida to create the nucleus of our Walt 
Disney World operating staff deserve particular recognition 
for their contributions in making possible the efficient and 
on-time opening of Walt Disney World. 


G Cahors W/ thay 








aain “few Svs 5. 





“Incredible. Absolutely incredible. It seems 
to go on forever, a limitless land of fantasy 
and sport,” wrote Wayne Warga of the Los 
Angeles Times Syndicate soon after Walt 
Disney World’s on-schedule opening in 
October, 1971. 

Building upon overwhelming visitor re- 
sponse and extensive coverage by literally 
hundreds of representatives of the news 
media, Walt Disney World has already be- 
come one of the world's most popular 
tourist attractions. 

On the basis of its first-year total of 
10,712,991 visitors from “outside its bor- 
ders,” the new “Vacation Kingdom” ranks 
sixth among the ‘‘nations”’ of the world in 
total tourist visitation, behind Spain, Italy, 
France, Canada and the United States, but 
ahead of Austria, Germany, the United 
Kingdom and all of the rest. 

In its first year, Walt Disney World 

Bese ee es tierce gi ct DEA DA recorded total gross revenues of 

oS Se oe ita RUSIS AoT TAR $139,000,000. 





THE CONTEMPORARY RESORT-HOTEL: 
1,057 guest rooms are available in this 
ultra-modern resort atmosphere. 3 














Since opening day, the demand for ac- 
commodations throughout central Florida 
has exceeded the supply. On site, our two 
theme resort-hotels, the Contemporary 
and the Polynesian Village, operated at 
near 100% capacity all year long. Our two 
hotels and the Fort Wilderness Camp- 
grounds together hosted 1,750,000 guests 
during the year. 

Cumulative projections of hotel occu- 
pancy are compiled for only six months 
into the future. However, as of December 
1, 1972, a total of 151,000 room-nights, 
or 79.2% of the total occupancy available 
at the Contemporary Resort-Hotel from 
December, 1972 through May, 1973, had 
already been sold. 75,700 room-nights, 
representing 84.8% of the total rooms 
available at the Polynesian Village, had 
been sold for the same period, and the 
months of April and May are considered 
to be the off-season. Reservation requests 
from the general public have been averag- 
ing 32,000 to 36,000 monthly by telephone 
and mail. 

Walt Disney World has also proven to be 
a highly popular convention destination. 
350 conventions, representing more than 
300,000 room-nights, have been booked 
for the hotels through 1975. 

The Orlando metropolitan area, which 
had only 5,850 hotel rooms little more than 
a year ago, now Claims a total of 22,700 
hotel-motel rooms either completed or 
under construction, with 14,000 others an- 
nounced for early construction. 

Recognizing, however, that the public 
will always prefer to stay within the ‘‘Vaca- 
tion Kingdom” site, the Company will soon 
begin architectural work on a third theme 
resort, the 500-room Asian Hotel. Con- 
struction is planned for 1974, with the 
formal opening to take place late that year. 

The capacity of the campgrounds has 
already been expanded several times. 

A total of 717 campsites will be available to 
Walt Disney World guests by March, 1973. 
Perhaps the greatest single challenge 

throughout 1972 was to conform opera- 
tional planning to the emerging attendance 
patterns, and to adjust, as rapidly as pos- 
sible, to new visitation levels, which ulti- 
mately exceeded by more than 700,000 the 
Company's most optimistic estimates. 





THE GOLF RESORT: Two 18-hole 
championship courses, the Magnolia 
and the Palm, are available to Walt 
Disney World guests year-round. These 
courses were the site of the second 
annual $150,000 Walt Disney World 
Professional Golf Championship, won 
tor the second straight year by Jack 
Nicklaus on December 3. 





$ S eE te ar ee rwubptaguet í 
{E OS St ee Se owwes SSS LT an 
-70 ,. ©? e e F 


PENGARNA TE 
; t= a ; 








OUTDOOR RECREATION: Swimming, boating, water-skiing, tennis, 
volleyball, badminton and a golt putting green are among the wide variely 
of recreational activities available at the Contemporary Resort-Hotel. 





FORT WILDERNESS: 717 campsites 
will be available to Walt Disney 
World guests by March, 1973. 


= h t we 


~ 4 a se . me te. a ze 
SDFG pe FES oS T ee» 
OP S ba - vyti fwn 


THE POLYNESIAN VILLAGE: Winding 
pathways through tropical gardens connect 
the Polynesian Village's seven “‘long- 
houses,” where 500 guest rooms look out on 
gardens, bays, beaches, and the waters of 
the Seven Seas Lagoon. Both resort-hotels 
operated at virtually 100% of capacity 
Tye throughout 1972. 





NEW ATTRACTIONS: 15 new, 26-passenger Swan aap come 
will soon be cruising the hub waterways. Right, the : u im 
Harbor House, a 500-seat, New England-styled restaurant, 

newly opened in Liberty Square. 








Oe me a pw em mg TE 
OM se eeeeereeeeeeesens se 


a 


t 


se, . 
a Pi eTA OS 
Tr ea aaa 


THE MAGIC KINGDOM: 
By the time our Florida 
theme park celebrated 
its first anniversary on 
October 1, 1972, more 
than 10,700,000 guests 
had passed through its 
turnstiles. 





































For example, additional transportation 
capacity was needed immediately between 
the Main Entrance and the Magic Kingdom 
theme park. By year end, ten 212-passen- 
ger monorail trains were in operation 
along with two 500-passenger, double- 
ended ferry boats, which now carry guests 
across the Seven Seas Lagoon. 

Not long after our October, 1971 open- 
ing, the Company recognized the need to 
operate and market the entire project, 
including the resort hotels, as a single unit, 
to consolidate such operations as food 
and merchandising, and of course, to con- 
struct additional restaurants and attrac- 
tions in the Magic Kingdom theme park. 

Nevertheless, it is a credit to the entire 
Walt Disney World staff that they were able 
to take command of the project so quickly. 

Near the end of the year, the efforts and 
expertise of our employees at both Disney- 
land and Walt Disney World were recog- 
nized by Institutions/Volume Feeding 
Magazine, which named Walt Disney Pro- 
ductions as the recipient of their third 
annual Changemaker Award. Calling the 
Disney organization “people pros,” the 
magazine said in part, “In the Magic King- 7 
dom of the entire Disney corporation, 
emphasis is always placed on the indi- 
vidual — whether he be guest or employee. 
It is this deep-rooted philosophy — origi- 
nating from Walt himself — firmly believed 
and carried out by management, that has 
been the key to success...” 

“This — all of this — is ‘imagineering.’ 

It's innovation. It's a fantasyland on the 
surface, but behind the scenes it is an effi- 
cient, profitable, benevolent operation. 
The people responsible are professionals 
— not necessarily food or hotel pros, but 
people pros. 

“Those who enter the Wonderful World 
of Disney — whether they be guest or 
employee — come out a little bit different. 
Happier. Jubilant, perhaps. They have an 
experience firmly embedded in their Mem- 
ory Factory. They’ve been part of the Total 
Show. Disney has changed them. Disney 
is a Changemaker.” 































f E aias 


A E E On 






“IF YOU HAD 
WINGS”: This free 
attraction, which 
opened in June, takes 
guests on a tour of 
the many Caribbean 
destinations 
accessible via 
Eastern Airlines. 















Continuing attendance patterns and dem- 
onstrated public demand at Walt Disney 
World have made it imperative that the 
Company move forward as rapidly as is 
prudent to build additional theme park 
attractions, accommodations, restaurants, 
shops, transportation and recreational 
areas. 

During the year, an orderly program of 
development was evolved which stretches 
into 1975 and beyond. This program also 
calls for additional utility capacity, admin- 
istrative and support facilities. 

All creative and architectural work on 
these projects is being done by the Com- 
pany's “Imagineering” staff at WED Enter- 
prises in Glendale, California, and our 
own Buena Vista Construction Company 
is supervising on-site construction. 

The following key elements highlight 
Walt Disney World’s expansion program: 


The Walt Disney Story A motion picture 
presented in twin, 300-seat theaters and 

a display of memorabilia will tell the fasci- 
nating life story of the Showman of the 
World. Now under construction at the Gulf 
Hospitality House on Main Street, the 
exhibit will open by Easter. 


“Magic Carpet ’Round The World” 

A new Circle-Vision 360° production on an 
international scale has just been com- 
pleted for the Monsanto Company. Soon 
to premiere, the film will surround its audi- 
ences with many of the world’s greatest 
scenic wonders in a kaleidoscopic travel 
experience. 


The Richard F. Irvine Sternwheeler This 
re-creation of a 400-passenger river boat 
which once steamed up the Missouri River 
will be plying the Rivers of America by 
Easter. 


Tom Sawyer’s Island Swaying suspen- 
sion bridges, undulating barrel bridges 
and winding forest trails lead to an endless 
series of boyhood adventures based upon 
the stories of Mark Twain. Guests will 
travel to the island on the Rivers of Amer- 
ica via rafts from Frontierland. Under 
construction since last fall, the island will 
open to the public next summer. 


Fort Wilderness Early in 1973, a narrow- 
gauge steam railroad with Victorian style 
open-air cars will begin transporting 
guests along a three-mile loop of track 




















between their campsites and the camp- 
ground’s reception, recreation and enter- 
tainment areas. By next summer, the 
steam train will also connect with the new 
Fort Wilderness Stockade and Western 
Town where complete dining, shopping 
and entertainment facilities are being built 
in phases. 


“Luau Cove” Duetothe popularity of our 
evening luaus, particularly as a convention 
activity, the need arose for an all-weather 
shelter where these events could be held, 
rain or shine. Luau Cove, now under con- 
struction along the beach adjacent to the 
Polynesian Village, will provide sheltered 
seating for 500 guests, as well as a stage 
and food warming facilities. It is scheduled 
for completion early this year. 


The Golf Resort Villas Overlooking the 
finishing holes of the championship Palm 
and Magnolia golf courses, this new 153- 
room resort-hotel will connect with an 





expanded golf clubhouse and restaurant. 
Completion is expected during 1973. 


Treasure Island Work has been in prog- 
ress since last summer on the first phase 
development of the picturesque island in 
Bay Lake. Walkways, small lakes and 
waterfalls will be available to both ex- 
plorers and picnickers during 1973. Later, 
the island will be fully developed so that 
children may explore Ben Gunn's fort, 
Benbow Inn and the wreck of the Hispani- 
ola, all reminiscent of scenes from Walt 
Disney’s classic film, ‘‘Treasure Island.” 


Plaza Pavilion Restaurant Also under 
construction and scheduled for completion 
before the summer season, this 650-seat 
restaurant will provide additional food 
capacity badly needed during the summer 
and peak visitation periods. The Plaza 
Pavilion overlooks Cinderella's Castle from 
the Plaza Hub between Main Street and 
Tomorrowland. 





WALT DISNEY WORLD EXPANSION: 
Counterclockwise from the top, left, “Luau Cove” 
at the Polynesian Village, the 153-room Golf 
Resort Villas, the Richard F. Irvine Sternwheeler, 
the Fort Wilderness Steam Train and Stockade, 
Tom Sawyer's Island, and Treasure Island, 
located in the middle of 400-acre Bay Lake. 

All of these new facilities are planned to be 
available to guests during 1973. 





PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN: /n the new 
Caribbean Plaza, adjacent to Adventureland, 
will be located the Pirates of the Caribbean 
(below), an attraction similar to the one now so 
highly successful at Disneyland. Opening is 
scheduled for Christmas, 1973. 












10 


THE SPACE MOUNTAIN: Guests 
will board a series of space-shuttle 
rocket sleds for a simulated race 
through outer space. Perhaps the 
most ambitious theme park 
attraction ever constructed by the 
Company, the Space Mountain 

will be located in Tomorrowland ba 
and presented by RCA. Ee 


Pirates Of The Caribbean Responding 

to the need for a new high capacity attrac- 
tion, the Company has begun construction 
of Caribbean Plaza adjacent to Adventure- 


land. Here, we will locate shops and 


restaurants designed in a Spanish motif. 


Here, too, will be the entrance to the 


Pirates of the Caribbean, a new version of 
Disneyland’s famous adventure. Sched- 
uled for opening before Christmas, 1973, 


the attraction will entertain 4,200 guests 
per hour. 


The Space Mountain Inside this major 
“thrill” attraction in Tomorrowland, guests 
will board a series of space-shuttle rocket 
sleds for a simulated race through outer 
space. Presented by RCA, the ride will be 
completely light-controlled, located inside 
a dome-like structure 300-feet in diameter 
and 175-feet high. The Space Mountain 
will open to the public in 1974. 










A A " Woes en — — RF 
y 2 i EVD a A Ma 

Ca y a 
oY 2 we 


The PeopleMover This transportation 
system will take guests on an upper-level 
non-stop tour through all of Tomorrow. 
land’s major theme buildings, also Passing 
above the Grand Prix Raceway and Circling 
past the ‘‘20,000 Leagues” submarine 
lagoon. The PeopleMover will represent 
perhaps the world’s first major use of the 
linear motor, a non-polluting motor with 
no moving parts. Above the circular 
PeopleMover station will be the fast- 
spinning Tomorrowland Jets. Both attrac- 
tions will begin construction late in 1973 
with completion planned during the follow. 
ing year. 


Big Thunder Railway This Wild Wes! 
“iron horse” will take guests on a clatter- 
ing downhill race around hairpin turns, 
over a deep valley, past teetering rocks 
and desert wildlife. This high-speed 
adventure will be the first step towards 
the completion of Thunder Mesa, and is 
scheduled for construction during 1974. 





BIG THUNDER RAILWAY: This high-speed 
western adventure, scheduled for 
construction in 1974, represents a major 
Step in the expansion of Frontierland. 
























The 
Buena Vista 


Land 
Company 


The entire Walt Disney World Vacation 
Kingdom comprises only 2,500 acres of 
the total 27,500-acre site owned by the 
Company in central Florida. 

These 43-square miles of land represent 
a substantial opportunity, and an equally 
significant responsibility for the Company. 
Since the inception of the Walt Disney 
World project, it has been the desire of the 
Disney organization to surround its desti- 
nation vacation resort with a compatible 
and quality environment. This environment 
would be designed to protect the unique 
atmosphere of Walt Disney World, and to 
enhance the lives of those who live, work 
and visit there. 


In order to achieve this goal, the Com- 
pany formed a wholly-owned subsidiary, 
the Buena Vista Land Company, and 
assigned this organization the long-range 
task of master planning and managing 
those Disney properties surrounding the 
Vacation Kingdom. Ultimately, this will 
include the development of Walt Disney's 
concept for an Experimental Prototype 
Community of Tomorrow, a project which 
will require the complete cooperation of 
American industry in order to achieve its 
goal of introducing, testing and demon- 
Strating new systems and technologies. 

The City of Lake Buena Vista, with its 
adjacent Motor Inn Plaza, represents a 
major first step into the field of real estate 
planning, development and management. 

A leisure-oriented community amid a 
park-like setting of woods, waterways, 
lakes, trails and an 18-hole golf course, 
Lake Buena Vista will offer townhouses, 
single family dwellings and cluster homes 
primarily as second homes and company 
executive retreats. Some of these dwell- 


ing units will be leased on a short term 
basis, with the remainder available for 
purchase under a form of condominium 
ownership in which the Company will 
retain title to the land. Its development will 
proceed in phases, until one day the com- 
munity may encompass a total of 4,000 
acres and provide homes for 20,000 
residents. 

During 1972, work progressed through- 
out the site of the 1,200-acre first phase. 
Lakes and waterways were sculptured, 
roads and utilities installed. 80 townhouses 
were completed and leased, and another 
53 began construction. An 18-hole, Joe 
Lee-designed golf course is now open for 
play, and the golf clubhouse, planned as 
a family recreational center for the entire 
community, has gone into construction 
with completion expected before summer, 
1973. 

A series of single family “second 
homes” have been designed, which will 
be sold to both corporations and indi- 
viduals on land leased from the Company. 


MOTOR INN PLAZA: Now fully operational, these three hotels, constructed by TraveLodge, Royal Inns and Howard Johnson's, offer 
almost 1,000 rooms of accommodations for visitors to Walt Disney World. A fourth Motor Inn is being constructed by Dutch Inns, which will combine 
616 rooms with convention facilities. Completion is scheduled for April, 1973. 


17 














tion area which served as headquarters 
during the construction of Walt Disney 
World. Among the projected tenants will be 
Walt Disney World participants and sup- 
pliers who require warehouse and service 


The Disney organization will provide 
continuing security, landscape, mainte- 
nance and hospitality services. 

Soon, work will begin on a commercial 
center, uniquely situated along the exist- 
ing, three-mile waterway system. Resi- facilities. | 
dents may travel to the center by pathway Last year, the Company acquired ap- 
or boat, and yet, the site has been de- proximately one mile of beach property 
signed to evolve into a suburban-styled fronting on the Atlantic Ocean to the south 
shopping center, attracting motorists from of Melbourne, Florida, and to the east of 
throughout central Florida. the Indian River. The Indian River forms a 





Master planned to completion, but con- portion of the intercoastal waterway, which 
ceived to develop in stages along with connects Florida with the entire Eastern 
the rest of the community, the commercial Seaboard. In future years, the Company 
center will ultimately include handicraft, expects to make this beach available to 
boutique and convenience shops, major both Walt Disney World guests and resi- 
department stores and restaurants. An dents of the City of Lake Buena Vista. 
office-park complex will adjoin the shop- 
ping area. 


On another portion of the property, the 
Buena Vista Land Company is moving 
forward with an 110-acre industrial park. 
The first buildings are scheduled for occu- 
pancy in July, 1973, and will be located 
along State Road 535, near the administra- 












o< 
pò: 






TOWNHOUSES: 133 townhouses are now either leased 
to corporations or under construction, with a total of 220 
planned. Four on-site models have been furnished by 
Disney’s Academy Award-winning interior designer, 
Emile Kuri 









THE BUENA VISTA CLUB: Now under construction, this semi-private 
club is planned for completion by next summer. Serving residents 
throughout the Greater Orlando area, the clubhouse and pro shop will 
be the focal point for a wide variety of family recreational activities, 
including golf on an 18-hole course, tennis, swimming in either a pool 








or lake, and a beach for sunbathing boating, water skiing and fishing. 


> 


<- ` 





od | 3 à tiati E pn Tg 
LEISURE LIVING: The natural setting will always be dominant at Lake Buena Bee aar -m meaisan ncaa AS at bi piri 
Vista. Some 1,200 single family vacation homes will be built in the future, each ` p ee ae 
overlooking a lake, waterway, forest or golf course fairway. The “main —3\)\ ames e j- Ta - . 
streets” will be a series of pathways and waterways. The pathways, and 6a 
connecting trails, have been designed for electric carts, horses, 
bicycles and pedestrians. Residents may travel anywhere within the 
community without using their automobiles. 


WATERFRONT SHOPPING: The Lake Buena Vista commercial 
center, located along the waterway system of the residential 
community and near the Motor Inn Plaza, will provide 
convenience shopping, boutiques and restaurants for local 
residents and guests of Walt Disney World. A water-oriented 
office park will be developed in conjunction with the center. 










The 2.4% attendance increase over the 
previous year resulted from the general 
s improvement of the Southern California 
Disneyland economy, from the opening during Easter, 
1972, of Bear Country, and from increased 
summer visitation by tourists from outside 
the state of California. 
Total attendance during fiscal 1972 A summer survey showed only a minimal 
reached 9,642,000, second highest in 2.4% drop in attendance by tourists 
the Park's history. However, revenues, originating east of the Mississippi, indicat- 
spurred by higher per capita spending, ing that, as the Company had projected, 


reached an all-time high of $82,194,000. the opening of Walt Disney World in 
Careful budgeting and dedication to Florida had little effect on attendance pat- 


cost control by Disneyland’s management 


terns at Disneyland. This same summer 
survey, in fact, showed a 5.9% increase in 


further contributed to the Park’s profit- 
total attendance from outside California. 


ability. 


DISNEYLAND AFTER DARK: Top-name musical personalities, 
appearing at Coca-Cola's Tomorrowland Terrace, the Carnation Plaza 
Gardens and on the Tomorrowland Stage, brought added excitement 

to Disneyland's entertainment calendar throughout the summer months. 








sees ne mE 


ee eos oe 
owe 


THE MAIN STREET ELECTRICAL PARADE: Two performances nightly of this new and innovative 
pageant contributed strongly to increased summer nighttime attendance, and extended visitor stays 
in the Park, Floats decorated with more than 750,000 lights were guided down a darkened Main 
Street by 114 costumed participants 


> 
> 
e 


fà N 
s G 
. 


f+" 


n 
+. 


BEAR COUNTRY: This new four-acre “theme” land features 
the Country Bear Jamboree (left), Disneyland'’s 54th major 
attraction. In this twin-theater presentation, 18 “Audio- 
Animatronics” bears offer a 15-minute medley of country and 
western tunes. Other major elements of this new area 

include the Davy Crockett Explorer Canoes, the Mile Long Bar, 
an arcade and Trading Post, and the Golden Bear Lodge, 

an outdoor restaurant with seating for 600 guests, overlooking 
the Rivers of America. 














Worldwide film revenues, which include 
those of the Walt Disney Educational 
Materials Company, reached an all-time 
high of $69,216,000 during fiscal 1972, 
due primarily to a record year in foreign 
film distribution. 

Buena Vista International, the subsidiary 
which supervises all foreign motion pic- 
ture distribution, enjoyed revenues of 


$26,161,000, 21% ahead of fiscal 1971. 
These figures include film rentals from 
the Canadian market which is served by 
our domestic distribution organization. 
For the first time, France surpassed Eng- 
land to become the Company's highest 
grossing foreign territory. 

During the year, our full-length animated 
feature, ‘‘The Aristocats,” became the 
highest grossing foreign release in Disney 
history. Foreign film rentals are now pro- 
jected at $16,550,000. For the first time, 
foreign grosses on a Disney film have sub- 
stantially exceeded domestic returns. 
“The Aristocats” is expected to bring film 
rentals of $9,800,000 in the United States 
and Canada during its initial release. 

Throughout Europe, the Company has 
had great success with a continuing series 
of full-length summer cartoon programs, 
created expressly to augment its foreign 
distribution schedules. For example, 
“Superstar Goofy,” a full-length theatrical 


INTERNATIONAL FILM DISTRIBUTION: The 

Los Angeles Theater in Buenos Aires, Argentina 
(above), has been exhibiting Disney motion 
pictures exclusively for the past six years. Theaters 
like La Royale in Paris (right) programmed films 
like “The Aristocats” and “Superstar Gooty,” a 
full-length program of cartoons, and helped France 
to become the Company's highest grossing 
foreign territory. 


program of Disney cartoons on sports. 
was released during the Summer Olym- 
pics, and brought $2,052,000 in film 
rentals, 87% of which were recorded in 
Europe. A new full-length program of 
classic Disney shorts is now being pro- 
duced for foreign distribution during the 
Company's 50th Anniversary year. j 

Domestically, “Bedknobs and Broom- 
sticks,” the Angela Lansbury, David 
Tomlinson-starring musical-fantasy, which 
began its general release during February 
1972, has demonstrated continuing box 
office strength, and is now estimated to 
bring film rentals of $8,100,000 in the 
United States and Canada. Upon comple- 
tion of its worldwide release, it is expected 
that the film will show a good profit. 

“Song of the South,” reissued for the 
first time since 1956, will reach $6,125,000 
in domestic revenues, making it one of 
the highest grossing reissues in the Com- 
pany’s history. 








Two totally different productions of this 
traveling arena show, one featuring ‘‘Mary 
Poppins” and the other “The Three Caba- 
lleros,”’ will fulfill engagements throughout 
the United States during 1973. 

During the past year, another unit of 
“Disney on Parade” completed appear- 
ances in Australia and New Zealand. The 
show then moved to London’s famed 
Wembley Stadium, where it played for six 
weeks before beginning an extended 
tour of the European continent and South 


DISNEY ON PARADE: Now beginning its fourth year of engagements, 
this arena show has played to more than 12,000,000 people worldwide. 
Right, character merchandise being manufactured for and distributed 


Pt Ee 


America, which will last throughout 1973. 

“Disney on Parade” is being staged by 
a partnership of subsidiaries of this 
Company and NBC. NBC financed the 
production, while the Disney organization 
contributed its classic stories, characters 
and creative talents. 

To date, three completely different edi- 
tions of the show have brought box office 
receipts in excess of $34,000,000. Yet, 
due mainly to the high production cost of 
the first show, profits on the overall effort 
have been slow to materialize. Until NBC 
recovers its initial investment, this Com- 
pany will not share in any operating profits. 

Nevertheless, it is impossible to calcu- 
late the value of this show to the Com- 
pany's overall licensing and merchandising 
activities, for ‘Disney on Parade” has 
succeeded in introducing our cartoon 
characters, on an in-person basis, to an 
entirely new generation of children 
throughout the world. 








by the Walt Disney Distributing Company. 


og 


For a number of years, economists have 
been aware of national, and in many cases, 
worldwide, trends toward shorter work 
weeks, increasing disposable income, and 
the desire of families to participate in their 
leisure time activities together. These 
trends, combined with the opening of Walt 
Disney World, and a significantly increas- 
ing worldwide market for Disney motion 
pictures and television productions, have, 
in turn, created new opportunities for the 
Company in a number of ancillary fields. 
Some of the highlights of the past year 
include the following: 


Merchandising Under the banner of the 
Walt Disney Distributing Company, the 
Disney organization has begun to contract 
for the manufacture, direct import and 

















See eat 








18 





national distribution of a wide variety of 


Disney character merchandise. These in- 
clude such items as T-shirts, sweat shirts, 
costume jewelry, stuffed animals, watches 


and clocks, inflatables, plastic toys and 
other novelties. 

Our new Company not only decides 
which products should be produced, but 


then designs them, and arranges for their 


manufacture, acting as exclusive whole- 
sale and retail agents. All of this activity 
has been made possible, in part, by the 


fact that, in Walt Disney World and Disney- 


land, the Company has two of the world’s 
largest outlets for retail merchandise. 


The Walt Disney Travel Company 


Another marketing opportunity which has 
resulted from the opening of Walt Disney 


World is the formation of the Walt Disney 
Travel Company, Inc. This organization 
sells both wholesale and retail tour pack- 
ages to Walt Disney World, Disneyland 


A 


and other vacation destinations. 

The Travel Company will also market 
special tour packages designed expressly 
for members of the Magic Kingdom Club. 
Through this Club, major corporations, 
military base personnel, unions and other 
organizations have obtained group and 
individual discounts for admissions to 
Disneyland since 1958. By December, 
1973, it is estimated that the expanded 
Magic Kingdom Club will have 10,000 
chapters representing 5,000,000 members 
throughout the nation. 


Through its Corporate Services Division, 


the Magic Kingdom Club will make avail- 
able to some 4,000 medium-sized com- 


panies a wide range of employee incentive, 


vacation benefit and recreation programs, 


now affordable only by major corporations. 


Publishing The Company's expanding 
worldwide publishing activities are 
founded upon a relationship with Western 
Publishing Company which began in 
1933. Western publishes a full range of 
Disney-themed children’s books and 
activity products in the United States, 








which includes such items as Big Little 
Books, Little Golden Books, Tell-a-Tales, 
puzzles, games, stickers and press outs. 
Almost 40,000,000 units were sold during 
1972. 


Three major publishing programs are 
now being marketed or developed for sale 
by direct mail. Together with Random 
House and Grolier’s, the Company has 
established a children’s book club entitled 
“Disney's Wonderful World of Reading,” 
a continuous reading program for children 
from four to eight years old. 


Also in association with Grolier’s, the 
Company has completed test marketing on 
“Disney's Wonderful World of Knowl- 
edge,” a fact-filled series of volumes which 
entertainingly inform young people on 
such subjects as history, science, art and 
wildlife. Sales are expected to total 
8,000,000 volumes during the next two 
years with royalties to Disney projected to 
reach $2,000,000. 

Now under development is a new series 
entitled ‘“‘Short Stories for Little People,” 
which adapts traditional Disney stories for 


ANCILLARY ACTIVITIES: 
Story-telling albums from 
“The Aristocats” appeared 
on “best seller” charts in 
several foreign countries 
(above). Random House and 
Grolier’s have joined with 
the Company to create a 
children's book club entitled 
“The Wondertul World of 
Reading” (left). 








first readers. It will be published in the 
United States through Grolier’s and in 
Europe by Mondadori. 


Music and Records The outstanding 
foreign film grosses of “The Aristocats” 
resulted in what was easily the Company's 
most successful year internationally in 

the music and record business. “The 
Aristocats” story-telling album appeared 
on “best seller” charts in several coun- 
tries, a truly excellent performance for a 
children’s record. 

Through the development of a lasting 
and diversified library of classic children’s 
records, including other story-telling rec- 
ords from major Disney films, the Com- 
pany has found a way to avoid the volatility 
and high risk nature of the popular music 
field. 


Educational Materials Company This 
subsidiary has now established a firm and 
profitable position in the educational field, 
marketing a diversified product line which 
includes study prints, film strips, listening 
lessons and single concept loops. Gross 
revenues of the Educational Materials 


HOME MOVIES: 8mm silent excerpts from 
classic Disney films are now being sold 
throughout the world by the Walt Disney 
Educational Materials Company. 





Company reached an all-time high 

of $7,530,000 during fiscal 1972, with 
$4,340,000 of this amount representing 
the worldwide rental program for 16mm 
Disney films, which the subsidiary also 
manages. 


CELEBRITY SPORTS CENTER: This 
indoor recreation center, operated by 
the Company in Denver, Colorado, 
offers 80 lanes of bowling, an olympic- 
sized swimming pool and a wide 
variety of other recreational activities 
and restaurants. 


4 y < > 


hoier tenet Winnie the Pooh ° 
THREE 
LITTLE PIGS 

















CHRISTMAS, 1972: It's fast-paced Disney comedy 

at its tinest when Dean Jones, Nancy Olson, Harry Morgan 
and Keenan Wynn invade the world of skiing and 
snowmobiling in “Snowball Express.” Ron Miller produced 
and Norman Tokar directed this contemporary 

comedy about a Manhattan accountant who inherits a 
battered old hotel in the Rocky Mountains and attempts to 
convert it into a ski lodge. 











FEBRUARY: Producer Bill Walsh brings to the screen another zany 
comedy about the sports world in “The World's Greatest Athlete.” 

Tim Conway, Jan-Michael Vincent and John Amos star in this story 
about a downtrodden and defeated college coach who vacations 

in the African bush, where he finds a young, white native who has to 
be the greatest athlete in the world. The coach brings the boy and 

his pet tiger back home, to devastating results. Directed by Robert 
Scheerer, the film has been selected to play in the Radio City Music Hall. 


ILL WINTER-NATIONAU 


FINISH | 





JANUARY, 1973: Merlin the Magician and his pupil, Wart, 
create wizardly whimsy in “The Sword in the Stone,” 

the story of a young boy who ascends to the throne of 
England, when he innocently removes a mystical 

sword from a great anvil and stone. This will be the first 
reissue for this full-length animated cartoon, originally 
released in 1965. 


vss she La a ied Be ae 


EASTER: Fred MacMurray, Cloris Leachman and Harry 
Morgan head the cast of “‘Charlie and the Angel.” In this 
fantasy-comedy set in 1932, a novice, but well-meaning 
angel descends to deliver the Last Judgment to a 

small town storekeeper. Vince McEveety directed for 


producer Bill Anderson. 


-23 















50th Anniversary 
film festival 
10m 
“Walt “Disney 
“Productions 





JULY: The long-awaited return of “Mary Poppins” will highlight our 
50th Anniversary year. Julie Andrews, Dick Van Dyke, David Tomlinson 
4 | and Glynis Johns Star in this multiple Academy Award-winning 

musical fantasy, the highest grossing film in the history 
of Walt Disney Productions. 





21 





OCTOBER: Hayley Mills, Dean Jones, 
Dorothy Provine, Roddy McDowall and 
Neville Brand return to the screen in 
the first reissue of “That Darn Cat,” the 
1965 comedy smash about a Siamese 
secret agent who helps solve a federal 
kidnapping case. 


JUNE: In “One Little Indian,” James Garner stars as a U.S. Cavalry 
corporal who rebels at what he considers to be the unjust treatment of 
Indians. Garner attempts to make his desert escape aboard a camel, 
and is joined in his flight by a young Indian boy. This unusual western 
comedy-drama was produced by Winston Hibler and directed 

by Bernard McEveety. 





The vocal talents of Brian Bedford and 
Phil Harris give life to Robin Hood, a sly 
fox, and his companion, Little John, a bear. 


Peter Ustinov and Terry-Thomas provide 
the voices for Prince John, a tattered lion, 
and his counselor, Sir Hiss. 


CHRISTMAS, 1973: Producer-director Woolie Reitherman and the 
unparalleled Disney animation team have taken three years to fashion 
the boldest, brightest, and perhaps the best full-length cartoon 
feature ever to come from Walt Disney Productions. It's a happy new 
version of the English folk tale, “Robin Hood,” only this time, all 

of the residents of Sherwood Forest and Nottingham are portrayed 

by animals. 


The Sheriff of Nottingham, aptly cast 

as a wolf, confronts Friar Tuck, a badger. 
Voice characterizations are 

by Pat Buttram and Andy Devine. 


Allan-a-Dale, a rooster minstrel, serenades 
his fellow citizens in the Nottingham jail. 
Roger Miller is the voice. 








By Ronald W. Miller 
Vice President — 
Executive Producer 


As we enter 1973, the Company is in the 
unique position of having completed 
principal photography on all of the live 
action films planned for release during the 
year, and Woolie Reitherman and his ani- 
mation team are in the final stages of pro- 
= duction on “Robin Hood, the wonderful 
ne new full-length cartoon feature, which will 
i be our Christmas attraction. 
4 The attention of our entire production 





alll lity 


; f 
- 
2, g Nh E 
— -. | x = - < 
Sa 4 ti: z À x 
DEA ee Basia Bee 
4 Ba X4 EHHA 
; 


j a 
ee Aa > —— a 
a A f - 3 


~ 


“HERBIE RIDES AGAIN”: Stefanie Powers, Helen 
Hayes and Ken Berry (left to right) star in this 
Bill Walsh-produced sequel to “The Love Bug.” 


Staff is now focused on 1974 and beyond. 
Two films for release during 1974 have 
already begun production, and three more 
will go before the cameras during the next 
several months. 

Bill Walsh has cast Helen Hayes, Ken 
Berry, Stefanie Powers and Keenan Wynn 
to star in “Herbie Rides Again,” which 
continues the hilarious adventures of 
Herbie, the Volkswagen with a heart. 
Herbie repeats the title role he created 
in “The Love Bug,” which became the top 
grossing motion picture of 1969. The 
new film will begin its general release in 
February, 1974. 

Last November, Bob Crane, Barbara 
Rush, Kurt Russell and Joe Flynn com- 
pleted their starring roles in “A Son-in-Law 










for Charlie McCready,” with Crane por- 
traying a concerned father who is deter- 
mined that his daughter will marry someone 
just like dear old dad. His problem is 
something called the generation gap. 
Vince McEveety directed the comedy for 
producer Bill Anderson, and the film is 
now slated for release during Easter, 1974. 

It will take almost two years to film 
“The Bears and I,” which began produc- 
tion in western British Columbia during 
June, 1972. Producer Winston Hibler has 
cast Pat Wayne to star as a young non- 
conformist who becomes adopted father 
to a trio of bear cubs, struggling to survive 
in the Canadian wilderness. This most 
certainly is proving to be one of the most 
challenging animal adventures ever done 
by the Company. 

‘‘Paniolo”’ will be an off-beat western 
set entirely in Hawaii. It is the story of a 





“A SON-IN-LAW FOR CHARLIE McCREADY”: 
Kurt Russell, Kathleen Cody and Bob Crane (left 
to right) have completed their roles in this 

Bill Anderson-produced comedy, scheduled for 
release during Easter, 1974. 








24 


Texas cowboy who is shanghaied during 
the California gold rush, only to escape 
to the big island of Hawaii, where he 
reluctantly becomes embroiled in a tropi- 
cal range war. 

Completing our production plans for 
1973 will be principal photography on 
“The Island at the Top of the World.” A 
Jules Verne type of high adventure similar 
in scope to ‘20,000 Leagues Under the 
Sea,” this is the story of a 19th Century 
adventurer, who flies via dirigible to the 
high arctic. When the dirigible crashes, 
he and his companions become stranded 
on a mysterious, volcanically-heated 
island, where they discover a fantastic lost 
civilization of Vikings. Winston Hibler is 
the producer. 

Television production continues to play 
an important part in keeping the Disney 
name and reputation for excellent family 
entertainment before audiences through- 











“THE ISLAND AT THE TOP OF THE WORLD”: 
Matte paintings by Academy Award-winning artist 
Peter Ellenshaw set the tone for this epic 
adventure about a /ost civilization of Vikings, 
which goes into production under the guidance 
of producer Winston Hibler next spring. 











out the world. We are now in our 19th 
consecutive year of television production, 
and “The Wonderful World of Disney” 
continues to rank among America’s most 
popular shows. The episode entitled 
“Nosey, the Sweetest Skunk in the West,” 
which aired over the NBC Television 
Network on November 19, placed fourth 
in the nation, according to Nielsen's 
National Survey. 

Production for the entire 1972-73 sea- 
son has long been completed, and plans 
are well advanced for the new season, 
which begins in September, 1973. If NBC 
exercises all of its current options, the 
series will continue through August, 1975. 

Of particular interest to you, our stock- 
holders and employees, should be the 
50th Anniversary Show, which may be 
seen throughout the nation on Sunday 
night, January 21. 

Our syndicated television series, “The 








Mouse Factory,” is now in its second 
season. Producer Ward Kimball has com- 
pleted 26 new episodes, which place 
greater emphasis on source material from 
our timeless film library. “The Mouse 
Factory” will show a good profit for the 
Company during its first run in the domes- 
tic market, and of equal importance, 

itis bringing the classic Disney cartoon 
characters to a new generation of tele- 
vision viewers. 
























Allin all, we look with great satisfaction 
at the Company's current position in the 
motion picture and television fields. As 
Walt Disney said many times, “Motion pic- 
tures will always be the heart of our 
Company.” We are continuing that policy. 


be byte 


THE BOY AND THE BRONC BUSTER: 

Earl Holliman and Vincent Van Patten bring 
back the old West rodeo days in this 
two-part story about a young boy who 
idolizes a bronc buster’s exciting way of 
life. Ron Miller produced 


CHANDAR, THE BLACK LEOPARD OF 
CEYLON: This sensitive two-part animal 
adventure-drama, filmed entirely on 
location in the tropical jungles and cities 
of Ceylon, was co-produced by Winston 
Hibler and Harry Tytle. 


_—_ a 7 


MUSTANG!: Roy E. Disney produced this two-part 
action adventure about a wild black stallion 

and its struggle to preserve a vanishing mustang 
herd in the Great Southwest of the 1880's 

(above, left). 


THE LITTLE SHEPHERD DOG OF CATALINA: 
Scenic Catalina Island is the setting and Harry 
Tytle is the producer of this delightful animal 
story about a Scottish Shetland show dog who 
becomes lost on the island, 26 miles off the 
California coast. 











a a a aM 


26 


RICHARD T. MORROW 
Vice President 
General Counsel 


S. CLARK BEISE 
President (Retired) 
Bank of America 





“Member Executive Committee 





RONALD W. MILLER* 
Vice President 
Executive Producer 


DONN B. TATUM* 
Chairman of the Board 
and Chief Executive Ofticer 





WILLIAM H. ANDERSON E. CARDON WALKER* 
Vice President President and 
Production and Studio Chief Operating 
Operations Ofticer 


GEORGE L. BAGNALL GORDON E. YOUNGMAN 
President Senior Partner 

George Bagnall Youngman, Hungate 

and Associates and Leopold 





ROY E. DISNEY* 
Vice President 
16mm Production 








FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 


WALT DISNEY PRODUCTIONS 


1971 
$175,611,000 
$ 48,521,000 
$ 21,800,000 


Revenues 
Income before taxes on income. 
Taxes on income 


Net income $ 26,721,000 
Per common and 
common equivalent share 2.90 $2.03 : 
Capitalexpenditures ....... $142,621,000 $229 341,000 
Total assets / $497,315,000 
Working capital $ 41,284,000 
Long term liabilities $102,818,000 


Stockholdersequity ....... $ 119,000 $318,464,000 
Per common share outstanding 





27 
at year end $24.17 
Common shares outstanding ... . 14,273,805 13,176,580* 
Number of stockholders . .... . 36,000 29,000 
Number of employees. ..... . 15,500 | 12,800 





* Adjusted for stock dividend in 1972 








28 





LETTER TO THE SHAREHOLDERS 


As we arrive at the threshold of our 50th Anniversary 
and close the book on fiscal 1972 we can look back on 
a most eventful year with a considerable amount of 
justifiable satisfaction. 

It is the year which saw us bring on stream, on a fully 
operative basis, Walt Disney World, a project the scope 
and complexity of which are difficult to describe — let 
alone comprehend — and the future of which will un- 
doubtedly add more great chapters to our Company’s 
history. 

At the same time every other aspect of the Company’s 
overall activities reached new levels of performance. 

In the process our total assets increased by 22% toa 
total of $608,249,000, and our shareholders equity grew 
to $460,619,000, an increase of 44% this year. 

Financially strong, enjoying a high level of public 
acceptance and trust — a precious asset which carries 
with it a large responsibility — with a well defined course 
of conduct for the future and guided by a staff of able 
and involved people we move into that future with its 
many clearly discernible opportunities with a great deal 
of momentum and enthusiasm. 

We have much to be thankful for. 

Revenues were $328,830,000, an increase of 87.2% 
over the previous year; and consolidated net income of 
the Company and its subsidiaries increased 51% toa 
total of $40,293,000, or $2.90 per share on a larger num- 
ber of outstanding shares. 

Capital disbursements for the year for plant and 
equipment amounted to $142,621,000, which included 
approximately $133,000,000 for Walt Disney World 
and $9,000,000 for Disneyland. 

Cash dividends paid during the year amounted to 
$2,756,000. A 2% stock dividend payable January 1, 
1972 resulted in the issuance of 259,285 additional 
shares with a resulting capitalization of $26,024,000 of 
accumulated earnings. 

On March 2, 1972, the Company called for redemp- 
tion the $100,000,000 of 434% convertible subordinated 

debentures due June 15, 1996. Virtually the entire 
amount of this issue was converted into common stock 
at the equivalent of $127.45 per share, resulting in the 
issuance of 784,514 new shares. As a result we have 
new shareholders to whom we extend a warm welcome. 

At year end there were 36,000 shareholders of record 
(up from 29,000 last year) and 14,273,805 outstanding 
common shares. 

The Company has arranged with Bank of America a 
$60,000,000, five year term loan with interest ranging 





from the prime rate in the first year to Y2 of 1% above 
the prime rate during the last two years. Subsequent 

to year end the outstanding balance was reduced to 
$51,000,000, by a payment on account of principal, and 
arrangements were made for seven Florida banks to 
participate in the loan in the aggregate amount of 
$11,000,000. This has enabled us to establish a firm 
financial relationship with Florida's leading banking 
institutions. 

At year end there were 38,531 shares of the Com- 
pany’s common stock under option to 253 employees. 
During the year 429 employees exercised their options 
resulting in the issuance of 312,711 new shares and 
payment of $6,138,000 into the Company's treasury. 

This qualified stock option plan adopted in 1967 can 
be regarded as having been highly successful. 739 em- 























oe 
i: 
= 
Š 2 


re 
oY 


i 


Si UA 


AATNI N 


alle see 
(AONE 


ice! 
wk a 
aE 

; 


KERE KA ONNI AKA 
Fef pet an 


| 

Y 

© a A 
ni Eaa A, 
r t 

Ar uA 


EAE 


ployees received options on 669,256 shares (adjusted 
for stock dividends and splits), 632,159 of which have 
been issued upon exercise of options. In a business 

in which so much depends upon the attitude, enthusi- 
asm and effort of so many employees, the recognition 
of such a large number of creative, management and 
administrative people as being key to the Company's 
objectives and the incentives thus generated have been 
major contributing factors to the Company’s progress 

in the last five years. 3 

During the second quarter the Company also ar- 
ranged with Bank of America for a $40,000,000, revolv- 
ing line of credit at the prime interest rate, proceeds 
of borrowings thereunder to be used for general corpo- 
rate purposes. Although subsequently new short term 
borrowings have been made, as of year end all borrow- 
ings had been repaid and there were none outstanding. 

Early in the year Walt Disney World Co. reached an 
agreement with a consortium of six unions representing 
employees in the operational and service categories. 
Previously an agreement with a group of nine unions was 
reached covering employees in the maintenance classi- 
fications. This spring the Walt Disney World construction 
project agreement with the AFL-CIO Building Trade 
Unions was, through successful! negotiations, modified 
and extended. These agreements provide a strong base 
for sound employee relationships at Walt Disney World 
in the future. 

During the year the Board of Directors approved a 
deferred compensation retirement plan for key em- 
ployees providing for additional retirement benefits and 
a method of saving a portion of current income on a 
tax deferred basis. The first payments upon retirement 
will commence no earlier than 1977. The plan is an 
unqualified one thereby requiring no current Company 
disbursements in connection with it and includes a con- 
tribution from the employee. As of year end there were 
510 employees covered by the plan which will provide 
substantial incentive for those people to continue to 
contribute to the progress of the Company. 

The Company has also established a voluntary payroll 
deduction plan to enable those employees wishing to 


do so to purchase common stock of the Company. 
Arrangements have been made with Merrill Lynch, 
Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Incorporated to administer 
the plan; the only expense to the Company being the 


brokerage fee payable each month when available funds 


are used to purchase stock in the open market. The 


plan became effective in the first week of October 1972; 





and to date over one thousand of our employees have 


elected to participate. 

On October 1, 1972, stockholders were notified of a 
new dividend reinvestment plan under which share- 
holders may automatically invest dividends in additional 
shares or fractions and may, in addition, on a purely 
optional basis, purchase additional shares of the Com- 


pany's stock through periodic voluntary cash payments. 


During the first six weeks more than 5,000 shareholders 
have elected to participate. This is a gratifying response 
and indicates a widespread recognition of the advan- 
tages of this plan to participating shareholders as well 
as to the Company. 

The major blemish on an otherwise wonderful year 
was the loss of our much loved and revered founder, 
Roy O. Disney. This Company and all of those interested 
in or associated with it bear an eternal debt of gratitude 


to him for the invaluable contributions resulting from 


his wisdom and his leadership. 

While it has been a year of significant forward thrust, 
it also has been one of consolidation — digesting, 
accommodating to and better organizing the results of 
the vigorous efforts of the preceding few years. It is now 
clear, in the sharpest of focus, that the new opportuni- 
ties, which had been foreseen to stem from the accom- 
plishment of the goals which have been attained this 
year, do now exist. With strong resources, the most 
important of which is an organization of exceptionally 
able and dedicated people, we are in an excellent 
position to realize these potentials. With confidence and 
optimism, leavened by the proper amount of prudence, 
there is no reason to doubt that we can and will proceed 
to new levels of achievement. 


Respectfully submitted, 





Donn B. Tatum 
Chairman of the Board 
Chief Executive Officer 


November 24, 1972 
Burbank, California 


29 














30 





SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 


The Company’s principal business is the production and 
distribution of theatrical and television films and the 
operation of two amusement theme parks ‘‘Disneyland, "' 
California, and “Walt Disney World,” Florida, which are 
referred to as entertainment and recreational activities. 
To more fully inform the reader, the following summary 
of the Company's significant accounting policies is pre- 
sented as an integral part of the financial statements. 


PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION 

The consolidated financial statements include the ac- 
counts of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries, all 
wholly owned. The Company’s investments in its non- 
consolidated foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures are 
generally recorded at equity in their underlying net 
assets and are included in other assets. 


INVENTORIES 

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. 
Cost of merchandise, materials and supplies is generally 
determined on a first-in, first-out basis. 

Costs of completed theatrical and television film 
productions are amortized by charges to income in the 
proportion that the producer’s share of income (film 
rentals less distribution, print, co-producer participation 
and advertising costs) received by the Company for 
each production bears to the estimated total of such 
income to be received. Such estimates of total income 
are reviewed periodically and amortization is adjusted 
accordingly. In accordance with industry practice, film 
production costs are classified as current assets,although 
such costs may not be fully amortized within one year. 


FACILITIES, PROPERTIES AND DEPRECIATION 

The Company follows the policy of classifying as enter- 
tainment attractions and facilities the cost of its two 
amusement theme parks (rides, attractions, exhibits, 
shops), recreational facilities (lake, lagoon, golf 
courses), two theme resort hotels and transportation 
systems. Buildings, equipment and other properties 
comprise, in addition to the cost of buildings and equip- 
ment at the Burbank studio, the cost of various support 
properties at Disneyland and Walt Disney World includ- 
ing buildings (warehouses, assembly plants, adminis- 
tration), roads and utility system. 

Depreciation is provided principally on the Straight 
line method using estimated unit lives ranging from 4 to 
90 years, except for Disneyland which is on an estimated 
composite life of 12 years. Depreciation and mainte- 
nance and repairs are charged either directly to costs 
and expenses as incurred or to film production costs 
which are then amortized against income: major replace- 
ments and betterments are capitalized. The cost and 
related accumulated depreciation of property sold or 
retired are removed from the accounts and any resulting 
gain or loss is recorded in income. 


PREOPENING COSTS 

Deferred preopening costs and expenses relating to 
Walt Disney World (net of $1,909,000 excess of interest 
received from temporary investments over interest 
paid through completion of major construction in 1972) 
are being amortized over five years. 


INVESTMENT CREDITS 

As described in note 2 to the consolidated financial 
statements, the Company has adopted the deferral 
method of accounting for investment credits as a reduc- 
tion of tax provisions over the service lives of the 
related assets. 


STOCK OPTIONS 

Proceeds from the sale of common stock issued under 
the stock option plan are accounted for as capital trans- 
actions and no charges or credits are made to income. 
In 1972 the Company credited the tax benefit resulting 
from premature disposition of stock option shares by 
employees to capital in excess of par value; in prior years 
such benefits reduced the provision for taxes on income. 


OPINION OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUN | 


To the Board of Directors and Stockholders 
of Walt Disney Productions 


We have examined the consolidated balance sheet of 
Walt Disney Productions and its domestic subsidiaries 
as of September 30, 1972 and October 2, 1971, and the 
related consolidated statements of income, stockholders 
equity and changes in financial position for the years 
then ended. Our examinations were made in accordance 
with generally accepted auditing standards and accord- 
ingly included such tests of the accounting records and 
such other auditing procedures as we considered neces- 
sary in the circumstances. 

As explained in Note 2, the Company changed its 
method of accounting for investment credits concurrent 
with the retroactive inclusion of investment credits in 
the 1971 financial statements. 

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated finan- 
cial statements examined by us present fairly the finan- 
cial position of Walt Disney Productions and its domestic 
Subsidiaries at September 30, 1972 and October 2, 1971, 
and the results of their operations and the changes in 
financial position for the years then ended, in conformity 
with generally accepted accounting principles consist- 
ently applied, after giving effect to the Change, which we 
approve, described in the preceding paragraph. 


ave Se TE RE Boe d Ca 


Los Angeles, California 
November 30, 1972 




















CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME 


REVENUES 
Entertainment and recreational activities . 
Film rentals 
Other — publications, merchandising, music and records 


Tota! revenues 


COSTS AND EXPENSES 
Entertainment and recreational activities . 
Film distribution and amortization 
Costs applicable to other revenues . 
General, administrative and selling (note 3) . 


Total costs and expenses . 


INCOME BEFORE TAXES ON INCOME. 
Taxes on income (note 2) . 


NET INCOME 


EARNINGS (note 6) 
Per common and common equivalent share . 
Per common share — assuming full dilution . 





Year Ended 
October 2 
1971 


$ 81,236,000 

71,595,000 
__ 22,780,000 
175,611,000 


61,426,000 
35,820,000 
11,930,000 
_ 17,914,000 
127,090,000 


48,521,000 


34 ITA ,800,000 


93,000 $ 26,721,000 


$2.03 





31 








CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 








September 30 October 2 
1972 1971 
ASSETS 
CURRENT ASSETS 
Gaan ey Bs et Sl Sek 0 amg PE ars al Ti A $ 11,889,000 $ 5,969,000 | 
Short term investments — at cost 30,772,000. | 
Accounts receivabie, less allowances... a 6 kt we a 12,368,000 7,536,000 
RONIE COSIS BUG OOE 5 E ee) a ee. T 1,783,000 7,307,000 
Inventories — at the lower of cost or market | 
Film productions 
Compisied, jessamorizauon. 64. oe a eae 10,911,000 12,410,000 | 
MPO ss Coe eerie ietee ase ae as N 24,550,000 14,313,000 | 
Merchandise, materials and supplies 0 8,966,000 =| 
Total current assets . 87,273,000 | 
| 32 ENTERTAINMENT ATTRACTIONS AND FACILITIES — at cost . 322 821,000 3 
f Less accumulated depreciation . (46,945,000) | 
275,876,000 
BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT AND OTHER PROPERTIES — at cost 73,901, 000 
Less accumulated depreciation . _ (16,275, 000) | 
57,626,000 | 
OO D ha l 


CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS — at cost (note 1) 
(including hotel construction — 1971) . 


| LAND — at cost . 


| 
a | 
46,444,000" 
16,493,000 | 


OTHER ASSETS | 

7,892,000" — 
5,711,000 | 
| 8,640,000 13,603,000 


Deferred preopening costs, less amortization 
Other (note 1) . 








| $608,249,000 $497,315,000 
A 

| 
i 

f 








*Reclassified for comparative purposes 











Walt Disney Productions and Domestic Subsidiaries 


October 2 
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY = helt 
CURRENT LIABILITIES 
Notes payable to banks (note 3) . 
Accounts payable $ 31,432,000 
Payroll and employee benefits 6,228,000 
Property, payroll and other taxes 5,320,000 
Taxes on income (note 2) . 3,009,000* 
Total current liabilities . 45,989,000 
LONG TERM LIABILITIES (notes 3 and 5) 
Notes payable to banks 
43⁄4% convertible debentures 100,000,000 
Other . 2,818,000 
102,818,000 33 
DEFERRED CREDITS 
Unearned deposits and rentals . ae Gee i 7,593,000 
Deferred taxes on income and investment credits (note 2) . 22,451 ,000* 
_ 30,044,000 
COMMITMENTS (note 1) 
STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY (note 5) 
Preferred shares, $20 par value 
Authorized — 5,000,000 shares; none issued 
Common shares, $1.25 par value 
Authorized — 75,000,000 and 20,000,000 shares 
Issued and outstanding — 14,273,805 and 12,917,295 shares . 16,147,000 
Capital in excess of par value 224,861,000 
Accumulated earnings . __ 77,486,000 
318,464,000 





ee had 


3.249 000 $497,315,000 








36 


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEN = 


NOTE 1 WALT DISNEY WORLD 

At the opening of Walt Disney World on Oooo 15.4974; 
completed facilities with a total cost of $282,000,000 
were capitalized as entertainment attractions and other 
properties; during the fiscal year 1972 completed addi- 
tions to Walt Disney World approximated $150,000,000 
including the acquisition of United States Steel Corpora- 
tion's interest in two theme resort hotels. 

Pursuant to an agreement for the use of the name of 
Walter E. Disney, Retlaw Enterprises, Inc. (a company 
owned by the family of the late Walter E. Disney) will 
participate in certain profits of Walt Disney World 
Phase | operations, after recovery by the Company of 
certain costs and expenses incurred prior to the opening 
of Walt Disney World; no profit participation was pay- 
able for fiscal year 1972. 

The drainage service agreements with Reedy Creek 
improvement District (a governmental unit of the State of 
Florida) requiring annual fee payments of approxi- 
mately $600,000 by the Company’s subsidiary, Walt 
Disney World Co., were terminated during 1972 when 
the District obtained public financing through the issu- 
ance of $20,000,000 ad valorem tax bonds. As a result, 
the Company’s subsidiary became subject to the levy 
of ad valorem taxes. 

The Company has a majority interest in a joint venture 
with a subsidiary of Florida Telephone Corporation. 

At September 30, 1972 the net investment in this joint 
venture of $2,232,000 ($1,019,000 — 1971) approximates 
its underlying equity and is included in other assets. 

The Company expects to invest an additional $1,000,000 
in the venture during fiscal year 1973. 


NOTE2 TAXES ON INCOME 
The Company has adopted the deferral method of 
accounting for investment credits and accordingly has 
reduced its Federal income tax provision for the year 
ended September 30, 1972 by $733,000; estimated 
credits amounting to $6,418,000 related to qualifying 
asset additions (including theatrical and television film) 
put into service through September 30, 1972 are being 
deferred and will be amortized as a reduction of tax 
provisions over the service lives of the related assets. 
The reduction in the effective tax rate for 1971 arose 
mainly from tax exempt interest revenues and from spe- 
cial deductions due to premature disposition of stock 
option shares by employees resulting in a tax reduction 
of $1,000,000. In 1972 the Company changed its 
method of accounting for the tax benefit attributable to 
premature dispositions to conform to a recently ap- 


proved Opinion by the Accounting Principles Board; 
accordingly, such tax benefit amounting to $480,000 for 
1972 has been credited to capital in excess of par value. 

Subsequent to the issuance of the Company's 1971 
financial statements, Congress passed the Revenue Act 
of 1971 which established the Asset Depreciation Range 
System and the Job Development Credit. The opening 
of Walt Disney World on October 1, 1971 enabled the 
Company to claim investment credits of $4,351,000 
applicable to the cost of these facilities in its 1971 Fed- 
eral income tax return; such credits had not been 
recognized in the 1971 financial statements. As a result, 
payment of a large part of the current income tax 
liability at October 2, 1971 was not required and, there- 
fore, such liability has been reclassified on the accom- 
panying balance sheet. Concurrent with the retroactive 
inclusion of such credits in the 1971 financial state- 
ments, the Company elected to follow the deferral 
method of accounting for investment credits, whereas 
it had used the flow-through method in prior years. 

This change in accounting had no significant effect on 
the previously reported aggregate provision for taxes 
on income for the year ended October 2, 1971, because 
most of the assets related to the investment credits 
had been in service for only two days during that year. 
The Company also has substantial claims on file for 
investment credits on theatrical and television films 
under the Revenue Act of 1962, which are currently the 
subject of litigation. Although the United States Dis- 
trict Court has rendered a judgment in the Company’s 
favor which is now on appeal by the Internal Revenue 
Service, these claims will not be reflected in the 
accounts until collection is assured. 

The deferred taxes on income (including provisions 
of $10,225,000 in 1972 and $10,300,000 in 1971) repre- 
sent taxes which will not become payable until future 
years due principally to differences between financial 
and tax reporting of depreciation on facilities and 
amortization of preopening costs. 


NOTE 3 NOTES PAYABLE & LONG TERM LIABILITIES 


Under an unsecured term loan bank credit agreement of 
February 10, 1972, the Company borrowed $60,000,000 
repayable in annual instalments ($9,000,000, $12,000,000 
and $15,000,000 in fiscal years 1973, 1974-1976 and 
1977, respectively). Interest is payable quarterly ranging 
from the prime rate to Y2% above the prime rate for the 
last two years of the loan. The loan agreement contains 
certain provisions with respect to payment of cash divi- 














ee 


dends, maintenance of net worth, compensating cash 
balances and future indebtedness. At September 30, 
1972 approximately $65,000,000 of accumulated earn- 
ings are free of these restrictions. The Company also 
has available a revolving unsecured line of bank credit 
of $40,000,000 with interest at the prime rate. Pursuant 
to the terms of these bank credit arrangements, as 
amended in October 1972, deposit balances equal to 
15% of the outstanding borrowings and 10% of the 
unused portion of the revolving line are required to be 
maintained. 

Other long term liabilities include $1,625,000 
($2,135,000 — 1971) of notes payable, partially secured 
by land and other properties which mature through 1981 
and bear interest at rates ranging from 4% to 7¥2%. 

Net interest expense amounted to $1,823,000 for 
fiscal year 1972; additional interest of $2,200,000 paid 
through completion of major construction of Walt Disney 
World in 1972 has been included in deferred preopen- 
ing costs. Other revenues for 1971 include $1,150,000 
net interest income earned. 


NOTE4 PENSION PLANS 

The Company contributes to various trusteed pension 
plans under union and industry-wide agreements. Con- 
tributions are based on the hours worked by or gross 
wages paid to covered employees. The aggregate costs 
of all of these plans were approximately $1,316,000 

and $1,726,000 for the years 1972 and 1971, respec- 
tively. The Company has no past service liability under 
these plans. 

The Company has a pension plan covering substan- 
tially all of its employees not covered by union or indus- 
try pension plans. The plan is funded by Company and 
employee payments to a trust administered by a bank. 
Pension expense under the plan for the years 1972 and 
1971 aggregated $787,000 and $724,000, respectively, 
including amortization of actuarially computed past ser- 
vice liability over a remaining period of sixteen years. 
During 1972 the Company increased retirement benefits 
and raised the actuarially assumed interest rate from 
372 % to 5%; it is estimated that for a full year these revi- 
sions will reduce Company contributions by approxi- 
mately $500,000. 

During 1972 the Company established a nonqualified 
and unfunded key employee retirement plan providing 
for Company and employee contributions. Company 
costs for 1972 were $49,000 including amortization of 
actuarially computed past service liability over a period 
of forty years. 


NOTE 5 STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY 
On February 1, 1972 the stockholders approved an 
increase in the authorized common stock from 20 to 75 
million shares. On November 28, 1972 a 2-for-1 common 
Stock split to be effected by a 100% stock dividend was 
declared to holders of record on December 6, 1972. 
payable January 15, 1973; this transaction has not been 
reflected in the financial statements. 

As at March 2, 1972 the Company issued 784,514 
common shares upon conversion at $127.45 per share 
of substantially all of the 434% convertible subordinated 
debentures issued on June 15, 1971. 

Under the 1967 qualified stock option plan, options 
are granted to key executive, management and creative 
personnel at prices equal to market value at date of 
grant. Transactions in outstanding options under the 
plan during 1972 were as follows: 


Number of Shares 


Options Available 
Granted For Grant 
Outstanding October 2, 1971 ee Se 
($18.29 to $110.91 per share; 
304,067 exercisable) . 344,192 1,098 
Added for 2% stock dividend 
December 1, 1971 5,920 48 
Cancelled . A ee Oe ON eager (4,327) 4,327 
Granted ($156.75 to $183.63 per share) 5,457 (5,457) 
Exercised ($18.29 to $110.91 per share) (312,711) 
Outstanding September 30, 1972 
($20.10 to $183.63 per share; 
15,583 exercisable) . . . .- -. =. . 38,531 __ 16 


NOTE 6 EARNINGS PER SHARE 
Earnings per common and common equivalent share 
have been computed on the basis of the average num- 
ber of shares outstanding during each year. In addition, 
it was assumed that all dilutive stock options had been 
exercised at the beginning of each year and that the 
proceeds had been used to purchase shares of the 
Company’s common stock at the average market price 
during the years. | 

For 1972, earnings per common share — assuming 
full dilution — are based upon the assumption that, in 
addition to the exercise of the stock options, the pre- 
viously outstanding 43⁄4 % convertible debentures 
(note 5) had been converted into common stock on the 
date of their issuance. If such conversion had taken 
place at the beginning of fiscal year 1972, earnings per 
common share for 1972 would have been equal to the 
fully diluted amount. For 1971, no dilution of earnings 
per common share would result from assumed con- 
version of the then outstanding debentures. 


37 



















PARENT COMPANY CORPORATE OFFICERS 


WALT DISNEY PRODUCTIONS Donn B. Tatum 
500 So. Buena Vista Street, Burbank, California Chairman of the Board 
Produces motion pictures for theatrical and television distribution— E. Cardon Walker 


operates Disneyland Park—operates Celebrity Sports Center— President 

conducts ancillary activities. William H. Anderson 

PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES Vice President — Production and Studio Operations 
Michael L. Bagnall 

BUENA VISTA DISTRIBUTION CO., INC. Vice President— Business Affairs and Information Systems 


Irving H. Ludwig — President 

Distributes, syndicates and sells domestically the product of 

Walt Disney Productions, including 35mm theatrical tilm, television 
shows and records and albums. Bonar Dyer 


BUENA VISTA INTERNATIONAL. INC Vice President — Industrial Relations 

Vincent H. Jefferds 
Harold P. Archinal— President À i Sd ; 
Supervises the distribution of Walt Disney Productions 35mm vice President — Merchandising and Promotion 
theatrical film, 16mm film and television shows in foreign countries Orbin V. Melton _ 
except the Western Hemisphere. Vice President — Finance 


Roy E. Disney 
Vice President— 16mm Production 





Ronald W. Miller 
racine ee e HUN Vice President — Executive Producer 
Western Hemisphere trading corporation. Richard T. Morrow 
WALT DISNEY MUSIC COMPANY Vice President — General Counsel 
| 40 James A. Johnson—President Richard A. Nunis é . 
j Music publishing — ASCAP affiliate. Vice President— Operations — Disneyland and Walt Disney World 
| Lawrence E. Tryon 


James A. Johnson—President Franklin Waldheim 


Music publishing — BMI affiliate. Vice President and Eastern Counsel 
WALT DISNEY EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS COMPANY Luther R. Marr 

| Carl Nater — President Secretary — Legal 

| Distributor — 16mm tilm, audio-visual educational materials and 


8mm home movies. Douglas E. Houck 


| Assistant Secretary 
| WALT DISNEY WORLD CO. Donald A. Escen 
| Donn B. Tatum — Chairman, Board of Directors Assistant Treastiret and Controller 
| E. Cardon Walker—President ; 
Leland L. Kirk 


Richard A. Nunis — Executive Vice President 


William E. Potter — Senior Vice President Assistant Secretary -Treasurer 


Robert C. Allen —Vice President— Hotels Bruce F. Johnson 
| James P. Armstrong — Vice President — Food Division Assistant Controller 
| Carl G. Bongirno—Vice President and Treasurer STOCK TRANSFER AGENTS: 
Re E R eee RRE Division Bank of America, N. T. & S. A., Los Angeles: 
ORE Ee SOO TVOS TORAO SANRA Bankers Trust Company, New York. 


Jack B. Lindquist—Vice President— Marketing 
l Robert K. Matheison — Vice President — Operations Division 
Jack W. Olsen — Vice President — Merchandising 
| James P. Passilla—Vice President— Employee Relations 


STOCK REGISTRARS: 
Bank of America, N. T. & S. A., Los Angeles: 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, New York. 


| Jack C. Sayers—Vice President— Industry Sales STOCK EXCHANGES: 
| Philip N. Smith—Secretary The common stock of the Company is listed for trading on the 
| | Luther R. Marr— Assistant Secretary New York and Pacific Coast Stock Exchanges. 
| Donald A. Escen—Assistant Treasurer INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS: 
| | James A. McManus — Assistant Treasurer Price Waterhouse & Co., Los Angeles. 
| Operates Walt Disney World. ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS: 
: WALT DISNEY TRAVEL CO., INC. First Tuesday in February. 
Jack B. Lindquist— President ee Te EE LTT Ea 


f Markets wholesale and retail tour packages. 


| BUENA VISTA LAND COMPANY. INC. This report is distributed for the information of stockholders and 


| employees of the Company. It is not to be considered either as a 

| oa eR LENS prospectus or circular in connection with the purchase and/or sale 
; of securities nor is it to be considered a part of the proxy soliciting 

i VISTA COMMUNICATIONS. INC. material of the Company for the annual meeting of its stockholders. 

| (a partner in Vista-Florida Telephone System) 

Telephone and related communications services. 


E Ee rae re a ee ERE TAT AEE I RET, eT E es 











