









Fiscal year ended September 30 


Pa 


-g -70u 


oductions Annual Report 1974 


` 








ON THE COVER 


Emphasizing the key role of motion pictures in the diversified activities 
of Walt Disney Productions are seven of the films which will 

contribute to revenues during fiscal 1975: (left to right) Winnie the Pooh 

and Tigger Too, Herbie Rides Again, The Island at the Top of the World, 

The Bears and |, Escape to Witch Mountain, Fantasia and Bambi 





© 1974 Walt Disney Productions 














Donn B. Tatum, E. Cardon Walker. 


To our Shareholders 
and Employees: 


‘piness—the product of family entertainment and shared 
reational experiences (as reflected in the photographs 
ne opposite page)—is an important commodity in 
ay's world. The creation of enduring family entertainment 
always been a rewarding experience for those of us 
‘ciated with Walt Disney Productions, and this seems 
ecially true in times of national stress, when people 
torically have turned to some form of entertainment or 
eation to escape from the cares of their daily lives. 
nflation, the crisis of confidence in government and the 
prolonged concern about the availability of gasoline had 
a profound effect upon business activity in the United States 
during the past year, and our Company felt the impact of 
these conditions, as did everyone else. Yet, due to the high 
degree of diversification and flexibility we enjoy at Walt 
Disney Productions, we were able to register our seventh 
consecutive year of record revenues, net income and 
earnings per share. 

in November, 1974, at the time of this writing, there is no 
way that the management of this Company, nor any other, 
can predict when the current inflationary spiral will be 
controlled, or when an economic turnaround will occur. 

However, our valuable assets (carried on the balance 
sheet at $742,616,000, up 10% in fiscal 1974), our strong 
cash flow and relatively small existing debt (only 11% of 
equity) place us in a very flexible position at this time 
of national uncertainty. 

At year end, the Company's long-term debt stood at 
$58,170,000, of which $55,000,000 represented the 
outstanding balance of a declining and revolving seven- 
year term loan with the Bank of America and a group of 
Florida banks, the final payment on which is due in October, 
1981. The Company has a call on an additional $10,000,000 
under the term loan agreement, and also has available a 
revolving $25,000,000 unsecured line of credit at the 
prime rate. 

In accordance with a plan established prior to the 
opening of Walt Disney World, 1975 will mark the 
completion of the Company's major first phase capital 
construction plan for Florida’s “Magic Kingdom” theme 
park, a goal achieved almost two years ahead of schedule. 
The total Company’s 1975 capital expenditure program 
will be substantially below fiscal 1974 when it totaled 
$67,241,000. We, therefore, expect to make further 





reductions in the Company's outstanding debt during the 
coming year, and interest expenses should decline as well. 

Our commitment, in both our films and our theme parks, 
has always been to invest in long-term values, and this 
policy, we believe, has created assets which will be vital 
revenue-producers for years, and perhaps even generations. 

For example, the total original production cost of our 
wholly-owned motion picture and television library was 
$365 ,066,000 at year end, of which only $27,055,000 
remained unamortized. $20,678,000 represented films now 
in release, and the remaining $6,377,000 represented 
motion pictures completed but not yet released. The reissue 
and re-use of negatives from this classic library have 
generated approximately one-third of our total film rentals 
during the past seven years. 


THE WALT DISNEY PRODUCTIONS 
FILM LIBRARY 


(as of September 30, 1974) 


516 SHORT SUBJECTS 
23 ANIMATED FEATURES 


84 LIVE-ACTION MOTION PICTURES 
7 TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURE FEATURES 
331 HOURS OF MICKEY MOUSE CLUB SHOWS 
78 ONE-HALF HOUR ZORRO SHOWS 
43 ONE-HALF HOUR MOUSE FACTORY SHOWS 
474 HOURS OF FILMED TELEVISION SHOWS 


At year end, the Company’s entertainment attractions 
and visitor facilities at Disneyland and Walt Disney World 
represented an investment at cost ot $604,800,000, much of 
which was financed in the favorable economic climate 
which existed between 1968 and 1971. 

In Florida, the Company has invested approximately 
$141,000,000 in such basic items as utilities, service and 
administrative facilities, the monorail system, Bay Lake and 
the related waterways, and underground service areas. 
These provide operating efficiency and capacity to support 
future expansion, and have helped to establish Walt Disney 
World as the most environmentally-conscious, sophisticated 
and popular recreation destination ever built. 

The Company owns 28,155 acres of land and holds 
long-term leases on another 64 acres. All of this land is 
carried on our balance sheet at its cost: $16,507,000. 

In addition to Disneyland and our Florida properties, this 
includes the 727-acre Golden Oak Ranch in the Newhall- 
Saugus area of California, the 44-acre studio in Burbank; 
and the site of Celebrity Sports Center in Denver, Colorado. 

Our diversified operations also reach into such fields 
as merchandising, music publishing, record manufacturing, 
publications, community development, the production of 
audio-visual materials for educational use, the rental of 
16mm films, and the promotion of travel. 

Our total activities brought gross revenues of $429,889,000 
during fiscal 1974, up 11.6%. Worldwide motion picture 








and television rentals increased 19% to $90,390,000. 

and revenues from the consumer products group increased 
20% to $57,074,000. In fact, all major lines of business 
reported record revenues. 

However, our theme parks experienced continuing 
inflationary pressures in labor and material costs, as well 
as increases in such fixed costs as utilities, depreciation, 
property taxes and interest, which substantially offset the 
revenue gains. The experience of our theme park manage- 
ment in controlling costs and seeking new efficiencies 
during the year will benefit the Company through improved 
operation of these facilities over the long run. 

The fiscal fourth quarter ending September 30, always 
a key factor in assessing the Company's performance 
for any year as a whole, brought record revenues and net 
income, up 20% and 12%, respectively, lifting net income 
for the year to $48,328,000 (or $1.66 per share). Stock- 
holders’ equity rose 9% to $552,478,000. 

Cash dividends paid during fiscal 1974 amounted to 
$3,483,000, and were in addition to a 2% stock dividend 
paid January 1, 1974 to stockholders of record December 
3, 1973. 

The Company Pension Plan, covering substantially all of 
our domestic employees not covered by motion picture 
industry or specific union pension plans, is in sound 
condition. The new pension legislation of 1974 will not 
require material changes in the benefit or vesting provisions 
of the plan and accordingly Company costs relating to 
these changes will be minimal. There will be additional 
administrative and reporting costs resulting from the 
requirements of the new law. 

As of October 31, 1974, the market value of the plan's 
portfolio of investments was approximately 6% less than the 
cost of those investments. However, asset market value 
exceeds net cash invested since inception of the plan 
by approximately 17%. Unfunded past service liability is 
approximately $2,500,000; which is being amortized over 
the next 15 years. As of the same date the proportion of 
the pension plan portfolio invested in fixed income debt 
securities was approximately 78% of the total amount 
invested (about 83% of the current market value of the total 
portfolio). The balance was in common stock equities. 

In September, the Company announced the termination 
of its agreement with the Wrather Corporation, which 
would have resulted in the sale to Disney of the Wrather 
subsidiaries which own and operate the Disneyland Hotel. 
Pending litigation against TelePrompTer, which affects 
the Wrather Corporation, made it impossible for Wrather 
to follow through with its proposed plan of complete 
liquidation, thereby precluding their sale of the Disneyland 
Hotel. 

For Walt Disney Productions, 1975 will be a year of 
transition and preparation. It will mark the completion of a 
major construction program that will bring Walt Disney 
World's “Magic Kingdom” up to its targeted capacity of 
70,000 rides-per-hour, and it will be a year of planning 
for new projects which should signal a new era of growth 
for our Company. 

We have available many challenging opportunities— 
among them, the "World Showcase”’, the first element of the 
Experimental Prototype Community of Tomorrow in Florida, 
and the proposed all-year, outdoor recreational project 


at Independence Lake in Northern California, both of which 
will be discussed later in this report. 
We have also begun exploring the potentials and 


possibilities for establishing a Disney-themed, amusement- | 


recreational complex in a foreign country. We are fortunate 
that we can afford to pick and choose those projects which 
are in the Company's best interests, and are most 
compatible with the Disney name and image, without any 
pressure to have to do any of them until the feasibility 

and economics are right. 

This has been a year of uncertainty and difficulty. The 
stock market has experienced a severe decline and our 
stock has, unhappily, been no exception. Considering the 
economic climate, our Company has performed well; and 
this is because of the quality of the products and services 
which we offer, the value which the public places upon 
them, and the strength and acceptability of the great name 
under which we do business. 

As to the future, even though the difficulties and 
uncertainties will continue, there is no reason for us to lack 
confidence in our prospects. We are stronger financially, 
creatively and organizationally than we have ever been. 
Our assets are larger than ever and are real in the sense of 
their proven ability to generate revenue. Our motion pictures 
and other products continue to be well received and we 
have in Walt Disney World and Disneyland the world’s two 
most exciting destination attractions. 

We are reasonably entitled to expect that we shall reach 
new plateaus of success in our ongoing businesses. 

At the same time we have substantial new opportunities 
which will surely materialize with time. 

With all of this and a talented, dedicated organization of 
approximately 14,000 employees, we shall continue to 
progress and will emerge from the current period uniquely 
prepared for further success in the years ahead. 


Burbank, California 
November 18, 1974 


y 


Donn B. Tatum, Chairman ot the Board 


ZZ W bay 


E. Cardon Walker, President 





` a te 





Be buh 
|) ee 
URL 


eil 


LASTING VALUES: Among the major 
assets generated by Walt Disney 
Productions during its 51-year history are 
those seen on this page (clockwise, from 
top): the Walt Disney Studios in Burbank, 
worldwide headquarters for motion picture 
and television production activities; Walt 
Disney World, situated on more than 27,000 
acres of land in Florida; a creative and 
talented organization, as represented by 
the performing talent from Disneyland, who 
appeared at the Music Educators National 
Convention in March; a wholly-owned and 
virtually irreplaceable film library, 
represented by a reissue of “Bambi” in 
Japan; and Disneyland, which has been 
host to more than 130,000,000 guests 
during its 20-year history 





Motion Picture 
and Television 
Distribution 


The exceptional performance of three new motion pictures 
and the careful utilization of the Disney film library enabled 
the Company to achieve record motion picture and 
television revenues during fiscal 1974, up 19% to 
$90,390,000. (For comparative purposes, the revenues 

of the Walt Disney Educational Media Company are now 
being reported under the Consumer Products group.) 

Domestic theatrical revenues reached $48,586,000, up 

21%. Major contributors to this record total (together 

with their estimated film rentals in the United States and 
Canada during the current release) were: "Robin Hood”, 
the full-length animated feature released during Christmas, 
1973 ($9,500,000); “Superdad”, a comedy offered to 
exhibitors on an all-Disney program with a reissue of "Son 
of Flubber” ($6,500,000); and “Herbie Rides Again" 
($17,500,000). "Herbie", a sequel to the popular 1969 
release, “The Love Bug”, is now expected to become the 
second highest grossing domestic release in the Company’s 
history, a rare instance where a sequel has outperformed 
the original film. 

Foreign motion picture rentals increased 13.4% to 
$29,872,000. The top markets for Disney films during fiscal 
1974, in order of performance, were the United Kingdom, 
Italy, France, Australia, Germany and Japan. 

“Bedknobs and Broomsticks”, the first Disney live action 
musical to be dubbed in Spanish and Portuguese for 
Latin American release, will gross an estimated $1,100,000 
in that area—the third highest gross ever attained bya 
Disney film in Latin America. 

“The World's Greatest Athlete”, with film rentals of 
$740,000, outperformed all previous Disney releases in 
Australia, excepting "Mary Poppins” and “The Love Bug”. 

In France, “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs” brought 
rentals of $2,200,000, an all-time record for a Disney reissue 
in that country—almost four times more than it grossed 
during its previous French reissue in 1962. 

“Fantasia”, in reissue, became one of the year’s highest 
grossing American films in Italy, bringing revenues of 


1970 1971 1972 





$850,000, almost five times more than it earned during its 
previous reissue in 1967. 

In the United Kingdom, “Robin Hood" began its release 
during the Christmas, 1973, holidays and brought film 
rentals of $2,600,000, an all-time record for an animated 
release there. “Herbie Rides Again” began its United 
Kingdom release in February, 1974, and is expected to 
gross $2,300,000, almost double the performance of its 
forerunner, “The Love Bug”. 

During fiscal 1975, “Robin Hood" and "Herbie Rides 
Again" will both play in all of the Company's major 
European markets, in Latin America, Australia and the 
Far East. “The Island at the Top of the World” premiered in 
the United Kingdom during the Christmas season. 

Worldwide television revenues increased 24% to 
$11,932,000. At least one Disney television series—"‘The 
Wonderful World of Disney”, ‘‘Zorro’’, “The Mickey Mouse 
Club” or ‘The Mouse Factory’’—is now running in 56 
different foreign markets. 

“The Wonderful World of Disney” is the top-rated 
television show in the English-speaking sectors of Canada, 
reaching a total audience of almost 5,000,000 viewers there. 

The series is now being dubbed into five foreign 
languages, and in Mexico, under the title of “Disneylandia”, 
ithas been among the top ten shows for eighteen years— 
Mexico's longest running series and the only foreign- 
produced show currently being run in prime time. 

In Australia, ‘Disneyland’, as the show is known there, 
is the most popular foreign-produced series, rated fourth 
among all shows on the air. 

Drawing upon its extensive film library to generate 
additional revenues during a period of economic 
uncertainty, the Company licensed to NBC Television 
four films for broadcast during the network's “Saturday 
Night at the Movies” series. According to the National 
Nielsen survey, ‘‘20,000 Leagues Under the Sea” received 
an average share of audience of 40.8% when it aired 
February 16, and “The Parent Trap” recorded an average 





Pa š WAY ; SEF 1 a Ë OAT 
fm ORIVE | : 
ee DRIVE IN THEATR: 


sre 
eae | 











ta i 
t WALT DISNEY 
THEWORLDSGREATESTg@H 


AROUND THE WORLD: Long lines for “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs” in 
Paris and “Robin Hood” in London, and a traffic jam created by “Herbie Rides 
Again” at a California drive-in (above) signal record-breaking engagements 
for Disney films 


share of audience of 36.4% on October 26. ‘‘The Three 
Lives of Thomasina” screened in December. One run each 
of “The Parent Trap” and “Pollyanna” remains under 

the contract. 

Responding to the need for quality children’s program- 
ming, the Company will once again syndicate “The Mickey 
Mouse Club” in the United States. As of this writing, the 
series is expected to be seen in approximately 50 major 
markets, five days each week for a minimum of 26 weeks, 
beginning about January 20, 1975. Initial market tests 
indicate strong interest, both from young children who have 
never before seen the series, and from adults, as nostalgia. 
Depending upon public response, enough programs exist 
to continue in syndication for more than two years. 





EXCLUSIVELY DISNEY: /n many major cities of the world, there is a growing 


demand for Disney films, not just during holiday periods, but throughout 
the year. During 1974, the redecorated Continental Theater in Mexico City 
(below) became an exclusive Disney showcase. Other theaters which 
play Disney films virtually exclusively are the La Royale in Paris, the 


Ambassador in Brussels, the Metropole in Copenhagen, and 
the Los Angeles in Buenos Aires 








SUMMER FESTIVAL: From June 26 to September 3, a Walt Disney Summer 
Festival brightened the marquees of 45 theaters in metropolitan New York 
and New Jersey. This new distribution concept, designed to stimulate 
support for Disney product in the area, generated film rentals of $1,250,000 
from nine weekly programs, and will be repeated next year A highlight of 
the series was “Fantasia”, now in its fifth consecutive year of reissue During 
this time, the film has earned $5,250,000, of which $1,350,000 was 
recorded during fiscal 1974. The totalis more than the combined revenues 
from “Fantasia’s” five previous releases, which began in 1940 


—  —T 














Top Family 
Entertainment in the 
Disney Tradition 





Paced by the most challenging epic adventure ever filmed 
by Walt Disney Productions, the year 1975 will bring to 
motion picture screens a complete spectrum of Disney 
entertainment—adventure, mystery, comedy, animation 
classics, and a feature-length review of memorable scenes 
from the Disney True-Life Adventures. Here's the exciting 
line-up: 


Christmas, 1974: Four years in development and pro- 
duction, “The Island at the Top of the World”, an exciting 
adventure in the Jules Verne tradition. follows four polar 
explorers, who travel via dirigible to an uncharted island. 
where they discover a lost civilization of Vikings. Filmed 
on locations spanning the Arctic Circle from Alaska to 
Greenland and in Norway, the production features an 


international cast headed by David Hartman, Donald Sinden. 


Jacques Marin, Mako, David Gwillim and Agneta Eckemyr. 
it was produced by Winston Hibler and directed by 
Robert Stevenson. 

“Winnie the Pooh and Tigger Too”, offered to exhibitors 
on the same program, is the third animated Disney 
featurette starring the huggable Pooh-bear and his friends 
from the Hundred Acre Wood. Based upon A. A. Milne’s 
Classic children’s tales and original illustrations by Ernest H. 
Shepard, this enchanting featurette was produced by 
Wolfgang Reitherman and directed by John Lounsbery. 


January, 1975: "Swiss Family Robinson”, one of Disney's 
all-time box office hits, returns to motion picture screens 
for the third time. John Mills, Dorothy McGuire, James 
MacArthur and Janet Munro star in this filmization of the 


classic tale of a Swiss family shipwrecked on a desertisland. 


February, 1975: In ‘‘The Strongest Man in the World”, two 
college science majors unwittingly concoct a formula that 
gives people superhuman strength with hilarious results. 
Starring Kurt Russell, Eve Arden, Cesar Romero, Phil Silvers 
and Joe Flynn, this supercharged comedy was produced 

by Bill Anderson and directed by Vincent McEveety. 


Easter: Eddie Albert, Ray Milland and Donald Pleasance 
star in “Escape to Witch Mountain”, a thriller about two 
young orphans with supernatural powers who become 








SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON: Classic adventure 
ina primitive, tropical paradise 






ff 
B UA 



















THE ISLAND AT THE TOP OF THE WORLD 
This epic adventure for Christmas, 1974, 
will be offered on an all-Disney program 
with WINNIE THE POOH AND TIGGER 
TOO 


THE STRONGEST MAN IN 
THE WORLD: Comedy 
capers at Medfield 
College 








ESCAPE TO WITCH MOUNTAIN: Mystery 
adventure filmed on California's beautiful Monterey 


peninsula 











captives of a ruthless billionaire and are finally rescued, 

with the help of human and animal friends, by someone from 
another world. Kim Richards and Ike Eisenmann are the 
youngsters in jeopardy. Ron Miller was executive producer 
of this suspense film, which was produced by Jerome 
Courtland and directed by John Hough. 


June: Walt Disney's beloved cartoon feature, “Bambi”, 
returns to motion picture screens for the fifth time, and the 
first time since 1966. Felix Salten's story of a deer 

and his adventures with the other animals of the forest 
unfolds in one of the truly great animation classics. 


Summer: ‘The Apple Dumpling Gang”, a lively, far-out 
comedy caper about three frisky kids who strike it rich and 
set off the wildest bank robbery in gold-mad El Dorado, 
Stars Bill Bixby, Susan Clark, Don Knotts, Tim Conway, 
Harry Morgan, David Wayne and Slim Pickens. Clay 
O'Brien, Brad Savage and Stacy Manning play the 
precocious trio in this wacky western, produced by Bill 
Anderson and directed by Norman Tokar. 


Summer: Helen Hayes, Peter Ustinov and Clive Revill are 
Starred in “One of Our Dinosaurs Is Missing", a spy spoof 
set in London in the 20's, about a group of English nannies 
who steal a dinosaur from the Natural History Museum to 
keep a top-secret microfilm, concealed on the 200-million- 
year-old skeleton, out of the hands of pursuing Chinese 
agents. Written and produced by Bill Walsh and directed by 
Robert Stevenson on location in and around London, this 
happy combination of zany adventure and hilarious fantasy 
adds up to that special Disney brand of fun-for-all-the- 
family entertainment. 


October: The most exciting wildlife sequences of Disney's 
nature photographers combine into one full-length feature 
entitled, "The Best of Walt Disney's True-Life Adventures”. 
This classic combination of animal adventure will be one 
of the year’s most outstanding motion picture events. 


Christmas, 1975: Walt Disney's first full-length animated 
cartoon, “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs", returns for a 
widely anticipated encore—its sixth appearance in the 
domestic market. Combining the most beloved Disney 
cartoon characters with the most memorable Disney music, 
this motion picture ranks as one of the great entertainment 
events in film history. 








































BAMBI: An encore for an 
animation classic 


ONE OF OUR 
DINOSAURS IS 
MISSING: Crafty 
comedy adventure 
with Peter Ustinov 
and Helen Hayes 





THE BEST OF WALT DISNEY'S 
TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURES 

A feature-length review of the 
world's most outstanding wildlife 
photography 


SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN DWARFS: A beloved 
cartoon classic to delight a new generation for 
Christmas, 1975 


THE APPLE DUMPLING GANG: Wacky western comedy with an all-star cast 








+ 


(syz L 


= 
< 
















ine 
$ 


"THE RESCUERS": Major characters in this 
full-length animated cartoon, now in 
production, are Penny (left), a little girl held 
captive by the villainous Medusa (right), 
who lives with her two pet alligators, 

Brutus and Nero, aboard an abandoned 
riverboat in the Black Bayou along the guif 
coast. Bianca and Bernard, members of 
the all-mouse Prisoner's Aid & Rescue 
Society, call upon Orville, proprietor and 
chief pilot for Albatross Airlines (above) to 
fly them to the rescue 





During the past several years, our management has 
committed a great deal of thought and effort to the 


Moti Pj d development of new Disney-oriented production talent 
otion Picture an for the future, particularly in the field of animation. 


sot - Our animation apprenticeship program, now in its third 
Television Production year, is continuing to train new young animators in the 
By Ron Miller Disney tradition. Their work is exceeding even our own 
Vice President - Executive Producer expectations, and a number of them have already begun 


working alongside our veteran animators in the production 
of "The Rescuers”. 

Under the leadership of producer-director Woolie 
Reitherman, this new full-length cartoon based upon the 
“Bianca” stories of Margery Sharp is progressing rapidly. 
There is a genuine excitement and enthusiasm around 
the studio for this tale about two mice named Bianca and 
Bernard. Members of the Prisoner's Aid & Rescue Society, 
an international all-mouse organization headquartered in 
the basement of the United Nations building, they are 
dispatched to the swamps along the gulf coast to rescue a 
small girl held captive by two mysterious villains, who 
make their home aboard an abandoned riverboat. 

Eva Gabor, Bob Newhart, Geraldine Page and the late 
Joe Flynn are among those who have done voice character- 
izations. Phil Harris has been cast as Colonel Bullfrog, 
whose Swamp Volunteers join in the rescue effort. 

Work on “The Rescuers” is progressing so well that our 
animation story team has begun developing two additional 
feature properties: “The Cauldron”, a story by Lloyd 
Alexander based upon a Welsh fairy tale; and “The Fox 
and the Hound”, a ‘‘Bambi-like”’ story by Daniel P. Mannix, 


| IN AUSTRALIA: Producer Jerome Courtland visits youthful in which a kit fox and a hound pup, who play together as 
actor Robert Bettles on location for "Ride a Wild Pony” 





10 









children, become enemies when they have grown up. 
In live action production, Jerome Courtland, a new 
member of our producing team who guided the filming of 
“Escape to Witch Mountain”, has just completed principal 
photography on “Ride a Wild Pony", which will be released 
in early 1976. Filmed in England and Australia, this is a 
classic drama about a tough Australian farm boy and a 
crippled young heiress, who each claim to be the owner of 
a pony. The local judge finally lets the pony make the 
decision for himself. 
In “Gus”, our next comedy, a mule with a talent for 
kicking 100-yard field goals ends up being drafted by a 
losing professional football team. It will begin production 
next April. 
Bill Walsh is developing another wacky comedy entitled 
“The Arf Ticket’, a follow-up to ‘The Shaggy Dog”. Our 
hero has now grown up and is running for the United States 
Senate, but at critical moments, he keeps turning into a 
sheep dog. 

“Pit Ponies”, a drama set in a northern England mining 
community in the early 1900's, traces two brothers and 
their campaign to save two blind ponies, which have spent 
their entire lives pulling ore carts through coal mining 
tunnels. The ponies are ultimately brought to the surface, 
but are returned to help save men trapped in a cave-in. 

Jerome Courtland has begun preparing “The Lost Ones”, 
a drama of survival, in which three young children stow 
away in an effort to visit their father, an Air Force officer 
| doing arctic research on a remote island off Norway. 
| The children mistakenly scramble from the supply plane 
at the wrong island and become stranded. 


SECRET OF OLD GLORY MINE: /n this Harry 
Tytle-produced adventure-comedy, two ring-tailed 
cats surprise an old prospector who has just 
discovered a rich vein of silver (left) 


DEACON, THE HIGH NOON DOG: Roger Miller 
narrates and sings several songs in this 
Roy E. Disney-produced spoof on every 





THE WONDERFUL WORLD OF DISNEY: Among 
the episodes planned for this popular Sunday night 
NBC-TV series during 1975 are 


THE SKY'S THE LIMIT: A retired World War | flying 
ace and his cranky sidekick restore a tattered old 
bi-plane in this two-part comedy-drama produced 
by Ron Miller and co-produced by Tom Leetch 
Pat O'Brien and Ike Eisenmann (above) star 


with Lloyd Nolan. 





western ever made (right) 


Bill Anderson is preparing a new property for Tim Conway 
and Don Knotts, who created such an outstanding comedy 
team in “The Apple Dumpling Gang”. A story by Tim 
Conway, “They Went That-a-way and That-a-way'' focuses 
on two comic policemen. When the girl who once saved 
their lives goes into a women’s prison on a secret 
undercover mission, they sneak into the prison dressed 
as women inmates and try to break her out, almost 
sabotaging her mission in the process. 

Winston Hibler has begun work on the next epic 
adventure to be filmed by the Disney studios, “Space 
Station I’. Set in the year 2016, the project will call upon the 
organization's talents in special effects to capture on film 
the perils of a sophisticated space station which is virtually 
torn apart by a supra Nova shock, and is being drawn 
toward a ‘“‘black hole" in space. 

Television production activities are now focusing on 
programming for the 1975-76 season of ‘The Wonderful 
World of Disney”. In the face of strong new competition, the 
series has performed magnificently this past fall, reaching 
some of the largest total audiences in its history. 

The series is now set through September, 1977, and the 
Company has extended options to NBC, which would allow 
the network to broadcast the series through the summer 
of 1978. 

Allin all, |I am gratified by the dedication of our entire 
production team, and their commitment to maintaining 
Walt Disney Productions’ leadership position in the field of 


family entertainment. 
bs |p beer 


11 








H OISNEYLAND-ALWEG N 











Revenues 
Admissions 

and rides $42,998,000 $40,221,000 $42,281,000 $46,869,000 $48,947,000 
Merchandise 

sales 14,678,000 15,765,000 16,881,000 20,134,000 23,061,000 
Food sales 15,925,000 15,471,000 16,332,000 18,555,000 19,813,000 
Lessee and i 

other rentals 5,782,000 5,797,000 6,040,000 5,126,000 5,214,000 
Other 519,000 578,000 660,000 505,000 437,000 
Total $79,902,000 $77,832,000 $82,194,000 $91,189,000 $97,472,000 

Disneyland 


Attendance declined 4.5% during fiscal 1974, a commend- 
able performance in light of the disruptions to vacation 
travel caused by energy-related uncertainties. Revenues 
increased 6.9% to $97,472,000, reflecting higher per capita 
spending throughout the year and an 8-12% admission 
media price increase effected on June 16, to offset rising 
costs in labor, goods and utilities. 

(Disneyland’s own energy conservation program resulted 
in a 19% reduction in the use of electricity and a 27.5% 
reduction in the use of natural gas.) 

More Southern California residents visited Disneyland 
during fiscal 1974 than during any other year in the Park's 
history. Many families chose to visit attractions near their 
homes, and as a result, local attendance was up 11.4% 
over the previous year, balancing to some extent a larger 
decline in out-of-state tourism. 

Group sales, also primarily a local marketing function, 
increased by 8% during the year. 

In addition, the marketing staff, working with the Walt 
Disney Travel Company, developed several successful 
air line tourist packages and promotions, carried out by Air 
California in the San Francisco Bay area, by American 
Airlines throughout the Eastern Seaboard, by Continental 
Airlines in mid-western cities, and by Western Airlines 
in the western United States and Mexico City. 

Sears-Roebuck completed a major Disneyland promotion, 
offering contest winners in 25 key markets a trip to 


13 





Disneyland for a special premiere screening of the new 
animated featurette, ‘Winnie the Pooh and Tigger Too”. 

The Park benefits from having a 12,000,000 Southern 
California population base upon which to draw. A number 
of special promotions including newspaper, radio and 
television advertising campaigns designed to increase 
Disneyland’s penetration of this local market, resulted in a 
10% increase in repeat visits during the year. 

The June opening of “America Sings” was also an 
important factor in stimulating repeat visits during the 
summer months. Located in Tomorrowland’s Carousel 
Theater, this 24-minute, four-stage show features more than 
100 “Audio-Animatronics” animals, who lead guests 
through four eras in American musical history—the Early 
South. Old West, Gay Nineties and Modern Times. 

The spectacular ‘‘America on Parade’, which will 
premiere at both Disneyland and Walt Disney World in 
June. 1975, will perhaps be the most elaborate continuing 
event staged anywhere in celebration of America’s 
Bicentennial. 30 minutes of moving pageantry dedicated 
to the American life, spirit and freedom, “America on 
Parade” will be staged in both theme parks every day they 
are open for 14 months, concluding in September, 1976. 
This exciting concept will be an important reason for both 
local residents and out-of-state tourists to include a Disney 
theme park in their vacation or recreational plans during 
the next two years. 





AMERICA SINGS: Count Basie, Carol 
DeKeyser, Disneyland’s 1974 
Ambassador, and Mickey Mouse 
officiated at the opening ceremonies 
for the Park's 54th attraction on June 
28. This carousel of song features more 
than 100 “‘Audio-Animatronics 
animals in a humorous review of our 
nation’s 200-year musical history 





PARADE PRODUCTION: Costumers and 
model builders take the first steps in the 
creation of “America on Parade’, 
scheduled to appear at Disneyland and 
Walt Disney World for fourteen months, 
beginning in June, 1975. 








The Disney organization's contribution to 
America’s Bicentennial celebration, 
“America on Parade” will be the first major 
extravaganza ever produced for joint 
performance at Disneyland and Walt Disney 
World. Premiering in both theme parks 
during June, 1975, it will continue until 
September, 1976. The event will be televised 
nationally in June or July, 1975. 

Depicting America’s founding, its creations 
and its people, and culminating ina 
spectacular moving celebration of the 4th 
of July, “America on Parade”’ will feature 36 
major moving set pieces, each 22 feet 
high, more than 100 other stylized props, 
and approximately 300 live participants in a 
lighthearted 30-minute procession down 
Main Street. 

Ushering in a whole new era in costume 
design and staging for outdoor pageantry, 
the parade, now in production, calls upon the 
full imagination and creativity of the Disney 
organization in the styling of costumes, 
props and moving show pieces. Hundreds 
of guest marching bands will appear in 
“America on Parade” during its 14-month 
engagement at the two theme parks. 











and rides $ 54,518,000 $ 62,182,000 $ 64,479,000 
Merchandise 
sales 29,250,000 36,702,000 40,855,000 
Food sales 33,199,000 40,207,000 44,547,000 
Lodging 16,518,000 22,443,000 26,633,000 
Lessee and 
other rentals 4,030,000 5,386,000 5,305,000 
Other 1,296,000 1,242,000 700,000 
Total $138,811,000 $168,162,000 $182,519,000 
Walt Disney World 
Attendance at Walt Disney World's ‘Magic Kingdom” theme 
park declined by 6.5% to 10,834,000 during fiscal 1974, 
almost entirely a reflection of public uncertainties about 
vacation travel during the peak months of the energy crisis. 


In the Company’s fourth fiscal quarter, when fuel was 
again generally available, attendance rebounded to within 
2% of 1973's all-time record level. 

The number of guests arriving by means other than 
automobile increased 33% to 2,166,000, indicating some 
adjustment in travel plans in response to the energy 
situation. 

The number of automobiles entering the state of Florida, 
which had declined by as much as 41% in February and 
49% in March, was within 10% of the previous year in 
August. The decline was approximately 20% for the 
year as a whole. Therefore, Walt Disney World, in 1974, 
attracted a larger percentage of the available tourist market 
than it did in the previous year. 

24% of all attendance represented repeat visits, a figure 
almost double that of Disneyland during its third full year 
of operation. In order to encourage additional visits to 
the “Magic Kingdom”, thereby increasing the length of stay, 
two-day, 17-ride ticket books, which include a ticket to 
visit the recently opened “Treasure Island’, are being sold 
through local hotels and motels. 

21% of all theme park admissions were sold through the 
"Magic Kingdom Club", an effective nationwide Disney 
marketing organization, which reaches over 4,000,000 
members through 10,500 chapters at corporations, military 
bases, labor unions, and other associations throughout 
the country. 

In actual numbers of residents, Florida is the fastest 
growing state in America. From April, 1970 to July, 1974, 
its population grew by approximately 1,300,000 people, 





increasing by 19% to more than 8,000,000. This local 
market accounted for 28% of all theme park visitation 
during the year. 

Total revenues at Walt Disney World increased 8.5% to 
$182.519,000, partially due to a 12-15% increase in theme 
park admission media placed in effect on June 16. However, 
reflecting the general economic conditions which have 
affected all businesses during the past year, the Company 
experienced increases in labor and material costs, and in 
such fixed costs as property taxes, utilities and depreciation. 
These offset much of the increase in revenues. Through 
efficient management of operations, total labor man-hours 
were actually less than in fiscal 1973, even though a number 
of major new attractions were opened during the year. 

In late October, 1974, the 1,200 employees represented 
by the Craft Maintenance Council ratified a new two-year 
labor agreement which will remain in effect until October 1, 
1976. The Craft Maintenance Council includes Local and 
International unions representing bricklayers, carpenters, 
electricians, ironworkers, laborers, operating engineers, 
painters, plumbers and teamsters. 

Walt Disney World's three resort-hotels—the Contem- 
porary, the Polynesian Village and the Golf Resort— 
operated at a combined occupancy rate of 96% for the 
entire fiscal year. 

in late 1973, management began allocating a larger 
percentage of our available hotel capacity to convention 
sales. As a result, some 245,000 room-nights, or 80% of the 
total capacity of our three resort-hotels for the six months 
following November 1, 1974, had already been sold as 
of that date. 

Utilization of the 714 campsites in the 1,000-acre Fort 
Wilderness complex increased by 9%. The campgrounds 
experienced a 70% occupancy rate for the entire year, 





=— —— —— T xa Sussssar- 


being filled to capacity during the summer and most 
holiday periods. 

The Fort Wilderness “Swimming Hole”, a major 
recreational facility, is now being planned for the area. 
Along with the other existing attractions and activities now 
available in Fort Wilderness, this themed swimming 
area will make it possible for the Company to develop a 
ticket book for the campground recreational activities. 

“Pioneer Hall”, a major entertainment, restaurant and 
arcade facility, opened in March and soon established itself 
as a popular guest attraction and profitable operation. 
Twice as many guests come from the resort-hotels to attend 
the dinner show in Pioneer Hall than from the campgrounds 
themselves. 

“Treasure Island”, an 11-acre island in the middle of 
Bay Lake featuring winding paths, streams, a botanical 
garden and more than 500 rare tropical birds, opened to 
visitors for Easter. The attraction has operated profitably 
since opening and offers an additional dimension to our 
Walt Disney World marketing program. 

During the first half of 1975, the “Magic Kingdom” will 
reach its projected capacity of 70,000 rides-per-hour, 
about equal to Disneyland in California. This will mark the 
completion of a major capital investment program designed 
to expand peak operating capacity—a goal established 
prior to opening and achieved almost two years ahead of 
schedule. 

In December, 1973, the “Pirates of the Caribbean”, an 
adaptation of the famous Disneyland attraction began 
operations, with a guest capacity of 4,200 per hour. The 
attraction is the focal point of Caribbean Plaza, a themed 
complex of shops and refreshment areas. 

An expanded Grand Prix Raceway, presented by 
Goodyear, reopened in time for the Christmas, 1973 season, 
and “Magic Carpet ‘Round the World'', a spectacular 





THE POLYNESIAN VILLAGE: 492 rooms 
amid the leisurely atmosphere of the “south 
seas” 


18 





THE CONTEMPORARY 
RESORT-HOTEL: Sleek monorail 
trains glide through the Grand 
Canyon concourse of this 
1.057-room resort-hotel. 


— 


golf resort’ e 


Cares = 





é“ E 


ae lit ih aag rey? ye Be 
É E 4 af b l 


ze 


THE GOLF RESORT: Home of the 1974 
Walt Disney World Golf Classic -the 
PGA National Team Championship 

won by Hubert Green and Ma 
McLendon 





filmed travel adventure, premiered in Monsanto's 360° 
Circle-Vision pavilion in March. 

The year’s most significant forward step at Walt Disney 
World has been the extension of Tomorrowland. Towering 
over the area is the new 176-foot high “Space Mountain”, 
presented by RCA. This cone-shaped structure, wider in 
diameter than a football field, houses perhaps the most 
dazzling and exciting amusement attraction in history. The 
attraction will celebrate its Grand Opening on January 15. 

Visitors enter the “Space Mountain” via a ‘‘Star Corridor’, 
where they may look through unique ‘‘windows in space” 
to see orbiting communications satellites at work in outer 
space. Upon their arrival at the “Launch Platform’, guests 
board eight-passenger space capsules for a breathtaking 
race through ‘‘outer space’, experiencing the simulated 
sensations of “pitch and yaw” and the “forces of G” ina 
spectacular return to earth. After disembarking, visitors are 
carried on a moving ramp past RCA’s “Home of Future 
Living’, where they will view a whole new world of 
electronic technology for the home. 

Also commencing operation in January is the General 
Electric ‘‘Carousel of Progress”. This free attraction offers 








CARIBBEAN PLAZA: Home of the famous 
‘Pirates of the Caribbean” (below), this 
complex of shops and refreshment areas 
opened in the “Magic Kingdom” early in 
fiscal 1974 








Building; completion of “The Center’, a building to house 
employee services and other administrative activities; 
and a main entrance wardrobe and utilities building. 

Additional utility lines were installed in the Community of 
Lake Buena Vista to support future residential development; 
“The Village”, a regionally-oriented complex of 32 boutique 
and handicraft shops, convenience food stores and water- 
front restaurants, now under construction and scheduled for 
opening next Easter; and the newly-opened Lake Buena 
Vista Club, the community's family recreational center. 

In July, the Company entered into an agreement with the 
Grant Corporation subsidiary of Santa Anita Consolidated, 
Inc., to study the feasibility of developing an adult retirement 
community, a complex of vacation towne homes, corporate- 
executive retreats located along the fairways of the Lake 
Buena Vista golf course, and moderately priced residential 


guests a nostalgic view of the role of electricity in four 
eras of American life. The final act has been redesigned to 
incorporate the life styles and technology of the 1970's. 
The popular “Star Jets”, from which guests may look 
down upon the “Magic Kingdom” while whirling 60 feet 
above the ground, opened for the Thanksgiving holidays. 
A fourth major Tomorrowland attraction, the ‘““WEDway 
PeopleMover”’ is now under construction with completion 
planned for June. Here, 32 five-car “trains” will travel 
almost one mile of elevated track, propelled by anew 
Disney-engineered and designed linear motor. This totally 
pollution-free propulsion system creates a magnetic field 
which “pushes” the trains along their route. Now being 
made available to third parties through the Community 
Transportation Services Division, the “‘WEDway People- 


Mover" may one day be installed in airports, shopping 
centers and other downtown areas. apartments, all on lands now owned by Disney. 


Elsewhere in Walt Disney World during the year, the After preliminary study, the Grant Corporation determined 
Company moved ahead with additional utilities, employee that they did not feel the property east of Interstate Highway 
services and other needed support facilities. Among the “4” was suited for the type of adult retirement community 








major items were the expansion of the Central Eneray Plant; envisioned. | 
the Company’s investment in a new World Telephone 


Although both Companies remain interested in building 





TOMORROWLAND: This exciting "Magic Kingdom’ expansion program 


Space Mountain". General Electric's “Carousel of Progress” and the popular 


the towne homes, corporate-executive retreats and 
residential apartments, the Grant Corporation, which is 
responsible for financing these projects, has been slowed 
in its efforts by the general economic conditions which have 
hindered residential construction activities throughout the 
United States. Grant must notify Disney further of its plans 
for these projects during the early part of 1975. 

Meanwhile, the existing Lake Buena Vista Villas and the 
community's recreational activities are being marketed 
by the Walt Disney Travel Company under a new corporate 
Incentive Travel Package. 


20 








In summary, Walt Disney World, which in only three years 
of operation has recorded more than 33,000,000 theme 
park admissions, has firmly established itself as one of the 
most popular recreational destinations in the world. Fiscal 
1974, although a difficult year, brought valuable experience 
to the project’s young management team. Looking beyond 
the economic uncertainties which faced the United States 
at the end of 1974, the Company believes that it has, at 
Walt Disney World, the finest total recreation complex in the 
world—one which will attract larger and larger audiences 
in the years to come. 





The Disney Fine Arts Work Experience Program: Presented in association 
with California Institute of the Arts, the professional-level school for the 
creative and performing arts founded by Walt Disney, this highly innovative 
program brought college credit and a full summer of valuable professional 
experience to 98 young collegiate performers from all over the United States. 

Aimed at bridging the gap between academic training and the realities of 
the professional show business world, this twelve-week, tuition-free work- 
shop was conducted at both Disneyland and Walt Disney World. Through the 
cooperation of participating labor unions and the students’ home colleges, 
these young people, chosen by audition from more than 400 applicants, 
were paid to both work and study under top-name professionals. 

In both theme parks, students appeared regularly in one of two ensem- 
bles. “The All-American College Marching Band” and "The Kids of the 
Kingdom”. At Walt Disney World, two additional units were formed— 

a Jamaican Police Band and a musical comedy team which staged popular 
audience participation shows in “Pioneer Hall”, the new theater-restaurant 
in Fort Wilderness. 

This immensely suc 


essful program will be expanded and repeated in 
both theme parks next er. 




















fi. á sar ee dya 


| at Fort Wilderness 


21 


LAKE BUENA VISTA: The “Village”, a 110,000-square 
foot, regionally oriented restaurant and shopping 
complex, is now under construction adiacent to Motor 
Inn Plaza (above). The Lake Buena Vista Club (right) 
will be the focal point for a wide variety of recreational 
activities available to both residents and guests 


Ta. ` 












of this community 






INTERNATIONAL ATTRACTIONS 
WED technicians are now developing 
models and renderings of “World 
Showcase” attractions for presentation 
fo representatives of foreign govern- 
ments, including France (right) 

and Japan (below) 


WED Enterprises 


The words of Walt Disney, above, best describe the 
philosophy and creative atmosphere at WED Enterprises, 
the Disney master planning, architectural, engineering, 
research and development organization. 

After more than 20 years’ experience, during which the 
WED team master planned and developed Disneyland 
and Walt Disney World into the premiere recreational 
attractions they are today, this vital creative division of 
Walt Disney Productions has amassed a great wealth of 


knowledge in such diverse areas as transportation systems, 


environmental planning, communications, construction 
technology and “people handling”’. This expertise, as 
applied at Walt Disney World, has made the Company's 
Florida project an innovative model, which is studied 

by numerous professionals in engineering, environmental 
management and city planning each year. 

The “imagineers” at WED, continually assessing the 
needs of our destination attractions, have already 
developed a wide variety of new entertainment and recrea- 
tion concepts, which will be introduced by management 
as they are needed in the years immediately ahead. 
Therefore, the WED team has turned the main thrust of its 


22 


activities toward the further development of a complete 
master plan for the Company's Florida properties, a master 
plan which includes Walt Disney's concept for EPCOT— 
the Experimental Prototype Community of Tomorrow. 


The Experimental Prototype Community of Tomorrow 
Walt Disney described EPCOT as “a community of 
tomorrow that will never be completed but will always be 
introducing and testing and demonstrating new materials 
and new systems”. 

From the outset of planning and through the design, 
construction and installation stages of Walt Disney World, 
EPCOT has been the ultimate goal, as evidenced by the 
innovative systems, devices, materials and construction 
techniques already in use there. 

However, 1975 will mark the first period of concentrated 
planning and design for the ‘‘centers of activity” within 
EPCOT itself. Wide ranging discussions will be held with 
representatives of world governments, leading business- 
men, engineers, scientists and artists, for only through 
their cooperation will the Company be able to bring this 
immense concept to life. 

Implementing a master plan for the Company's total 
central Florida property, the second phase of the Walt 
Disney World project will include a series of EPCOT 
"Satellites". Not necessarily a physical area or facility, a 
satellite” may be defined as a function or activity that 
affects the quality of life, defines and develops new 
concepts to meet the needs of mankind, or helps to 
stimulate understanding between the peoples of the world. 

Initial “satellite” projects under discussion by the WED 
planning team include centers for corporate training 





nel Ra 


_ ea pt ales eld agp PM IES ai 


* 
ws : - ra 








rae yis 





a ` P ght AVS r iè - 4 : Tio ` 
. = te Pr a + 2 Papas : 
' : N. "= 3 


. ANN 18 
oer ae 


and industrial research, energy and the environment, design 
and the arts, communications and the media, educational 
research, the sciences, experimental and prototype living 
environments, a health and medical data bank, a major 
computer center, and the “World Showcase”. 


“The World Showcase” The first major step in the 
evolution of EPCOT will be the “World Showcase”, a 
permanent international showcase through which the 
nations of the world may creatively communicate their 
history, their culture and their commerce. 

Encompassing an area nearly as large as the “Magic 
Kingdom” theme park, the ‘World Showcase” will feature 
continuing entertainment and exhibitions created by 
WED Enterprises for nations and leading companies around 
the world. Each will utilize a Disney-developed “people- 
moving” system to transport guests through attractions 
designed to offer a foretaste of an actual visit to that country. 
They will also function as international trade centers, 
promoting the products and services of each nation. 

The “World Showcase” will not have the short-term 
outlook common to World's Fairs, on which millions 
of dollars have been spent to reach a limited audience for 
a limited period of time. Rather, the “World Showcase” 
will be a permanent facility, complementing the existing 
“Vacation Kingdom" and conveniently accessible to the 
more than ten million people who visit Walt Disney World 
each year. Nations will not find themselves competing 
with each other for the visitors’ attention, since the WED 
team has conceived the complex as a coordinated series of 
attractions housed in two semi-circular and modular 
structures, in the center of which will be a “Courtyard of 


E eb. 4 


ham ames; J begs PAE A ala 


23 






THE “WORLD SHOWCASE”: Three key members of the WED 
creative team, Marty Sklar, Claude Coats and John Hench, 
review a model of the “World Showcase’, an important 
“satellite” center now being planned for the Experimental 
Prototype Community of Tomorrow At the top of the page !s a 
rendering showing how the “World Showcase” might relate 
to the existing Walt Disney World “Vacation Kingdom". 


Nations”, where cultural events will be staged and a major 
theater complex will be located. 

The “World Showcase” will be financed through the 
participating nations and industries, and will make possible 
the development of an entirely new “center” for quest 
activity, so large in scope it will give visitors added reason 
to extend their stay at Walt Disney World. 

It will provide an opportunity for young adults to come 
together from all over the world to staff the ‘“‘World 
Showcase” and study in the “satellite” centers of EPCOT. 






















COMMUNITY TRANSPORTATION Si RVICES: New 


intra-city “people-moving” concepts for EPCOT 
and other applications are now being Jeveloped 
at WED, where the linear motor is being tested 
(below) for installation at Walt Disney World 
during 1975 


The 
Community 
Transportation 
Services 
Division 


Organized early in 1974, this new division brings to the field 
of community mass transportation more than 20 years of 
experience in efficient “‘people-moving” at Disneyland 


and Walt Disney World. In that time. Disney-designed and THE “AUDIO-ANIMATRONICS" SYSTEM si g 
: er contribution of WED Enterprises in the area o snow 

operated systems have carried visitors to our two theme development utilizes electronics and pneumatics to bring 
parks more than 400 million passenger miles. In Florida, lifelike movement and sound to eae ash ete 
for example, the 10-train Mark IV monorail system has Here, sculptor Blaine Gibson completes work on nA 

! P i President Gerald R. Ford, the first step in the creation o anew 
carried more than 60 million passengers approximately “Audio-Animatronics” figure, which will soon take its place in 
1.5 million train-miles during only three years of operation. the “Hall of Presidents” at Walt Disney World 


The Community Transportation Services Division was 
formed to apply the Company's monorail and ‘“‘WEDway 
PeopleMover" systems, and adaptations thereof, to the 
short-range, intra-city transportation needs of airports, 
shopping centers, communities, and other governmental 
and private projects. In addition to licensing Disney- 
developed systems for these applications. this new division 
will make available the expertise of the Disney transpor- 
tation team for consulting work in the master planning and 
design of these systems, and the administration of their 
construction and installation. 

Solving the intra-city rapid transit problems of our urban 
centers is one of the most pressing needs facing our cities 
today. The Disney organization is capable of making a 
major contribution to this effort. 





24 





eee 





THEME PARK PLANN!|! 
Disneyland, WED Ent 
master planning, crea! 
the attractions at Di 

the first steps in the / 
scale model of the at! 
as is being done wit! 
ride” under considerat 


e the inception of 


es has been responsible for 


esigning and fabricating all of 


nd and Walt Disney World. One of 


; process is the creation of a 
analyze its show aspects, 
el of a new Pinocchio “dark 


ror Di S neyland 











AT INDEPENDENCE LAKE: Four 
members of Disney s 
Conservation Advisory 
Committee -William E. Toweil 
Executive Vice President, the 
American Forestry Association 
Dr. Ira N. Gabrielson, former 
President, the Wildlife Man- 
agement Institute; Thomas L 
Kimball, Executive Director, the 
National Wildlife Federation; and 
Bestor Robinson, former 
President, the Sierra Club-Join 
project manager Robert Hicks 
Peter Schneider of Southern 
Pacific Land Company, and Fred 
Harden, manager of Walt Disney 
World's Environmental Protection 
Department, to review the site of 
the Company s proposed 
year-round outdoor recreational 
project. (Not present was Horace 
M. Albright, former Director, the 
National Park Service) 


25 


The Independence Lake Project 


In July, the Company began formally to study the feasibility 
of developing a year-round family recreational resort on 
private lands owned by Southern Pacific Land Company and 
Sierra Pacific Power Company in the Independence Lake- 
Mt. Lola region of Northern California. 

Preliminary findings indicate that the site, 13 miles north 
of Truckee, is ideally suited for a destination resort. The 
mountains surrounding Independence Lake offer a wide 
range of winter sports opportunities, with many slopes 
particularly suited for beginning and intermediate skiers, 
who comprise the vast majority of winter vacationing 
families. The lake itself, approximately 21⁄2 miles long and 
formed by an earthen dam, contributes greatly to the natural 
beauty of the area, and brings yet another dimension to 
the project's winter and summer recreational potentials. 

The site, north of Lake Tahoe and beyond the contro- 
versial Tahoe Basin, is easily accessible to both winter and 
summer visitors to that region. 

The environmental analysis and feasibility study is being 
conducted by WED Enterprises, which would be responsible 
for master planning the project. During the study period, 
which should be concluded by summer, 1975, the three 
companies will negotiate a partnership agreement in which 
it is contemplated that the Walt Disney Outdoor Recreation 
Division would be the general and operating partner. 
Southern Pacific Land Company and the Lands of the Sierra 
subsidiary of Sierra Pacific Power Company, as the limited 
partners, would contribute 7.300 acres and 2,200 acres, 
respectively, although only a small fraction of these lands 
would actually be involved in the project. 

Walt Disney Productions began a nationwide search for 
an appropriate site for an outdoor recreational project 
about two years ago, when it became evident that prolonged 
litigation between the federal government and the Sierra 
Club would prevent the development of Mineral King 
in the foreseeable future. 

A number of additional problems have since arisen 
concerning the feasibility of the project, including an 
unresolved question as to whether the National Park Service 
has the authority to grant the necessary right-of-way for 
access to the project, and how the public access system 
itself would be financed. It is becoming increasingly unlikely 
that the Company will ever be able to achieve at Mineral 
King the conveniently accessible and moderately priced 
family recreation center Walt Disney originally envisioned. 




















Consumer 
Products and 
Services 


em 
P. oh 


»O 


Wirnic tke 


v 
amr 


Building upon an ever-growing library of classic Disney 
characters and a broadening worldwide acceptance 

for consumer products bearing the Disney name, these 
ancillary businesses, which include the Walt Disney 
Educational Media Company, have experienced a 162% 
increase in revenues since 1970. 


Music and Records The leading revenue-producing 
category in the Consumer Products group, our music 
publishing and phonograph record businesses reported a 
12% increase in revenues during fiscal 1974. The new 
sound track ''story-teller'' album from “Robin Hood” 
experienced strong sales, as did the entire Catalog of Disney 
children’s records. In fact, the Disneyland and Buena Vista 
labels are the largest selling line of children’s records 

in the world, marketed in 30 countries and in 14 different 
languages. On a per capita basis, the greatest number 

of Disney records are sold in France. 

The Direct Mail record marketing program enjoyed its 
best year to date, registering $4,500,000 in gross sales, with 
an excellent reception for a 50th Anniversary package 
of eight classic “‘story-teller’ albums. 





26 


1970 1971 


1972 _ 





RECORDS AND CHARACTER 
MERCHANDISE: New products which 
will contribute to these important 
revenue-producing divisions 

during 1975. 


Character Merchandising The Company both licenses 
the Disney cartoon characters for use by third parties, 
and contracts for the direct manufacture. import and 
wholesale distribution of such major lines of merchandise 
as plush toys, inflatables, decorative and personal gifts, 
and soft goods. Revenues from these activities increased 
16% during the year. 

In less than five years as a Disney licensee, Kennington, 
Ltd., has utilized the Disney characters to develop one of the 
most successful lines of men's sport shirts and T-shirts, 
women's shirts, halters and jerseys, and ski and tennis 
sweaters in the United States. Public response has been so 
great that more than 40 different Disney designs are now 
in the permanent Kennington collection, with new designs 
being added each year. 

The Walt Disney Distributing Company, Disney's 
subsidiary for the direct manufacture and wholesale 
distribution of character merchandise, began a major 
expansion of its foreign operations during 1974, and is now 
represented in 17 countries. 


The Educational Media Company Fiscal 1974 brought 
$12,534,000 in revenues, an increase of 46%. The 
Company concentrates its efforts in three distinct markets— 
educational, home and rental. All three contributed to the 
substantial growth rate of the past year. 


1975 AMBASSADORS: The newly 
chosen Disneyland and Walt Disney 


World Ambassadors, Kathy Smith (top) 
and Suzy O'Hara (right), model 

Disney character shirts and jerseys 
from Kennington, Ltd 


In a competitive market of more than 300 such 
companies, the Walt Disney Educational Media Company 
now ranks among the top ten producers and distributors of 
educational films, filmstrips, records, study prints, 8mm 
single concept loops and other audio-visual teaching aids. 
95 new products were added to the WDEMCO catalog 
during the year, reflecting an acceleration of both marketing 
and product development activities. 

The Company is also responsible for the direct 
distribution of both silent and sound super 8mm home 
movies, all excerpted from Disney theatrical and television 
films, During 1974, the 8mm division initiated a distribution 
agreement with the Walt Disney Music Company whereby 
these films are being marketed as home entertainment 
items and sold in department stores, toy stores, and 
other retail merchandise outlets. 

The worldwide non-theatrical rental of Walt Disney 16mm 
entertainment features, featurettes and cartoons has been 
a mainstay of WOEMCO's responsibilities. 

In each of its three businesses, the international division 
also had its best year in 1974, with new dealer arrangements 
being established in Hong Kong, Brazil, Spain, Japan, 
Mexico and Venezuela. 


Publications Itis estimated that in excess of $1 60,000,000 
in worldwide retail sales were generated by publications 














PUBLICATIONS: 
Products from 
Western Publishing 
Company, Inc., a 

major licensee | 
since 1933 


either licensed or produced by Walt Disney Productions 
during 1974. The cornerstone of this far-flung worldwide 
publications program is Western Publishing Company, Inc., 
which has been a Disney licensee since 1933. Since 1971, 
Western has introduced 728 new Disney products, including 
picture and storybooks, and activity products like coloring 
books, sticker fun and punch outs. More than 55,000,000 
Disney items were distributed to the marketplace by Western 
in 1974, with royalties to Disney exceeding $1,000,000. 

“The Art of Walt Disney—from Mickey Mouse to the 
Magic Kingdoms”, a deluxe 458-page tribute to Walt Disney 
and the artistic accomplishments of his organization, 
has become a milestone in publishing history. Introduced 
by the renowned publishers of art books, Harry N. Abrams, 
Inc., in October, 1973, the book was offered at a suggested 
retail price of $45, and has now sold in excess of 230,000 
copies. It has been direct marketed by the Literary Guild, 
the Book-of-the-Month Club and Time-Life. In 1975, 
Abrams will introduce a soft-cover edition retailing at $7.95, 
with an initial printing of 500,000 copies. Foreign language 
editions are now being negotiated. 

“Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Reading”, a children's 
book club published by Random House, Inc., with direct 
mail marketing and management handled by Grolier 
Enterprises, Inc., now has approximately 750,000 members. 

















Photo: Susie Tracy, Business Week 





s=" 


EZ kam PE r= `". . L 
VETS 

GA E _ rnilerehla 
p> Pee 


sy 












CHILDREN'S BOOK CLUB: These E. CARDON WALKER* 
volumes from “The Wonderful President and : 
World of Reading” now reach š ; I 
750,000 beginning readers. Chief shoe 
j | 
DONN B. TATUM* 
Chairman of the Board 
Under this concept, beginning readers receive one and Chief ~~ 
cer 


children’s book each month. Calling upon the strength and 
appeal of the Disney characters in newly-written stories, 
the series is designed to stimulate young children to begin 
reading on their own. Based upon initial tests, the series 
will be introduced in Germany, France, the United Kingdom 
and Scandinavia during 1975. 

“The Wonderful World of Knowledge", a 20-volume set 
of educational children’s books, also marketed by direct 
mail, has achieved more than $25,000,000 in United States 
retail sales during the past two years. The series has also 
become one of the most successful direct marketed projects 
in the history of the United Kingdom. 

Disney publications have also performed spectacularly 
in Europe. In Italy, for example, “Topolino”, the Mickey l N ' = | 
Mouse magazine published by Mondadori, sells approxi- S. CLARK BEISE RICHARD T. MORROW ` 
mately 1,000,000 copies per week. In the four Scandinavian Bieri sr bq Mass E 
countries, where the total population is only 22,000,000, 
a Donald Duck magazine published by Gutenberghus 
also sells about 1,000,000 copies per week. 


GORDON 

E. YOUNGMAN* 
Senior Partner 

_ Youngman, 

`. Hungate 

| and Leopold 








COMIC BOOKS 


eee O GEORGE L. BAGNALL** 
these Disney comics President 

are sold in the Scandi- : 

navian countries and Motion Picture & 

in Italy each week. Television Fund 


(Mr. Bagnall and Mr. Youngman were photographed 
while touring the Country House operated by the 
Motion Picture & Television Fund, of which Mr. Bagnall 


28 has been President since 1957). 





WILLIAM H. 
ANDERSON 
Vice President 
Production 
and Studio 
Operations 





HON. SHIRLEY TEMPLE BLACK 
United States Ambassador 


RONALD W. MILLER* 
Vice President 


ROY E. DISNEY* 
Vice President 





Executive Producer 16mm Production to Ghana 
WALT DISNEY PRODUCTIONS 

1974 1973 
Revenues $429,889,000 $385,065,000 
Income before taxes on income $ 88,528,000 $ 85,168,000 
RAYMOND L. WATSON Taxes on income . $ 40,200,000 $ 37,400,000 
ERREA igaran Net income . $ 48,328,000 $ 47,768,000 
Per share . $1.66 $1.64 
Capital expenditures . $ 67,241,000 $ 85,752,000 
Total assets . $742,616,000 $678,807,000 
| Long term liabilities $ 60,801,000 $ 44,407,000 
seem a Stockholders equity . $552,478,000 — $506,446,000 

Per common share outstanding 

at yearend . $18.94 $17.72 
Common shares outstanding 29,171,924 28,583,779 
Number of stockholders . 55,000 49,000 
Number of full-time employees 14,000 14,500 


B OoOo O o N O oO U 


The Company’s principal business is the production 
and distribution of theatrical and television films and 
the operation of two amusement theme parks, 
“Disneyland,” California, and "Walt Disney World,” 
Florida, which are referred to as entertainment and 
recreational activities. In addition, the Company has 
operations including music and records, character 
merchandising and publication licensing and 
manufacture, educational media materials and a 
sports center complex. To more fully inform the reader, 
the following summary of the Company's significant 
accounting policies is presented as an integral part of 
the financial statements. 


PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION 

The consolidated financial statements include the 
accounts of the Company and its domestic and foreign 
subsidiaries, all wholly owned. The Company's 
investments in joint ventures are recorded at equity 

in their underlying net assets and are included 

in other assets. 

The accounts of foreign subsidiaries have been 
translated into U.S. dollars at appropriate rates of 
exchange and the resulting net unrealized gain, which 
is minor, has been deferred. 


INVENTORIES 

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. 
Costs of merchandise, material and supply inventories 
are generally determined on the moving average 

and first-in, first-out bases. 


FILM DISTRIBUTION AND AMORTIZATION 

Recently issued accounting guidelines required that 
certain changes be made in accounting methods 

and policies used in accounting for films released or 
completed subsequent to September 30, 1973. 
Pursuant to such policies, costs of completed theatrical 
and television film productions (negatives), together 
with applicable capitalized exploitation costs, are 
amortized by charges to income in the proportion that 
the producer's share of gross revenue received by the 
Company during the period for such production bears 
to the estimated total gross revenue to be received 
from all sources. Estimates of total gross revenue are 
reviewed periodically and amortization is adjusted 
accordingly. As a result of adopting such guidelines, 
net income for the year ended September 30, 1974 
increased by approximately four cents per share. 

The Company does not believe that these guidelines 
are necessarily an improvement over the Company’s 
previous reporting practices. 

In prior years, costs of completed theatrical and 
television film productions were amortized by charges 
to income in the proportion that the producer's share 
of income (film rentals less distribution, print, co- 


30 





producer participation and advertising costs) received 
by the Company for each production related to the 
estimated total of such income to be received. 


ENTERTAINMENT ATTRACTIONS, FACILITIES 

AND OTHER DEPRECIABLE ASSETS 

The Company classifies the costs of its two amusement 
theme parks (rides, attractions, exhibits, shops), 
recreational facilities (lake, lagoon, golf courses), 
theme resort hotels and direct support properties 
including buildings (warehouses, maintenance shops, 
administration), transportation systems and roads as 
entertainment attractions and facilities. Other buildings 
and equipment consist of properties at the Burbank 
studio and other properties not directly related to 
entertainment and recreational activities. 

Depreciation is provided principally on the straight 
line method using estimated service lives ranging from 
4 to 50 years. Depreciation and maintenance and 
repairs are charged either directly to costs and 
expenses as incurred or to film production costs which 
are then amortized against income; major replace- 
ments and betterments are capitalized. The cost and 
related accumulated depreciation of property sold 
or retired are removed from the accounts and any 
resulting gain or loss is recorded in income. 


PREOPENING COSTS 

Deferred preopening costs and expenses relating to 
Walt Disney World are being amortized over five years, 
commencing October 1971. 


TAXES ON INCOME 

Deferred taxes on income represent deferred invest- 
ment tax credits and taxes which will not become 
payable until future years due principally to differences 
between financial and tax reporting of depreciation 
and amortization of preopening costs. Investment tax 
credits, accounted for by the deferral method, are 
amortized as a reduction of the provision for taxes on 
income over the average service lives of the related 
assets. 

STOCK OPTIONS 

Proceeds from the sale of common stock issued under 
stock option plans are accounted for as capital 
transactions and no charges or credits are made to 
income in connection with the plans. 


EARNINGS PER SHARE 

Earnings per share are computed on the basis of the 
average number of shares outstanding during each 
year, retroactively adjusted to give effect to all stock 
splits and stock dividends. It is assumed that all 
dilutive stock options are exercised at the beginning 
of each year and that the proceeds are used to 
purchase shares of the Company’s common stock 

at the average market price during the year. 


| 
q 
| 
1 











-2 eared < > et! vs 








REVENUES 
Entertainment and recreational activities . 
Film rentals sae eae 
Music and records, character merchandising, 
educational media, publications and other 
Total revenues 
COSTS AND EXPENSES 
Entertainment and recreational activities . 
Film rentals Sea ae ee 
Music and records, character merchandising, 
educational media, publications and other 
General and administrative 
Interest (note 4) 
Total costs and expenses. 
INCOME BEFORE TAXES ON INCOME . 
Taxes on income (note 3) . 
NET INCOME 


EARNINGS PER SHARE . 


*Reclassitied for comparative purposes. 
See notes to consolidated financial statements and summary of significant accounting policies. 


To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Walt Disney Productions. 


We have examined the consolidated balance sheet of Walt Disney 
Productions and its subsidiaries as of September 30, 1974 and 1973 
and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders equity 
and changes in financial position for the years then ended. Our 
examinations were made in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards and accordingly included such tests of the account- 
ing records and such other auditing procedures as we considered 
necessary in the circumstances. 

As explained in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, the 
Company changed its method of accounting for films released or 
completed subsequent to September 30, 1973 as required by recently 
issued accounting guidelines for motion picture films. 

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements 
examined by us present fairly the financial position of Walt Disney 
Productions and its subsidiaries at September 30, 1974 and 1973 and 
the results of their operations and the changes in financial position 
for the years then ended, in conformity with generally accepted account- 
ing principles consistently applied during the period except for the 
change, with which we concur, referred to in the preceding parag raph. 


£ Fr t 


Los Angeles, California 
November 18, 1974 


31 








Year Ended September 30 


1974 


$282,425,000 
90,390,000 


__ 57,074,000 
_ 429,889,000 


237,663,000 
44,579,000 


35,331,000 
16,079,000 
__7,709,000 
341,361,000 
88,528,000 
40,200,000 
$ 48,328,000 
$1.66 


1973" 


$261,514,000 


76,159,000 


47,392,000 
385,065,000 


211,883,000 
40,163,000 


27,789,000 
15,224,000 


4,838,000 
299,897,000 


85,168,000 


37,400,000 
$ 47,768,000 


$1.64 











September 30 


1974 


1973 





ASSETS 
CURRENT ASSETS 
Cash and short term investments (note 4) $ 16,244,000 $ 9,564,000 
Accounts receivable, less allowances . 20,805,000 15,920,000 
Inventories 
Film production costs (note 1) . 23,445,000 20,367,000 
Merchandise, materials and supplies 23,392,000 17,957,000 
Prepaid expenses 7,397,000 5,286,000 
Total current assets 91,283,000 69,094,000 
FILM PRODUCTION COSTS—NON-CURRENT (note 1) 27,559,000 22,403,000 
ENTERTAINMENT ATTRACTIONS AND FACILITIES, at cost 604,800,000 552,447,000 
Less accumulated depreciation . (124,170,000) (98,700,000) 
480,630,000 453,747,000 
OTHER BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT, at cost . 63,024,000 52,847,000 
Less accumulated depreciation . (16,826,000) (14,325,000) 
46,198,000 38,522,000 
CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS, at cost . 68,292,000 65,220,000 
LAND, at cost 16,507,000 16,498,000 
OTHER ASSETS (note 2) . 12,147,000 13,323,000 
$742,616,000 $678,807 ,000 


See notes to consolidated financial statements and summary of significant accounting policies. 


32 





LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY 


CURRENT LIABILITIES 
Notes payable to banks (note 4) . 
Accounts payable 
Payroll and employee benefits 
Property, payroll and other taxes 
Taxes on income (note 3) . 
Total current liabilities . 


LONG TERM LIABILITIES 
Notes payable to banks (note 4) . 
Other 


UNEARNED DEPOSITS AND RENTALS . 


DEFERRED TAXES ON INCOME AND INVESTMENT CREDITS (note 3) 


COMMITMENTS (note 7) 


STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY (notes 4 and 6) 
Preferred shares, $20 par value 
Authorized—5,000,000 shares; none issued 
Common shares, $1.25 par value 
Authorized—75,000,000 shares 
Issued and outstanding—29,171,924 and 28,583,779 shares . 
Capital in excess of par value 
Accumulated earnings . 


33 





September 30 


1974 





24,671,000 
10,835,000 
3,616,000 


18,491,000 


57,613,000 


55,000,000 


5,801,000 


60,801,000 
8,580,000 


63,144,000 


36,465,000 
373,312,000 
142,701,000 
552,478,000 
$742,616,000 


1973 


$ 12,000,000 
21,094,000 
8,565,000 
4,343,000 


21,462,000 


67,464,000 


39,000,000 


5,407,000 


44,407,000 
9,319,000 


51,171,000 


35,730,000 
337,408,000 
133,308,000 

_506,446,000 
$678,807,000 





Balance at September 30, 1972 as restated 
for stock split (note 6) 
Exercise of stock options (note 6) 
Income tax benefit from sale of 
option shares by employees . 
Dividends 
Cash (12¢ per share) 
Net income for the year . 


Balance at September 30, 1973 . 
Exercise of stock options (note 6) 
Income tax benefit from sale of 

option shares by employees . 
Dividends 

Cash (12¢ per share) 

Stock (2%) 
Net income for the year . 


Balance at September 30, 1974 . 


Common Shares 
Number 


28,547,610 
36,169 


28,583,779 
16,432 


571,713 


29,171,924 


See notes to consolidated financial statements and summary of significant accounting policies. 


34 





Common Shares 
Par Value 








$35,685,000 
45,000 


35,730,000 
20,000 


715,000 


$36,465,000 





Capital In 
Excess of 
Par Value 


$335,965,000 
743,000 


700,000 


337,408,000 
308,000 
859,000 


34,737,000 


$373,312,000 








Accumulated 
Earnings 


$ 88,969,000 


(3,429,000) 


47,768,000 


133,308,000 


(3,483,000) 
(35,452,000) 


48,328,000 


$142,701 ,000 








FINANCIAL RESOURCES WERE PROVIDED BY: 





Year Ended September 30 


1974 


1973° 





Operations 
Netincome . Ge! ean eee $ 48,328,000 $ 47,768,000 
Expenses not affecting working capital 
ED col eS wine 29,601,000 26,553,000 
Amortization of preopening costs . £ 2,429,000 2,429,000 
Amortization of film production costs, non-current 2,761,000 3,932,000 
Deferred taxes on income and investment credits 11,973,000 16,453,000 
Working capital provided from operations 95,092,000 97,135,000 
Increase in long term liabilities 
Bank borrowing 36,000,000 
Other . E CUT AAF es ee La woa A 970,000 3,425,000 
Proceeds from exercise of stock options and tax benefits . 1,187,000 1,488,000 
Increase in unearned deposits and rentals . 929,000 
133,249,000 102,977,000 
FINANCIAL RESOURCES WERE USED FOR: 
Additions to entertainment attractions, facilities, 
and other depreciable assets and construction in 
progress, principally Walt Disney World 67,241,000 85,752,000 
Additions to non-current film production costs . 22,220,000 19,949,000 
Less transfer to current film production costs . (14,303,000) (16,038,000) 
Reduction of long term liabilities 
Bank borrowing 20,000,000 12,000,000 
Other . 576,000 576,000 
Cash dividends RETR ie! eg 3,483,000 3,429,000 
Decrease in unearned deposits and rentals . 739,000 
Other 1,253,000 2,116,000 
_ 101,209,000 _ 107,784,000 
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN WORKING CAPITAL . . . . . ss es o « = $ 32,040,000 $ (4,807,000) 
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN COMPONENTS OF WORKING CAPITAL: 
O A areal Grit carey Sien my UU U g ee L S3SISSSN $ 6,680,000 $ (2,744,000) 
ES E E e oe cede IPS TUN: Tena: w. a a wU SSS 4,885,000 1,100,000 
OE ES OT TE ciel aR O ely RE ate cae 8,513,000 10,834,000 
POS A CN rag i a a We RSS a EO I T u ee S as 2,111,000 1,417,000 
OI A DA DI I a eae a eae Dm Dea os ae ae wa eu Ia U eee ae fete 5 12,000,000 (3,000,000) 
EM a EAE u os Gp anes te ahi eo) w pie s: PER Sse (3,577,000) (4,607,000) 
Payroll and employee benefits . . . . . 2. + + «© «© © © © © © 2 8 (2,270,000) (1,491,000) 
PrORGtty; DAYTON ANG Othor takot U US. aie ee ee 727,000 (85,000) 
A U WGN sien es Si ee ok aS ep a SNS SSS SE ~ 2,971,000 (6,231,000) 


$ 32,040,000 $ (4,807,000) 


*Reclassitied for comparative purposes. 
See notes to consolidated financial statements and summary of significant accounting policies. 


35 





NOTE 1 

INVENTORIES—FILM PRODUCTION COSTS: 
Inventories of theatrical and television film productions 
consist of the following components: 








1974 1973 
Released, less amortization $20,678,000 $14,362,000 
Completed, not yet released 6,377,000 10,561,000 
In process . 23,949,000 17,847,000 
51,004,000 42,770,000 
Less: Non-current 
film production costs . 27,559,000 22,403,000 
Current film production costs . $23,445,000 $20,367,000 
NOTE 2 
OTHER ASSETS: 


At September 30, 1974 other assets include un- 
amortized deferred preopening costs of $5,426,000 
($7,855,000—1973) and the Company's majority 
interest in a joint venture with a subsidiary of United 
Telecommunications, Inc. of $4,758,000 ($3,241 ,000— 
1973) which approximates its underlying equity. 


NOTE 3 
TAXES ON INCOME: 


The provision for taxes is composed of the following: 


1974 1973 
Current—Federal . $23,333,000 $16,265,000 
—State . 2,445,000 2,144,000 
—Foreign . 2,449,000 2,538,000 
Deferred—Federal 13,454,000 17,929,000 
we es C 820,000 1,040,000 
—Investment credits 
amortized . (2,301,000) (2,516,000) 
$40,200,000 $37,400,000 


The significant components of deferred taxes on 
income included in the provision for taxes on income 
were as follows: 
1974 

Excess of tax over book depreciation 

and amortization . ka eRe ge = 
Investment credit claimed for tax purposes 

in excess of amortization under deferral 

method for financial reporting purposes . . 946,000 
Excess of book over tax amortization of 

preopening costs deferred for financial 

reporting purposes . Oe ee (1,209,000) 
SANA. s es A ee ee Pee 12,000 

Total provision for deferred taxes on income . $11,973,000 


$12,224,000 


The difference between the U.S. federal income tax 
rate of 48% and the Company's effective income 


tax rate is explained below: 
1974 





Pacer noone MAN SO = | ei one eee ee a š 48.0% 
State income taxes, net of federal 

NCH SAC DONO sok se a ee ees 3 1.9 
Reduction in taxes resulting from: 

lnvesiment Tax ONM = S a ow eee < (2.6) 

Tax benefit from domestic international 

Sees pO pOnN SS a 4 se es ee s (1.5) 

CNR Se gn ean te ee ries ae lee ees ( .4) 

Effective income tax rate ot Se i aa oe ae 45.4% 





Investment tax credits under the Revenue Act of 1971 
amounting to $13,447,000 at September 30, 1974 
($12,501 ,000—1973) related to qualifying asset 
additions (including theatrical and television film 
productions) are deferred. 

The Company also has substantial claims on file for 
investment tax credits on theatrical and television 
film productions under the Revenue Act of 1962, which 
are currently the subject of litigation. The United States 
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit on May 29, 1973 
upheld a judgment in favor of the Company rendered 
by the United States District Court. On February 19, 
1974 the United States Supreme Court denied the gov- 
ernment'’s petition for review and the judgment is now 
final. The judgment involves the Company's claim for a 
refund with respect to its income tax return for fiscal 
year 1962 amounting to approximately $100,000 
plus interest. In addition, the Company received a 
favorable decision by the United States District Court 
on July 11, 1974 in a suit claiming tax refunds 
aggregating approximately $6,600,000, exclusive of 
interest, with respect to films placed in service during 
fiscal years 1963 through 1969. On September 6, 1974 
the government filed a notice of appeal with respect 
to this decision. In December 1973, the Company 
filed a claim for a tax refund for fiscal year 1970 of 
approximately $970,000, exclusive of interest and 
subsequently filed a suit in the United States District 
Court in support of that claim. These claims will not be 
reflected in the Company’s accounts until collection 
is assured. 


NOTE 4 
NOTES PAYABLE TO BANKS: 
September 30, 1974 
eres Dutständing 
Revolving loan . $25,000,000 
Term loan $65,000,000 $55,000,000 





: 
| 
| 
i 
2 
9 
i 
i 





In March 1974 the Company modified its banking 
arrangements to provide for an unsecured revolving 
term loan of $75,000,000 and a revolving unsecured 
short term loan of $25,000,000. The term loan is 
repayable in annual installments of $10,000,000 in 
fiscal years 1975 to 1980 and $15,000,000 in 1981. 
The fiscal year 1975 payment was prepaid. Interest is 
payable quarterly ranging from prime to 1⁄2 % above 
prime. The term loan agreement contains certain 
provisions with respect to cash dividends, maintenance 
of net worth and future indebtedness. At September 
30, 1974 approximately $103,000,000 of accumulated 
earnings is free of restrictions. Pursuant to a supple- 
mentary letter agreement with the lending bank, 
the Company maintains on deposit with the bank 
compensating balances equal to 15% of the average 
outstanding borrowings and 10% of the average 
unused portion of the revolving line. 

At September 30, 1974 approximately $11,350,000 
of the cash balance shown in the balance sheet 
represented a compensating balance after adjusting 
for differences of “float” between the balance shown 
by the books of the Company and records of the bank. 
The float (unpresented checks less deposits in transit) 
amounted to approximately $4,000,000. 


NOTE 5 
PENSION PLANS: 


The Company contributes to various domestic trusteed 
pension plans under union and industry-wide agree- 
ments. Contributions are based on the hours worked 
by or gross wages paid to covered employees. 

The Company has no past service liability under 
these plans. 

The Company has a pension plan covering sub- 
stantially all of its domestic employees not covered by 
union or industry pension plans. The plan is funded 
by Company and employee payments to a trust 
administered by a bank. During 1972 the Company 
established a non-qualified and unfunded key 
employee retirement plan providing for Company and 
domestic employee contributions. 

The aggregate cost of all these plans was $2,613,000 
and $2,563,000 for fiscal years 1974 and 1973, 
respectively, including amortization of actuarially 
computed prior service costs, where applicable, over 
periods ranging to thirty-eight years. 








NOTE 6 
STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY: 


In January 1973 a two-for-one stock split effected by 
a 100% stock dividend resulted in the issuance of 
14,276,173 common shares and a transfer of 
$17,845,000 from capital in excess of par value to 
capital stock. 

A 2% stock dividend was issued to stockholders of 
record on December 3, 1973, resulting in a $35,452,000 
transfer from accumulated earnings to invested capital. 

Under the Company’s 1967 and 1973 stock option 
plans, options are granted to key executive, manage- 
ment and creative personnel at prices equal to market 
value at date of grant. Transactions under the plans 
during fiscal year 1974 were as follows: 


Number of Shares 





Options Available 


Granted for Grant 

Outstanding September 30, 1973 

($16.72 to $95.10 per share) . 240,310 600,615 
Added for 2% stock dividend 

DOGO So Tate 1. s)he es 4,752 12,030 
a re 1a SW W. ie | (3 (23,629) 23,629 
Granted ($41.56 and $45.69 per share) 382,350 (382,350) 
Exercised ($16.72 to $49.98 per share) (16,432) y; 
Outstanding September 30, 1974 

($21.62 to $95.10 per share) . 587,351 253,924 


Options are exercisable beginning not less than 
one year after date of grant. Qualified options expire 
five years after date of grant and non-qualified options 
expire ten years after date of grant. At September 30, 
1974, 13,860 shares granted under the 1967 plan 
were exercisable at $21.62 to $95.10 per share and 
48,387 shares granted under the 1973 plan were 
exercisable at $82.60 to $88.78 per share. 


NOTE 7 
COMMITMENTS: 


Pursuant to an agreement for the use of the name of 
Walt Disney, Retlaw Enterprises, Inc. (a company 
owned by the family of the late Walter E. Disney) 
received royalty payments of approximately $1,734,000 
and $1,175,000 from the Company for fiscal years 

1974 and 1973, respectively; in accordance with such 
name agreement, the payments in fiscal year 1974 
included $415,000 ($11,000 in 1973) as a participation 
by Retlaw of 5% in the profits, as defined in that 
agreement, of Walt Disney World Phase 1 operations. 








TEN YEAR REVIEW 


RETURN ON STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY—MILLIONS $506 ù TOTAL ka STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY AND 
| LONG TERM DEBT—MILLIONS 


1 
= Ill TOTAL ASSETS 


STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY N h, STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY (END OF YEAR) 
(BEGINNING OF YEAR) ‘ 


MM LONG TERM DEBT 


I) NET INCOME 











WORKING CAPITAL AS PROVIDED BY OPERATIONS AND REVENUES—MILLIONS 
CAPITAL ADDITIONS—MILLIONS 


Ue 


EXPENSES NOT $300 
AFFECTING 
WORKING CAPITAL = ENTERTAINMENT AND 
Í RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES 
NET INCOME 


Ill FiLM RENTALS 
E CAPITAL ADDITIONS 


OTHER 


RS takes | | 
¥ L Bz L FAE 
1970 


1971 





WALT DISNEY PRODUCTIONS 

500 So. Buena Vista Street, Burbank, California 

Produces motion pictures for theatrical and television distribution 
— operates Disneyland Park—operates Celebrity Sports Center — 
conducts ancillary activities. 


BUENA VISTA DISTRIBUTION CO., INC. 

Irving H. Ludwig—President 

Distributes, syndicates and sells domestically the product of Walt 
Disney Productions, including 35mm theatrical film, television 
shows and records and albums. 


BUENA VISTA INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

Harold P. Archinal—President 

Supervises the distribution of Walt Disney Productions 35mm 
theatrical film, 16mm film and television shows in foreign 
countries except the Western Hemisphere. 


CANASA TRADING CORPORATION 
Harold P. Archinal—President 
Western Hemisphere trading corporation. 


WALT DISNEY MUSIC COMPANY 
James A. Johnson—President 
Music publishing — ASCAP affiliate. 


WONDERLAND MUSIC COMPANY, INC. 
James A. Johnson—President 
Music publishing — BMI affiliate. 


WALT DISNEY EDUCATIONAL MEDIA COMPANY 

James P. Jimirro — Executive Vice President 

Distributor—16mm film, audio-visual educational materials and 
8mm home movies. 


WALT DISNEY WORLD CO. 

Donn B. Tatum— Chairman, Board of Directors 

E. Cardon Walker—President 

Richard A. Nunis—Executive Vice President 

Robert C. Allen — Vice President — Resorts 

James P. Armstrong—Vice President—Food Division 
Carl G. Bongirno— Vice President and Treasurer 
Edward B. Crowell — Vice President — Facilities Division 
Robert F. Jani—Vice President— Entertainment 

Jack B. Lindquist—Vice President — Marketing 

Robert K. Matheison— Vice President— Operations Division 
Jack W. Olsen—Vice President — Merchandising 

James P. Passilla—Vice President— Employee Relations 
Philip N. Smith—Vice President—Legal and Secretary 
Luther R. Marr—Assistant Secretary 

Donald A. Escen— Assistant Treasurer 

James A. McManus — Assistant Treasurer 

Operates Walt Disney World. 


WALT DISNEY TRAVEL CO., INC. 
Jack B. Lindquist—President 
Markets wholesale and retail tour packages. 


LAKE BUENA VISTA COMMUNITIES, INC. 
E. Cardon Walker— President 
Real estate development. 


VISTA COMMUNICATIONS, INC. 
(a partner in Vista-Florida Telephone System) 
Telephone and related communications services. 


This report is distributed for the intormation of stockholders and 
employees of the Company. It is not to be considered either as a 
prospectus or circular in connection with the purchase and/or 
sale of securities nor is it to be considered a part of the proxy 
soliciting material of the Company for the annual meeting of its 
stockholders. 


40 





Donn B. Tatum 

Chairman of the Board 

E. Cardon Walker 

President 

William H. Anderson 

Vice President— Production and Studio Operations 
Michael L. Bagnall 

Vice President — Finance 

Ronald J. Cayo 

Vice President — Business Affairs 


Roy E. Disney 
Vice President —16mm Production 


Vincent H. Jefferds 

Vice President — Marketing — Consumer Products Division 

Orbin V. Melton 

Vice President and Treasurer 

Ronald W. Miller 

Vice President — Executive Producer 

Richard T. Morrow 

Vice President — General Counsel 

Richard A. Nunis 

Vice President — Operations — Disneyland and Walt Disney World 


James L. Stewart 
Vice President — Corporate Relations and Assistant to the President 


George A. Sullivan 

Vice President— Tax Administration 
Alberto F. Trevino, Jr. 

Vice President— Real Estate 
Lawrence E. Tryon 

Vice President and Controller 
Franklin Waldheim 

Vice President and Eastern Counsel 
Luther R. Marr 

Secretary — Legal 

Leland L. Kirk 

Assistant Secretary-Treasurer 
Donald A. Escen 

Assistant Treasurer and Assistant Controller 
Douglas E. Houck 

Assistant Controller 

Bruce F. Johnson 

Assistant Controller 


Donald E. Tucker 
Assistant Controller 


Bank of America, N.T. & S.A., San Francisco; 
Bankers Trust Company, New York. 


Bank of America, N.T. & S.A., San Francisco; 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, New York. 


The common stock of the Company is listed for trading on the 
New York and Pacific Coast Stock Exchanges. 


Price Waterhouse & Co., Los Angeles. 


Second Wednesday in February. 


A copy of the Corporation's annual report to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission (Form 10-K) may be obtained by writing 
the Secretary's office. 























Look to the name Walt Disney for the finest in family entertainment 





x 


