AN 

5 

4 
5, 

ҰС o 
© 
/ ж 








Go ANNUAL REPORT 


Ud TO SHAREHOLDERS AND EMPLOYEES | FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1967 





s 
8 


2. тү; е: 











TOMORROW BEGINS 


Building on the 


Living Legacy of 


Walt Disney 





E. CARDON WALKER* 
Executive Vice President- 
Operations 





DONN B. TATUM* 
Executive Vice President- 
Administration and Vice 
Chairman of the Board 





B OA RD OF WILLIAM " ANDERSON 


S. CLARK BEISE GEORGE L. BAGNALL Vice President- 


^ وحم‎ ti "nidi 
Chairman Executive President — George |) | R Р DT () RS Production and Studio 


iiie 
Committee, Bagnall and Associates Operations 
Bank of America 





GORDON E. YOUNGMAN ROY E. DISNEY 





Senior Partner, Producer 
Youngman, Hungate 
and Leopold 
RONALD W. MILLER *Member Executive Committee. 


Producer 





TODAY 


ROY O. DISNEY* 
President and Chairman of the Board 


©1967 Walt Disney Productions 





This past year has been one of great transition in the his- 
tory of Walt Disney Productions. For the first time since 
its founding in 1923, our company has been without its 
chief creative force, Walt Disney. 

It was natural, of course, that the world should wonder, 
“Where does Walt Disney Productions go from here?”, 
now that Walt is no longer with us. 

Walt Disney was not only a dreamer whose visions — 
like Disneyland — came true. He was a creative planner, 
and the projects Walt planned reached five, ten, even 
twenty years ahead. Walt’s biggest dream, our enormous 
Florida project, will take many years to complete in its 
entirety. The conception envisioned by Walt is truly won- 
derful, and one that will give our company many years of 
diversified growth. 

These projects are the living legacy of Walt Disney. In 
embarking on these great projects of tomorrow, we begin 
today with the strongest foundation Walt Disney Produc- 
tions has ever had. Walt left us not only at the peak of 
our financial prosperity, but also at the peak of our cre- 
ative planning for these future projects. And he left us 
well supplied with the most important element for prog- 
ress, the creative manpower to accomplish the goals he 
had set. 

Our administrative management team is also well 
manned and competent and, in my opinion, well quali- 
fied to meet the challenge of the future. 

In this Annual Report, we have set out to introduce 
you to some key members of this Disney team. Their 
talents are legion, for few companies in the entertainment 
business have reached as far into so many areas of the 
growing leisure-time entertainment and recreation field. 

Today, while motion pictures remain the core of our 
business, we look at the marvelous performance of Dis- 


neyland as an indication of the potential in the recreation- 
vacation business. For eight consecutive weeks last sum- 
mer, Disneyland attendance exceeded the previous one- 
week attendance high established in 1966. Both July and 
August, 1967, exceeded the previous one-month attend- 
ance record, also established in 1966. And for the entire 
year ended September 30, 1967, Disneyland’s attendance 
totaled a record 7,937,743 guests, far in excess of the 
former high of 6,704,495, also set in 1966; more than 
double the attendance of the first full year of operation, 
1955-56. 

The remarkable record of 1967 at Disneyland was in 
major part due to long-range planning that began four 
years ago. Our capital investment of nearly $60,000,000 
in Disneyland from 1965 through 1967 has already be- 
gun to pay for itself, in ways that have far exceeded our 
estimates. 

Today, as we plan the vacation-recreation complex for 
Walt Disney World in Florida, and as we plan our motion 
pictures for the next few years, we are laying the founda- 
tion for the future of Walt Disney Productions. Tomorrow 
begins today, and today we are investing heavily in the 
future growth and prosperity of our company. 

I speak for the entire Disney organization when I say 
that we are approaching our work with confidence that 
we know where we are going and we are determined to go 
there. Our spirits are high and we have set ourselves to 
the great challenge — a challenge not just to preserve what 
Walt Disney built, but to continue building upon the won- 
derful, priceless living legacy of Walt Disney. 


۲۶ қы. 


President and Chairman of the Board 











































Ever since the day in 1923 when ۳ d Roy 


formed a company to produce animated ‚ Walt 
Disney Productions has been first ar ost a 
motion picture company. 
As the years have passed, of c | Dis- 
neyland growing to international | and 
Walt Disney World in Florida mo: d to- 
ward reality — more and more pub т has 
been focused on the products of ۱ Pre 
ductions outside the motion pictu! 
But the Studio remains the Hub апу 
...the creative core around whi 11 th 
major satellites: merchandising a e rec- 
| TEE 7 ۱ ord company, 16mm films for sc! ustry, 
y 5 я um Hub of publications, comic strips and the | al dis- 
| | tribution network, Buena Vista. | neyland 


the Company today, and Walt Disney World ! y Ol 


the versatility and talents of the 5 ; the 


4666 


CLOSED à 
KEEP OUT 


% source for many story properti | to 

as T | 3 market the non-film attraction igh 
| А h special films for theatres and tel 

look Ұй | Disneyland's 7.9 million “in | nce 

7j ^ for the year is amazing; but it 1S $ сай 

inside 28 p 4 + that based on conservative audien eacn 

Шақ е M Ж. » er year more than 200 million peo] 40 

bo 0 22 AA. = -— , E 7 nations view a Disney motion pic very 

the UA MA = P Load ^ week more than 100 million people ' isney 


hd television show somewhere in the wor! 
ester- 


7 ry 5 y ۰ ۰ ۰ ٠ 
Disney call 242 l'oday's Walt Disney Studio is à ! 

1 | day and tomorrow. From yesterday, t lio 1n- 
e 7 herits a continuity of key personnel v equal 


world ммм іп the entertainment industry. For ton ow, the 
api ۳ taies i» a 9 5 а 5 
و انام‎ vt Studio's key producers, directors, write! 4 other 
اس‎ лт GATE film craftsmen are now embarked on t! otion 
РЕ - . ۰ 
picture and television products that wi r the 





(ILY BAND: 
ducer Bill Anderson with matte artist Alan Maley. 


ompany’s name, for the first time, without Walt 
Disney at the helm. 
e continuity of yesterday and tomorrow is 
' important: Walt Disney Productions will con- 
ше in the same general pattern of production — 
nily motion pictures — that Walt followed so suc- 
ly in the past. 
[o accomplish this goal requires both the story 
oerties and the seasoned personnel to turn basic 


Hui ГР 


.-.:..1.. 


¢ into film entertainment. Both are present in 
ndance at the Studio today. These pages will 
troduce some of these people, and some of the 
ry properties they are now developing for release 
1968 and 1969. 





YEAR OF THE HORSE: 
Star Dean Jones 
and producer 
Winston Hibler. 


THE PRODUCTION TEAM. Supervising the overall 
activities of the Studio in motion pictures and 
television is Card Walker, Executive Vice-Presi- 
dent, Operations. Seven key producers, each picked 
by Walt years ago for the assignments they now con- 
tinue, are responsible for major film production. 

In addition to Card, who has spent 25 years with 
the company, the seven producers and their tenure 
with Walt Disney Productions include Bill Ander- 
son, 25 years; Bill Walsh, 24; Winston Hibler, 25; 
James Algar, 33; Ron Miller, 11; Harry Tytle, 31: 
and Roy E. Disney, 14. With all their years of ex- 
perience in the Studio, these seven key producers 
are still in the prime of their creative years; their 
average age is 49. 

Anderson, also a member of the Board of Direc- 
tors as Vice-President—Production and Studio Oper- 
ations. is now in the midst of post-production work 
on one of the Studio's most ambitious musical com- 
edies. The One and Only, Genuine, Original Family 
Band. With a dozen new tunes by Dick and Bob 
Sherman and a cast that includes Walter Brennan, 
Buddy Ebsen, John Davidson, Lesley Ann Warren, 
Janet Blair and Kurt Russell, it will be one of the 
company's summer, 1968 releases. 





Elected to the Board of Directors in 1960, Ander- 
son has many successful pictures to his credit as 
co-producer with Walt, including Swiss Family 
Robinson, Old Yeller, The Moon-Spinners and The 
Happiest Millionaire. 

In Bill Walsh, a top writer as well as producer, 
the Studio has one of the motion picture industry's 
finest and most productive talents. 

Along with co-writer Don Da Gradi and direc- 
tor Robert Stevenson — the Mary Poppins team — 
Walsh has recently completed the wildly funny 
Blackbeard's Ghost, and is about to begin produc- 
tion on Boy-Car-Girl, the wacky story of a has-been 
race car driver “adopted” by a Volkswagen that 
happens to be equipped with human intelligence 
and emotions. It's the kind of successful box-office 
story Walsh has been helping build for years in such 
films as The Shaggv Dog, The Absent-M inded Pro- 
fessor, Son of Flubber and That Darn Cat. 

Next for the Walsh-Da Gradi scripting team will 
be Bednobs and Broomsticks, a musical comedy 
about a benevolent British witch. With original 
songs by the Sherman brothers, it promises to have 
that Mary Poppins look about it. 

As the year drew to a close, shooting was nearing 


CASTING FOR 

TV SHOW: 

Writer Joe McEveety 
and producer Ron 
Miller preparing 
Michael O'Hara IV. 


BOY-CAR-GIRI : ! z e»t 


Director Robert 
Stevenson, producer 
Bill Walsh, writer 
Don Da Gradi... 
and "Herbie," 

the car. 






















completion on Year of the Horse, Winston Hibler's 
production about a harried advertising executive 
(Dean Jones) who launches a zany ad campaign to 
pay for his teen-age daughter's lovable, tempera- 
mental jumping horse. For release in 1968, it is 
"Hib's" 43rd theatrical credit since he joined Dis- 
ney in 1942 as a story man on cartoon features. 

Hibler's distinctive style as narrator for the True- 
Life Adventures is familiar to audiences around the 
world. Several of his projects have won awards, in- 
cluding the television show Operation Undersea, 
which won an Emmy, and the theatrical documen- 
tary, Men Against the Arctic, which won an Oscar. 

Year of the Horse follows Hibler's co-producer 
work on Follow-Me, Boys!, The Ugly Dachshund, 
Those Calloways, Big Red, Nikki, Wild Dog of the 
North and Perri. 

When it comes to nature stories — a Disney staple 
for many years — Jim Algar has perhaps the most 
impressive credentials in the industry. Most re- 
cently co-producer of The Gnome-Mobile and The 
Incredible Journey, Algar is now preparing Sterling 
North's timeless novel, Rascal, for production next 
summer in the green lake country of Wisconsin. It's 
the poignant and humorous story of a country boy 
who adopts and grows up with a baby raccoon in 
small town America. 

Algar has been writer, narrator, director and 
co-producer on 45 motion pictures and TV shows, 
winning, or sharing in the winning, of 22 awards, 
including a number of Oscars for such films as The 
Living Desert, The Vanishing Prairie, The African 
Lion, Secrets of Life and The Legend of Lobo. 

About the time Never A Dull Moment, which he 
co-produced, reaches the nation's theatres, Ron Mil- 
ler will be well into production of A Son-In-Law for 


Charlie McReady. Another in a series of comedies 
for Miller, this one is the tale of a Hollywood com- 
poser who worries about the oddball men his pretty 
daughter dates — especially when her final choice is 
a red-bearded “beatnik” type. 

A member of the Board of Directors, Miller has 
co-producer credits on The Monkey's Uncle, That 
Darn Cat, Lt. Robin Crusoe, U.S.N. and Monkey's 
Go Home! Ron's penchant for comedy is also seen 
in his earlier films, as associate producer for Bon 
Voyage, Summer Magic, Son of Flubber, Moon 
Pilot and The Misadventures of Merlin Jones. 

Few people know the Studio more thoroughly 
than Harry Tytle, who since 1936 has worked in 
almost every area of production. For the past 10 
years, television has been his major assignment. As 
Walt's personal representative in Europe, he worked 
on Miracle of the White Stallions, Hans Brinker and 
The Silver Skates, The Magnificent Rebel, Almost 
Angels and The Waltz King. 

Since 1963, Tytle has been back at the Studio, 
co-producing such shows as the popular Disneyland 
programs, last spring's A Salute to Alaska, and sev- 
eral of this and next season's shows, including the 
two-part comedy-drama, Boomerang, Dog of Many 
Talents for the Wonderful World of Color. 

Television shows have also been the major works 
of Roy E. Disney. His forthcoming Pancho — the 
story of a man and his son and their dog, Pancho, 
set in the 1880 Texas-New Mexico territory — will 
be a major feature of the 1968-69 season on the 
World of Color. He has also begun work on The 
Graysons, a story about Abraham Lincoln as a 
young lawyer. 

Roy, who was recently elected a member of the 
Board of Directors, has also co-produced such 










RECORDING SESSION: 
Composer Buddy 
Baker with song- 
writers Robert B. 

and Richard M. 


Sherman. 


RASCAL: Producer James Algar with "Rascal" and trainer. 


Ss" 








IM 

WM 7. I^ SET 

E PROP eee ees 

Ж Чї: ۱ در‎ 
t 


rnain 
OU зв: 
۲۲۲۲۲ ГҮ г“ ущ. 


£13 


PANCHO: Composer George Bruns and 
producer Roy E. Disney. 


A» 





к 
"ttj 


FAMILY BAND: Director Michael O'Herlihy and 
Lesley Ann Warren. 





“ж. 
“ 


ғ 


YEAR ОҒ THE HORSE: 
Director Norman Tokar. 


STORY CONFERENCE: 

Story editor Bill Dover with 
writers Lowell Hawley, Louis 
Pelletier, A J Carothers, Marty 
Roth and Larry Clemmons (1. 10 Р.) 


WES. КЕ Ж Ə 














BOOMERANG: Producer Harry Tytle and 
film editor Norman Palmer. 






“4, 
— ae 
ыж 













ARISTOCATS: Co-producer 
Woolie Reitherman, production 
stylist Ken Anderson and layout 
artist Don Griffith. 


UPJOHN HEALTH SERIES: 
Director Les Clark, 
producer Ken Peterson 
and writer Bill Bosche. 





shows as Mysteries of the Deep, an Academy Award 
nominee, and for TV, An Otter in the Family, The 
Legend of El Blanco, and My Family is a Menag- 
erie. He has also shared writing credits in the past 
for such featurettes as the remarkable Wonders of 
the Water World. 

Two other areas of film production are also mov- 
ing ahead in the Disney tradition. 

With Jungle Book completed and in release, the 
motion picture industry's finest animation team is 
now at work on still another full-length cartoon 
feature, The Aristocats. To be co-produced by Win- 
ston Hibler and Woolie Reitherman — a 35 year 
Disney animation specialist who directed Jungle 
Book — Aristocats is the hilarious tale of three fe- 
lines and their misadventures in the Paris of half a 
century ago. 

Over the years, the Studio has produced many 
features combining entertainment and education, 
for use by industry and governmental agencies. A 
number of these 10 to 15 minute stories are now 
being produced by Ken Peterson for the Upjohn 
Company, dealing with various health subjects. 

Peterson's unit, which has created widely used 
films for industry in the past (The Restless Sea for 
the Bell System and Steel and America for the 
American Iron and Steel Institute), is also com- 
pleting a short entitled Man and His Family for The 
Population Council of New York. 

Backed up by many writers, directors, artists, 
technicians and craftsmen, these key producers are 
continuing to develop stories and produce motion 
pictures in the time-honored Disney tradition. We 
believe that time — and the industry and public — 
will also honor the work they do, under the banner 
of the Walt Disney Studio. 


"Governor Kirk, members of the Legislature, and 
fellow citizens of the state of Florida. The ceremony 
taking place this morning, here in the gardens of 
your Governor's mansion, will, I hope, serve to call 
attention to an important new partnership between 
the people of Florida and all of us at Walt Disney 
Productions." 

The date was May 12, 1967, the speaker Roy O. 
Disney, and the occasion the signing into law of 
legislation requested by Walt Disney Productions 
in connection with the company's vast Florida proj- 
ect, Walt Disney World. 

In the long view, the date will surely become one 
of the most significant in the history of Walt Disney 


те 
{ 


+ 
4 





mn 
p Productions. Roy placed it in perspective when he 
EXT 200M n M CMS said that the legislation signed by Governor Claude 
| | R ( ) | | | ( | Kirk would enable the company and the people of 

Florida, working together, to accomplish the sig- 


m 2 nificant objectives of Walt Disnev World. Most 
FLORIDA Гг 


important, he said, “It will provide a solid legal 
foundation upon which we will be able to bring to 

WE D Mo Ves into reality the greatest dream of Walt Disi <۷ s Ше. | 
Basically, the legislation passed by the Florida 


High Gear f or Legislature provides for a multi-powered improve- 


ment district, which will implement the develop- 


Walt Disney ment of the project area — 27,400 acres of land in 
d central Florida, about 15 miles from the city of 
World Orlando — in such important matters as building 


codes and zoning regulations. The legislation also 
covers the important field of trade marks, trade 
names and the like. 

With the passage of legislation in mid-1967, the 
master planning and development of these 43 square 
miles — twice the size of Manhattan Island — has 
moved into high gear at WED Enterprises in Cali- 
fornia and on the site in Florida. In areas that range 
from design to water control, from story session to 
soil analysis, from financing to contacts with indus- 








try, and from basic research to preparation of the and development before it is undertaken as part of 
site for actual construction — Walt Disney World is the "second phase" of Walt Disney World. How- 
now coming true. ever, it has already elicited the interest and enthusi- 
asm of many of America's major corporations; a 
number have assigned “task forces" to work with 
WED Enterprises in the determination and devel- 
opment of systems and materials that can be applied 
in EPCOT. 

"Phase One" of Walt Disney World — the enter- 
tainment-vacation complex — has a target date for 
opening in 1971. It is this initial phase in the master 
planning and physical development of Walt Disney 
World that the staff of WED Enterprises, and con- 
sultant firms of international stature, have now 


THE PHASING. The project in its entirety will take 
many years to complete. At its ultimate develop- 
ment, it is planned to include a new amusement 
theme park similar to Disneyland in California; an 
entrance and reception complex to receive and wel- 
come all guests; hotel and motel accommodations in 
"theme resort" settings; facilities for all types of out- 
door recreation; a transportation system carrying 
guests from place to place within Walt Disney World; 
and the Experimental Prototype City of Tomorrow 












LEGISLATION SIGNED: Florida Governor Claude (EPCOT), where, as Walt Disney said, “People his id 
Kirk and Roy Disney at May 12 ceremony. actually live a life they can't find anywhere else in begun. In a strong sense, it is a “coast-to-coast 
the world today." development. 
وج ورد‎ The enormous complexities of building an entire IN FLORIDA. On the site itself, the work encom- 
TOT city — especially one that will always be a "blueprint passes four major phases: water control, aerial 
for the future" and a perpetual showcase for Ameri- mapping, borings and soils analysis, and prepara- 
can free enterprise — will require the cooperation of tion of the site for construction. 
major American industry and considerable research To develop a water control plan and to prepare 





cui abe 


Д 97 эб 
nelle СТУ 


E 


WATER SPORTS: Bay Lake, already extensive, 
will be enlarged into three-mile waterway. 






THEME PARK SITE: Entire theme 
park area, near Bay Lake, has 
been cleared for construction. ` 

WED PLANNING TEAM: Vice-presidents John 

Hench and Richard Irvine and designer Marvin 

Davis, stand at center of theme park. 












the entire property for development, Walt Disney 
Productions caused to be formed in 1966 the Reedy 
Creek Drainage District, now superseded by, and 
merged into, the Reedy Creek Improvement Dis- 
trict. The District has formulated a court-approved 
water control plan, now being implemented in ac- 
tual construction phased contemporaneously with 
the development of the Florida project. 

In its ultimate completion, the water control plan 
will make highly developable approximately 20,000 
acres of the company's land. The balance of the 
property contains some of the finest aboriginal wil- 
derness and wild life areas in Florida, abundant in 
exotic growth such as ancient stands of cypress, 
wild oranges, orchids and other colorful flora and 
fauna. The natural beauty of these areas, properly 
enhanced and made accessible, will one day become 
in itself an attraction. 

Two major phases in the master planning and 
development of Walt Disney World — aerial map- 
ping and soils analysis — are already in an advanced 
state. With this vital information, WED Enterprises 
has determined the specific location for the theme 
park, and for the initial and future theme resorts. 

Located in the northern portion of the property, 
close to Bay Lake, these primary building locations 
include areas of “high ground” where construction 
conditions are not unlike those at California’s Dis- 
neyland; engineers describe the conditions as “quite 
comparable.” 

The fourth major aspect of activity in Florida has 
been the physical clearing and preparation of the 
various building sites for actual construction. 
Through November, 1967, more than 200 acres — 
an area roughly the size of California’s Disneyland 
—had already been cleared; by mid-1968, about 
700 acres will have been prepared for construction. 

A primary standard that has been set in connec- 





tion with site clearance is retention of the natural 
beauty of the land. In the area now under develop- 
ment, virgin stands of pine, cypress and bay trees 
rise as tall as 60 to 80 feet; future visitors to Walt 
Disney World will see many of them in their natural, 
pristine environment. And that is where master 
planning enters the picture. 


IN CALIFORNIA. Just as they have with Disneyland 
since its inception in the early 1950's, the staff of 
architects, designers and engineers at WED Enter- 
prises is planning the proper use of land and water, 
as well as all the entertainment and recreation 
attractions, in Walt Disney World. These are the 
company’s /magineers, the professional team Walt 
formed and built over a period of 14 years. Within 
the past year, this staff has completed the $22 mil- 
lion re-development of Tomorrowland, and in a 
three year period, designed facilities and attractions 
for Disneyland representing a capital investment of 
nearly $60 million. 

WED's work on the Florida project ranges from 
research as basic as determining the total energy 
requirements for Walt Disney World, to the actual 
physical design (or approval of every design) for all 


construction. 
In the research that has gone into the master plan 


for Walt Disney World, WED has called upon the 
talents and experience of personnel at Disneyland 
and within the Disney organization; a variety of out- 
side consultants; and the engineers and scientists of 
some of America's major corporations. 

Within the company, for example, 12 years of 
practical experience at Disneyland has gone into the 
recommendations from Disneyland's operations, 
construction and maintenance staffs, and from the 
company's special Florida Research Group. These 
recommendations are used as design parameters, 
and cover a broad range of subjects — capacity 





AUDIO-ANIMATRONIC SHOW: 
Designers Marc Davis, 

Dick Irvine, Claude Coats 
and writer X. Atencio 
discuss "Bear Band" concept. 





LIBERTY STREET: Model makers 
prepare scale layout of Colonial 
America "land" planned for 
Florida theme park. It will fea- 
ture the Hall of the Presidents 
show. Photo on next page shows 
designers John Hench, 

Vic Green and Bill Martin. 











EXPERIMENTAL GROVE: Botanical 
research area is examined 

by Card Walker and Disneyland 
Vice-president Joseph Fowler. 





WATER CONTROL: WED engineers John Wise and Don 
Edgren study plans with Fred Green (left) of consultants 
Gee & Jenson. 





NEW MAPO FACILITY: R عي‎ D director 
Roger Broggie with Bob Booth. 
MAPOisWEDS's subsidiary for proto- 








type research. | 
ptm oN 

HALL OF PRESIDENTS 
SHOW: Sculptor 
Blaine Gibson 
creates likeness of 
Theodore Roosevelt 
for Liberty Street 
attraction. 


£. 1 
pn - 






AIRPLANE CONFERENCE: Architect Welton Becket (point- 
ing), planning consultant for theme resort hotels, dis- 
cusses concepts with Disney team during trip to Florida. 






SPACE MOUNTAIN: Four high-speed “rocket sled” tracks will 
wind inside this structure. Track engineering is so complex 
it was worked out by computer. 

















requirements in lodging and food, an analysis of 
the number and type of accommodations required, 
transportation needs, a total communications net- 
work, and many more. 

With these requirements in hand—based on a min- 
imum first-year attendance estimate of 6,000,000 
visitors—the WED staff has begun design of a “total 
vacationland” for the first phase development. In 
concept, it is a new kind of vacation experience, in 
which a new and different “theme park" (based 
upon Disneyland concepts but with many unique 
attractions of its own), will become just one of many 
entertainment and recreation attractions. 

A significant contrast to California’s Disneyland, 
for example, will be the inter-relationship between 
the theme park and theme resorts, so that both 
become part of the same “world.” And while the 
hotel-resorts will offer convenience of location to 
the theme park, they will also provide a contrast in 
design motif, food facilities, and even the type of 
entertainment presented. 

A key to the entire concept now under develop- 
ment at WED is the extension and enlargement of 
Bay Lake, a natural body of water, into a three-mile 
waterway dotted with natural and man-made 
islands. In its new form, it will become the focus of 
water spectacles and sports, while at the same time 
retaining its original — often spectacular — beauty. 

In essence, then, at its opening in 1971, Walt 
Disney World will present a complete "Vacation 
Kingdom”... place of entertainment, crowned by 
a new and different Disneyland . . . place of recre- 
ation, where land and water sports abound... and a 
place of relaxation, catering to the needs not only 
of the guest who comes for the day, but planned and 
oriented around activities and adventures for those 
who stay here for part or all of their family vacation. 








^ 
Ф 


“> 
e 


` 
o8 


Ыы 


55%, 
SES 


+ ГА 
е 


VON 
ж. 


% 


№ 


"t 
B 
AS 


А 
wo 


% 


42% 


M 


* 


% 


SIGN 


: - 
0 


42 


A 


—-— 


ж 











Disneyland's twelfth year, 1967, was really a 
"baker's dozen." Sparked by the greatest array of 
new attractions ever unveiled in a single season, the 
Magic Kingdom shattered all previous attendance 
marks for one day, one week, one month and one 
year periods. 

The 7,937,743 guests who participated in Dis- 
neyland's world-famed entertainment and hospital- 
ity represented an 18.4% increase over fiscal 1966 
attendance, a 56.3% increase over attendance five 
years ago, and an amazing 108.945 increase over 
the 3.8 million visitors in 1955-56, Disneyland's 
first full year of operation. 

For the record, there were seven new record days, 
including the all-time high of 67,228 on August 19; 
and eight new record weeks, topped by the 383,437 
guests for the week ended August 26. Attendance 
in July was a monthly record 1,328,685 and August 
exceeded that when 1,462,204 passed through the 
turnstiles. Of August's 31 days, four exceeded 
60,000 in attendance and 16 more surpassed 
50,000 visitors. 

Like the company's Florida project, 1967 at Dis- 
neyland was a long time in the planning and build- 
ing. But the new attractions that came out of this 
long-range planning were well worth waiting for. 


PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN. “Word of mouth" 
is still the world's foremost advertisement and no 








attraction has ever equalled Disneyland's new pirate 
adventure for plaudits from public and press alike. 
As Life Magazine so accurately praised, it is “the 
costliest and most technologically sophisticated" 
adventure ever built; yet “the prospect for profit 
exceeds anything Blackbeard ever dreamed of." 

In the six months since Pirates of the Caribbean 
opened in April, more than four million people have 
set sail with “the wildest crew that ever sacked the 
Spanish Main." A cast of 66 pirates “come to life" 
through WED's remarkable Audio-Animatronic 
system, attacking and looting and finally burning 
a Caribbean port, while seafaring guests sail safely 
through the action aboard flat-bottom boats. 

In Pirates of the Caribbean, Walt Disney and the 
WED staff accomplished the supreme example of 
his definition of WED Imagineering: “the blending 
of creative imagination with technical know-how." 


NEW TOMORROWLAND. About the time the four 
Disney shows at the New York World's Fair were 
reaching “hit” proportions in mid-summer, 1964, 
the designers, architects and engineers at WED be- 
gan preliminary sketches and scale models for an 
all-new Tomorrowland. The end product opened 
with a flourish in mid-summer, 1967, when Disney- 
land unveiled a new $22 million Tomorrowland. 
Symbolized by the first introduction of the WED- 
way PeopleMover — the WED-designed and pat- 


ented system for intermediate speed transportation 
— the new Tomorrowland is a *world on the move" 
that features new shows and services sponsored by 
six of America's major corporations. 

The Bell System welcomes visitors into a circular 
theatre to tour “America the Beautiful" on film, 
through the medium of the Studio’s “Circle-Vision 
360" process. 

Coca-Cola is the host company at Tomorrowland 
Terrace, a combination food and live entertainment 
center that has pioneered new ideas in the pre-prep- 
aration and rapid service of quality food. 

General Electric continued its association with 
the “Carousel of Progress," starring 32 Audio-Ani- 
matronic performers in a four-act play first intro- 
duced at the New York World's Fair. GE also gives 
guests a peek at the world's biggest animated model 
city; its overall concept is based on Walt Disney's 
design for EPCOT. 

Goodyear is introducing WED's PeopleMover 
concept, and all of Tomorrowland, as guests ride 
aboard the transportation system that runs continu- 
ously— even while passengers board and disembark. 

McDonnell-Douglas’ new “Flight to the Moon" 
features a close-up view of a space team exploring 
the lunar surface. On the way to the rocket ship, 
travelers visit “Mission Control” to see a unique 
combination of film and Audio-Animatronics por- 
traying pre-blast-off activity in the “spaceport.” 


Monsanto seats its guests in an *atomobile" and 
sends them through a Mighty Microscope into an 
*Adventure Thru Inner Space," a science-factual 
trip through a snowflake into the realm of molecules 
and atoms. 

From opening day in July, 1955, Disneyland's 
total attendance reached 65,969,218 through Sep- 
tember 30, 1967. 





1967 ATTENDANCE: 7,937,743 


The figure alone is staggering, yet its impact grows with com- 
parison. For example: 


3t It is more people by 2.6 million than attended all shows at 
Radio City Music Hall during all of last year. 

It is more people by 2.7 million than attended National Foot-‏ جد 
ball league games during the 1966 season.‏ 

it It is more people by nearly 4.1 million than saw “My Fair 
Lady" during its entire first run on Broadway. 

$ It is more people by 6.1 million than visited the Grand Canyon 
during 1966. 

+% And it is almost as many people as the entire 8,011,000 popu- 
lation of New York City. (Imagine all of New York City visiting 
one place in one year's time.) 


The records for 1967 were not limited to Disneyland's 230 acres. 
To see where else the tourist spent his vacation dollar in the 
Disneyland area, turn the page. 





RH ل‎ Dh تفیل‎ ЕИ 








m 








0 » / ay 
> Ж” ۱ 0 | 
= 4 яу??? R 
۰ ; Ж y^ A 
(1 7 2 7, 1 V 
5 ^ adf f 
a ~ p» 4 7 ۲ / / 


سم موه 


Е 


т 


1 „~ 7% 
/ 
d 
/ 


1 بوب‎ 
7 P 


КУ 
аме 


جد 


Е б 
— 


н ро. Дш m, 


5 
++ 


а 





ос» 
LL 





9 تمض‎ A A BORE ODEI AAA 
7 DERA 21 Poe T E abt Pho i 
MOTE ARE е, ا‎ 2s 


Poft PS! о as t сүтүн 
ғол, Жж”, t NL T Du 







i. БҚҚ 


9 574 


А 


1 


3 






“с 
[NES al 


^ "IST AT. - 





12 









BELOW: Disneyland's 230 acres and the land 
surrounding it, filled with orange groves just before 
construction began in July, 1954. 


AT THE LEFT: The same area in July, 1967. 


- жу” " / / 27 > ЖТ 
7” ЖОРУ АД , 7 / d 
7 14U11 yf. h Т " 4 
; 1/1 | |, 3 
/ тте à 
WU ШІ! Ш; po "T 
از‎ Sw 


۱۳ 
TM 
١ ١ 


/ f ۱ f 1 H 
7 “/ » 7 d ; ТАП f $ 0 1 
T іі) { 1 
22092 i т 
7 „ ? 
fryt VM MI MU ІНІ; "TT ١ 
۲ Suita ١ À 
УТ MHA Роса RES 
, T£ ? f 1 / 1 P | ) At 
tii di НЕН ١ 5 -: > 
, / 4 1 | 1 * 
, 1 


theese! | 
a 
His 


77. 4 f‘ 
١ ғы 1 . 
, 1 | 
١ ر‎ БҮРЕ ) 
1 1 4 
ж.... 4 44% 
4 282. 
ККЕ 4 4 “ “7” 
74 01 ‘TC 2 
T ۲ 2۶ 
4171 #245 
TO ў 4 0 
— - 






Disneyland's economic impact affects nearly every 
strata of commercial life in Orange County, California. 

In one day this past summer, 108,500 people at- 
tended activities within one square mile of Disneyland: 
66,000 at the Magic Kingdom, 32,000 at Anaheim Sta- 
dium (not shown here), 7,500 at the new Anaheim 
Convention Center (circled below) and 3,000 at 
Melodyland Theatre (circled at right). 

In this photograph, the rectangular outline indicates 
areas containing service facilities — hotels, motels, res- 
taurants, gasoline stations, etc. — that depend for their 
livelihood on people drawn here by Disneyland. Today, 
there are 105 hotels and motels, containing 5,000 
rooms, within a five mile radius of Disneyland; in 1954, 
the same area had four hotels and less than 100 rooms. 

During the period 1954-67, this area grew without 
benefit of a master plan linking the magnet — Disney- 
land — and the satellite service facilities. The experi- 
ences of these years, both problems and solutions, are 
now being called upon in the master planning of Walt 
Disney World. 








With all shows completed for the present, 1967-68 
season of Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Color, 
Studio production units are hard at work preparing 
material for the 1968-69 season, which will mark 
the 15th anniversary for the popular series. 

The National Broadcasting Company officially 
extended the program's contract for next season 
several months ago, and, as a result, many of the 
1968-69 shows have already been completed. 
Among the year's highlights will be Boomerang, 
Dog of Many Talents, a two-part comedy-drama 
starring Darren McGavin, Patricia Crowley and 
Darby Hinton; and Antique Treasure, an undersea, 
treasure hunting tale with noted actor James Daly 
and Roger Mobley, who gained fame as the cub 


reporter in the shows of the Gallegher series. 

Disney cameramen will cover the animal world 
in such programs as Inky the Crow, The Feather 
Farm, The Owl That Didn't Give A Hoot, Nature's 
Strangest Oddballs and Pancho, Dog of the Plains. 
From the realm of animation will come It's Tough 
to Be A Bird and Japan, a unique historical treat- 
ment about the Land of the Rising Sun. 

A number of outstanding programs fill the re- 
mainder of the current season. Pablo and the Danc- 
ing Chihauhau is a two-part adventure about a little 
Mexican boy and a Chihauhau who cross more than 
100 miles of burning desert on foot in search of the 
boy's lost uncle. Two new episodes of the popular 
Gallegher shows will star Roger Mobley again as 





the young, energetic cub reporter who manages to 
get more than he bargained for whenever he goes 
after a story. 

A humorous animation-live action combination 
is The Ranger of Brownstone, in which roly-poly 
ranger J. Audubon Woodlore is driven to distrac- 
tion by some of the zaniest bears ever to steal a pic- 
nic basket. Adventure and intrigue fills the two-part 
Way Down Cellar, the story of three boys who ac- 
cidentally discover a long-forgotten secret tunnel 
dating back to Revolutionary War days. And Wild 
Heart, filmed on location in the Pacific Northwest, 
is the tender story of a boy and his sister who find 
and heal a number of injured wild creatures, and 
then return the animals to their natural habitat. 





13 











MOIION PICIURES 


If ever there was a year that exhibited the whole range of 
Disney-style family entertainment, 1968 is that year. It has 
comedy — from the all-out-for-laughs Blackbeard's Ghost and 
Never A Dull Moment to the funniest of all animated features, 
The Jungle Book. It has one of the Studio's all-time live action 
favorites from the past, The Parent Trap. It has two of the most 
lavish Disney musical comedies ever to dance and sing across 





January After reserved seat engagements 
in 18 cities, and the Christmas-season 
spotlight at Radio City Music Hall, this big, 
Broadway-style musical goes into general release 
across the country in January. With 
Fred MacMurray in the title role, Millionaire 
also stars Tommy Steele, Greer Garson and 
Geraldine Page, and establishes Lesley Ann Warren 
and John Davidson as a popular 
new romantic team. 
NEN v а. 
دده‎ MM, د‎ 
d 


u 








March the haunting is 
hilarious as history's arch sea 
rogue reappears to steal a laugh 
a minute. In a superb performance, 
Peter Ustinov is the prankster pirate 
secure in the knowledge that only 
Dean Jones (and the audience) 
can see his devilish deeds. 


% Suzanne Pleshette 
"A ty also stars. 
X 


















Christmas '67 4 smash success in 
Los Angeles (where it opened 
in October), Jungle Book moved 
into general release at Christmas 
with its humor, songs and 
comical cartoon characters — 
a swinging safari out of 
Kipling's classic tales. 







۱ 









June Here's the perfect tie-in with a 
presidential campaign year — the story of a 
feudin,’ fussin' and fightin’ family split 
between Republican and Democrat in 
election year 1888. Politics aside, the Family Ban 
unites for a big, outdoor musical, starring 
14 Walter Brennan, Buddy Ebsen, John Davidson, 
Lesley Ann Warren, Janet Blair and Kurt Russell. 














the screen — The Happiest Millionaire and The One and Only, 
Genuine, Original Family Band. And it has holiday magic for 
everyone in Year of the Horse and the brand new Winnie the 
Pooh and the Blustery Dav. 

Top-name stars, teen-age favorites, family fare and Disney 
classics — 1968 has them all, and it promises to be a "typical" 
Disney year: a box-office hit with adults and children alike. 


July Dick Van Dyke is back, 

and the laughin' is easy. In fact, it's a 
thrill a minute as Dick hoodwinks a 
gang of hoods headed by ''Joe Smooth” 
(Edward G. Robinson). Attractive 
blondes Dorothy Provine and doanna 
Moore lend helping hands iA the humor. 











October ina dual role as wild 
tomboy Susan and always sheltered 
Sharon, Hayley Mills is double 
trouble as she springs The Parent Trap 
on Maureen O'Hara and Brian Keith, 
in the return of the Studio's 
most successful family comedy. 






ext. 





Winnie thePooh 


and the blustery day 








Эх 





Christmas Here's a holiday treat for the entire 
family. Dean Jones and Diane Baker star in a 
comedy-romance about horse shows, high society, 
and a zany advertising campaign. The Studio's 
second Winnie featurette brings back the popular 
Pooh and all his A. A. Milne pals. 


15 


۸ بر‎ 2 KK 
"isis BHH 
2 
BE Енг 


FH 





Ей 


БАБЕ 


7 
гіу Рр 
і 

/ 


و ی 





16 





































we 





ме k иіс أن‎ he en tanding cor 
the Califom™ 5 же ad ۳ uates and tO 
disti ‚мех to the p wed P am deem 
бом Wak ۰ | а the Amer toin SPECIAL REPORT 
Walt ys Ме а trated that the 
Ww могу den portunity . " 
Ма рле ead EIUS gue е Tributes to Walt Disney 
5 CANN 
أن‎ A “he mort agmen picti са 





Two significant tributes honoring Walt Disney аге now 
in various stages of preparation. 

A commemorative stamp honoring Walt will be one 
of 15 such stamps to be issued by the United States 
Post Office Department during 1968. Walt Disney Pro- 
ductions has been granted the opportunity to design the 
stamp, which will include a portrait of Walt as well as 
his name. 

All employees of the company have been invited to 
submit preliminary designs. As we go to press, a five- 
man committee from the Studio and WED is consider- 
ing these designs; one will ultimately be selected for 
submission to the Post Office Department. 

Another singular tribute to Walt is also in the pre- 
liminary stages. Senate Joint Resolution 93, introduced 
by Senator George Murphy of California, passed the 
upper chamber of Congress unanimously, and is now 
awaiting action in the House of Representatives. 

Sen. Murphy 's resolution authorizes the President to 
present a gold medal to Mrs. Walt Disney in the name 
of the people of the United States and the Congress, 
"jn recognition of Walt Disney's distinguished public 
service and outstanding contributions to the United 
States and to the world." 

The bill, as passed by the Senate, also authorizes 
California Institute of the Arts to purchase, from the 
Treasury Department, up to 100,000 duplicate copies 
of the medal in bronze, and to use them for fund- 
raising purposes. 


» 
mn te лғы N d На 
Жалды бе [e bt 


i eryone & 








SPECIAL REPORT 
Mineral King 


Walt Disney Productions’ efforts to realize a year- 
round public recreational facility at Mineral King, Cal- 
ifornia were aimed this year at gaining commitments 
for an adequate, all-weather road to the site. Road 
assurance is required in the agreement with the U.S. 
Forest Service, which named the company in 1965 to 
create the much needed outdoor recreation area in the 
High Sierra. 

Our efforts were successful as evidenced by two sig- 
nificant developments — the California Highway Com- 
mission’s adoption of a seven year financing program 
for that road, and its approval of the California High- 
way Engineer’s 20.4 mile route. This program contem- 
plates completion of the road in October, 1973. Based 
on that schedule, the Company’s initial facilities would 
open the ensuing winter. 

However, the road must cross 8.5 miles of Sequoia 
National Park, administered by the Department of 
Interior’s National Park Service. In November, the 
State of California requested final grant of the right of 
way across the designated portion of the National Park. 

Prior to the public call by the U.S. Forest Service 
for bids to develop the area, the National Park Service 
agreed in principle to this new right of way and repre- 
sentations to that effect were made to the bidders. The 
Secretary of the Interior has assumed direction of the 
matter and as we go to press, we are awaiting his final 
confirmation authorizing the Park Service to act. 





НІНЕН: 





BEER ЗЕРЕ» E 


Ё 


HHS IBO ЕНІНЕН 


55. 














Е 2 








P 





MX «И j 
цеф 
*/ America 


4. 113 


2810108 


PROCEE 
DINGS AND DEBATES 
OF THE 90% 


WASHIN TIRNA —— 

G — 

TON, TUESDAY, JUNE "ود‎ = 
, 1967 


SPECIAL REPORT 


Jungle Book sets records 


Nationwide release of The Jungle Book across 
the U.S.A. at Christmas was preceded by its first 
foreign engagement, at the Studio One Theatre 
in London’s West End. By the time its third week 
was underway, the newest Disney animated clas- 
sic had broken the boxoffice record — not once, 
but twice. 

On November 18, Jungle Book recorded the 
biggest single day gross in the theatre's history. 
On December 2, the daily gross established still 
another new high, topping the two-week-old 
November 18 record. 

The Happiest Millionaire was also off to an 
auspicious start in its Christmas-season engage- 
ment at Radio City Music Hall. In its first week 
ended December 6, Millionaire exceeded the 
first-week gross of its two Disney holiday prede- 
cessors in the same theatre. The second week, 
incomplete as we go to press, began with another 
new high when Millionaire set a non-holiday Sat- 
urday record for the Music Hall. 


No. 97 


SPECIAL REPORT 


Disney on Parade 


From the Orange Bowl to the Cotton Bowl to the 
Rose Bowl, Walt Disney Productions was almost 
as dominant on the television screens New Year's 
Day as the king for the day, football. 

At the Tournament of Roses Parade in Pasa- 
dena, Helms Bakeries float presented “Тһе Won- 
derful Worlds of Walt Disney," complete with 
our characters in flowers, Mickey and the Dis- 
neyland Band, while Bank of America saluted 
"It's A Small World" in a colorful floral display. 

At the Cotton Bowl Parade in Dallas, the 
banks of that city joined together to sponsor à 
float featuring the Disneyland castle and a 
variety of cartoon characters. 

And at the Orange Bowl, in Miami," The World 
of Walt Disney" was the entire parade theme, 
with Mickey Mouse as Grand Marshal and 10 
Disney-themed floats, including one featuring 
The Jungle Book. 

It was a big year in general for Disney on 
parade, with Detroit's Thanksgiving Day show, 
Chicago's State Street Parade, and St. Louis' 
"Veiled Prophet Parade" all highlighting familiar 
Disney subjects. 

The New Year's parades alone were viewed 
by television audiences estimated at nearly 


150,000,000 in all. 


SPECIAL REPORT 
“Blackbeard” and the Olympics 


At press time, arrangements were underway for 
a major premiere in Los Angeles to launch 
Blackbeard's Ghost, and at the same time benefit 
the United States Olympic Team. The tie-in, of 
course, is Blackbeard's hilarious “track meet,” in 
which Ghost Peter Ustinov — invisible to all 
except coach Dean Jones — helps the underdog 
by hindering the favorite., 

During the past year, the Studio marketing 
staff, with an experienced hand from Disney- 
land's Operations and Special Events Depart- 
ments, has become the industry's foremost prac- 
titioneer of the Hollywood art of gala kick-offs 
for motion pictures. 

[n all, there were 10 around the country for The 
Happiest Millionaire, each benefiting California 
Institute of the Arts — Walt's dream of a school 
of all the arts, whose ground-breaking is now 
scheduled for this year. And the Los Angeles Zoo 
Association realized a handsome profit while 
helping promote the opening of The Jungle Book 
with a unique (for Hollywood) “family premiere" 
at Grauman's Chinese Theatre. 





| 


Hj 
lie 


| 


Ha 
ШШ 


1 


i 


em 
ШЫП 


HI FEF 
TEHN 
ШШЩ] 


H 
i 


H 
He 








18 


PARENT COMPANY 


WALT DISNEY PRODUCTIONS 

500 So. Buena Vista Street, Burbank, California 
Produces motion pictures for theatrical and television 
distribution — operates Disneyland Park — operates 


Celebrity Sports Center — conducts ancillary activities. 


DOMESTIC SUBSIDIARIES 


BUENA VISTA DISTRIBUTION COMPANY, INC. 
Irving H. Ludwig — President 

Distributes, syndicates and sells only the product 
of Walt Disney Productions comprised of 35mm 
theatrical film, 16mm film, television shows and 
records and albums. 


BUENA VISTA INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
Edmund F. Clarke — President 

Supervises the distribution of Walt Disney 
Productions 35mm theatrical film, 16mm film 
and television shows in foreign countries. 


WALT DISNEY MUSIC COMPANY 
James A. Johnson — President 
Music Publishing — ASCAP attiliate. 


WONDERLAND MUSIC COMPANY, INC. 
James A. Johnson — President 
Music Publishing — BMI affiliate. 


WED ENTERPRISES, INC., AND ITS SUBSIDIARY 
MAPO, INC. 


Joseph W. Fowler — Chairman of the Board 


Orbin V. Melton — President— Chief Administration Officer 


Richard F. Irvine — Vice Chairman of the Board — 
Executive Vice President — Chief Operations Officer 
John C. Hench — Vice President — Production 


Imagineers, creates, designs and fabricates new projects. 


WALT DISNEY WORLD CO. 

Donn B. Tatum — President 

William E. Potter — Vice President — EPCOT Planning 
Robert P. Foster — Vice President — General Counsel 
Florida Project. 


CORPORATE OFFICERS 
Roy O. Disney President and Chairman of the Board 


Donn B. Tatum Executive Vice President — Administration 
and Vice Chairman of the Board 


E. Cardon Walker Executive Vice President — Operations 


William H. Anderson Vice President — Production and 
Studio Operations 


Joseph W. Fowler Vice President — Disneyland Operations 
Oliver B. Johnston Vice President — Merchandising 
Bonar Dyer Vice President — Industrial Relations 


Spencer C. Olin Vice President — General Attorney, Talent, 
Properties, Copyrights and Patents 


Richard T. Morrow Vice President — General Attorney, 
Corporate, Finance 


Nolan Browning Vice President — Finance — Florida Project 
Franklin Waldheim ۷/۵۵ President and Eastern Counsel 
Luther R. Marr Secretary — Legal 

Michael L. Bagnall Assistant Secretary 

Lawrence E. Tryon Treasurer 

Donald A. Escen Assistant Treasurer and Controller 
Richard L. Johnson Assistant Treasurer 


Leland L. Kirk Assistant Controller 


STOCK TRANSFER AGENTS: Bank of America, М.Т. & S. A., Los Angeles, California; 
Bankers Trust Company, New York, N.Y. 

STOCK REGISTRARS: United California Bank, Los Angeles, California; First National 
City Bank, New York, N.Y. 

STOCK EXCHANGES: The common stock of the Company is listed for trading on the 
New York and Pacific Coast Stock Exchanges. 

INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS: Price Waterhouse & Co., Los Angeles, California. 


ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS: First Tuesday in February at the offices of 
the Company, 500 South Buena Vista Street, Burbank, California. 


This report is distributed for the information of stockholders and employees of the 
Company. It is not to be considered either as a prospectus or circular in connection 
with the purchase and/or sale of securities nor is it to be considered a part of the 
proxy soliciting material of the Company for the annual meeting of its stockholders. 


به 
وهر 
- 
5 
۰ 
T‏ 


- LI 
1 
Ж 
i$ 
LI 
L] 
І 
Ns 
ЧЕ 
: a 
< 
53 
Л 
, 0 





This has been another very good year for your com- 
pany. Gross revenues reached a new high for the 
seventh year in a row, totaling $117,486,000 as 
compared to $116,543,000 for 1966. A dramati- 
cally increased attendance at Disneyland boosted 
revenues from this source by over $10 million, off- 
setting a decrease in film rentals. 

Net income was $11,267,000 compared to 
$12,392,000 for 1966, which represents $2.74 per 
share for 1967 and $3.08 per share for 1966. The 
1967 figures include the non-recurring item of 
$900,000 non-taxable net life insurance proceeds 
equal to 22¢ per share. The per share earnings are 
expressed in amounts which reflect the two for one 
stock split effective to stockholders of record on 
October 26, 1967. 

The company disbursed $23,264,000 in the year 
just ended for capital asset additions, primarily for 
the new Tomorrowland area at Disneyland, more 
fully described in the preceding pages of this report. 
The coming year we plan capital expenditures, 
mainly pertaining to our Florida project, of ap- 
proximately $17 million. On the Balance Sheet, 
Disneyland capital additions are included in “En- 
tertainment Attractions and Facilities." However, 
these assets contribute substantially to current rev- 
enues and are a very important source of our work- 
ing capital although not classified as such because 
of traditional general accounting practices. 

During the summer, negotiations with labor 
unions at Disneyland were concluded with a three- 
year contract to February 28, 1970, resulting in 
annual increases in labor and fringe benefit costs, 
generally in line with the current pattern of union 
contract settlements. 

The cash dividends of 106 quarterly (prior to 
stock split) paid last year aggregated $812,000. On 
January 1, 1967, a 3% stock dividend was paid to 
stockholders of record November 30, 1966, pur- 





suant to which 117,628 shares of common stock 
were issued (adjusted for stock split). The Board 
of Directors, at a meeting on November 9, 1967, 
declared a quarterly cash dividend of 7۷26 per 
share and a 396 stock dividend payable on January 
1, 1968, to stockholders of record on December 6, 
1967. This represents a 5046 increase in cash divi- 
dends. 

From 1957 through 1967 net income has 
amounted to $67,970,000. The company has made 
cash dividend payments of $7,574,000 and stock 
dividends (including distribution on January 1, 
1968) totaling 1,026,436 shares of its common 
stock (adjusted for stock split), which represented 
the equivalent of $25,174,000 based on the market 
price of the stock on the various dates the stock 
dividends were declared. 

It is likely that a similar dividend policy will con- 
tinue, but it will be reviewed periodically by the 
Board of Directors, in light of earnings and other 
factors. This policy permits the company to retain 
funds equivalent to the value of the stock dividend 
for use in the expansion program and allows those 
stockholders who wish to have the cash to sell the 
dividend shares on the market. The chart on page 
27 illustrates the growth in stockholders' equity 
through this policy. 

In accordance with the authority granted by the 
shareholders at the last annual meeting, 446 em- 
ployees have been granted stock options for 397,000 
shares, as detailed in Note 6 to the enclosed finan- 
cial statements. The number of employees involved 
in this plan emphasizes the scope and depth of the 
company's staff and serves the dual function of giv- 
ing recognition and incentive to the large number of 
key people of all age and operational levels upon 
whose competence our future prosperity so largely 
depends. 

In a further move to prepare the company for the 


great period of expansion that lies immediately 
ahead, the Board of Directors at a meeting held on 
November 9, 1967, elected Mr. Donn B. Tatum and 
Mr. E. Cardon Walker to the newly created posi- 
tions of Executive Vice President-Administration 
and Executive Vice President-Operations, respec- 
tively. In addition, Mr. Tatum will serve as Vice 
Chairman of the Board of Directors. 

I, personally, have agreed to continue as Presi- 
dent, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive 
Officer under a new five-year contract with the com- 
pany. 

In his new position, Mr. Tatum will be responsi- 
ble for the supervision and coordination of the ac- 
tivities of the corporate functional departments and 
committees such as finance, capital programs, legal, 
labor and stockholder relations. 

Mr. Walker will be responsible for the supervi- 
sion of all operating divisions and activities of the 
company, including production, marketing, Disney- 
land, the Florida operations, music, merchandising 
and Celebrity Sports Center. 

In further action, the Board of Directors elected 
Mr. Nolan Browning to the position of Vice Presi- 
dent — Finance — Florida Project. 

These officers will, of course, report to me as 
Chief Executive Officer. 

Most gratifying to me is the great spirit of con- 
fidence and enthusiasm with which our entire or- 
ganization looks to the future. 


December 5, 1967 > : 
Burbank, California в Sur ۰ 


President and Chairman of the Board 








20 


ASSETS 


CURRENT ASSETS 
Cash 
Accounts receivable 


Inventories — at the lower of cost or market 
Completed productions — less amortization (note 2) . 


Productions in process . 
Story rights and pre-production costs . 


Merchandise, materials and supplies 


Total current assets 


ENTERTAINMENT ATTRACTIONS AND FACILITIES — at cost 


Less: Accumulated depreciation 


STUDIO BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT AND OTHER PROPERTIES — at cost . 


Less: Accumulated depreciation 


LAND —at cost (note 3) . 


OTHER ASSETS 


Patents — at cost less amortization 


Investments in foreign subsidiaries not consolidated (note 1) . 


Sundry other assets and deferred charges . 


See notes to the financial statements on page 25 





CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 


Oct. 1,1966 


$ 3,417,000 
2,233,000 


9,048,000 
19,935,000 
1,180,000 
2,277,000 
38,090,000 


54,867,000 
(21,018,000) 
33,849,000 


18,286,000 
(7,684,000) 
|. 10,602,000 


11,651,000 


2,261,000 
166,000 
1,847,000 
4,274,000 
$98,466,000 








Walt Disney Productions and Domestic Subsidiaries 


Oct. 1, 1966 
CURRENT LIABILITIES 
Instalments due within year on notes payable . $ 1,532,000 
Accounts payable 6,711,000 
Advance under contract . 1,000,000 
Payroll and employee benefits . 2,632,000 
Property, payroll and other taxes . 2,099,000 
Estimated federal income taxes (note 4) . 7,205,000 
| Total current liabilities . 21,179,000 
۱ LIABILITIES 
AND UNEARNED DEPOSITS AND RENTALS . 2,153,000 
STOCKHOLDERS 
EQUITY LONG TERM LIABILITIES 

Unsecured notes — less current instalment (note 3) . 5,000,000 
Secured notes — less current instalments (note 3) 1,450,000 
Deferred compensation 961,000 
7,411,000 
ESTIMATED DEFERRED FEDERAL INCOME TAXES (note 4). 2,150,000 

STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY — per accompanying statement 
Invested capital (note 6) . 26,760,000 
Accumulated earnings (notes 3 and 6) 38,813,000 
65,573,000 
$98,466,000 





See notes to the tinancial statements on page 25 21 








22 


STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME 


INCOME (note 7) 
Theatrical films . 
Television . 
Disneyland Park and other entertainment activities . 


Other — publications, merchandising, music and records . 


Total income 


COSTS AND EXPENSES 
Amortization of theatrical and television production costs (note 2) . 
Distribution costs — prints, advertising, etc. 
Costs of Disneyland Park and other entertainment activities . 
Costs applicable to other income . 
General, administrative and selling expenses . 
Interest . 
Story, pre-production and imagineering costs abandoned . 


Estimated federal income taxes (note 4). 


Total costs and expenses . 


INCOME BEFORE NON-RECURRING ITEM . 
LIFE INSURANCE PROCEEDS (note 8) 
NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 


PER SHARE (adjusted for stock split and stock dividend) 
Income before non-recurring item . 


Life insurance proceeds . 


Net income 


* Restated for comparative purposes 


See notes to the financial statements on page 25 





Year Ended 


Oct. 1, 1966 


$ 55,756,000 
7,902,000 
41,466,000 
11,419,000 


116,543,000 


10,692,000 
21,869,000 
36,516,000 * 
7,977,000 
12,805,000 
1,067,000 
3,125,000* 
10,100,000 
104,151,000 


12,392,000 


$ 12,392,000 








STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY 


Year Ended 
Oct. 1, 1966 
INVESTED CAPITAL (note 6) 
At beginning of year із ae Oe ж.ж и $22,842,000 
Stock dividends — market value of 117,628 and 112,684 shares issued 3,091,000 
Stock options — proceeds from exercise of 81,512 and 54,626 shares . 827,000 
At end of year 26,760,000 
| 
| ACCUMULATED EARNINGS (notes 3 and 6) 
| At beginning of year 30,283,000 
| Net income for the year 12,392,000 
Dividends paid 
In cash (206 per share, on shares outstanding during year) (771,000) 
In stock . (3,091,000) 
At end of year 38,813,000 
TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY . $65,573,000 
REPRESENTED BY 
Common shares, $1.25 par value (note 6) 
Authorized . 6,000,000 
4,024,730 


Issued and outstanding . 





See notes to the financial statements on page 25 23 














SOURCES AND USES OF CONSOLIDATED WORKING CAPITAL 


WORKING CAPITAL CAME FROM 
Net income for the year 
Plus non-cash charges to income account 
Depreciation 
Patents amortization . 
Deferred compensation . 
Deferred federal income taxes 
Life insurance proceeds (note 8) 
Proceeds from exercise of stock options 


Long term borrowings . 


WORKING CAPITAL WAS USED FOR 
Additions to plant and equipment 


Entertainment attractions and facilities 


Studio buildings, equipment and other properties . 


Land . 


Payments on long term borrowings . 
Cash dividends . 
Other 


INCREASE (DECREASE) IN WORKING CAPITAL . 


WORKING CAPITAL AT END OF YEAR . 


24 See notes to the financial statements on page 25 





Year Ended 


Oct. 1, 1966 
$12,392,000 


5,556,000 
244,000 
153,000 
325,000 


827,000 


19,497,000 


16,757,000 
5,006,000 
245,000 
22,008,000 
1,593,000 
771,000 
(212,000) 
24,160,000 


($ 4,663,000) 


$16,911,000 





Opinion of 
Independent Accountants 


To the Board of Directors and Stockholders 
of Walt Disney Productions 


In our opinion, the accompanying consoli- 
dated balance sheet, the related statements of 
consolidated income and stockholders equity 
and the statement of sources and uses of 
consolidated working capital present fairly the 
financial position of Walt Disney Productions 
and domestic subsidiaries at September 30, 
1967, the results of their operations and the 
supplementary information on sources and 
uses of working capital for the year (52 weeks), 
in conformity with generally accepted account- 
ing principles applied on a basis consistent 
with that of the preceding year. Our examina- 
tion of these statements was made in accord- 
ance with generally accepted auditing stand- 
ards and accordingly included such tests of 
the accounting records and such other audit- 
ing procedures as we considered necessary 
in the circumstances. 


PRICE WATERHOUSE & CO. 


Los Angeles, California 
December 5, 1967 





NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Note1 PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION 

The accounts of domestic subsidiaries, all wholly- 
owned, have been consolidated in the accompanying 
financial statements and all significant intercompany 
transactions have been eliminated. 

The accounts of foreign subsidiaries have not been 
consolidated. These companies produce and distribute 
pictures, carry on the company's character merchandis- 
ing business and publish music in various countries. At 
September 30, 1967, these subsidiaries had total assets 
of $2,696,000 and net assets of $914,000. The company's 
equity in these net assets exceeded the carrying value of 
its investments therein by $748,000. During the year 
ended September 30, 1967 the net loss of these unconsol- 
idated subsidiaries amounted to approximately $68,000 
and the dividends received from them totaled $131,000. 


Note2 INVENTORIES AND FILM AMORTIZATION 

Costs of completed theatrical and television produc- 
tions are amortized by charges to income in the propor- 
tion that the producer's share of income (less distribution, 
print, co-producer participation and advertising costs) 
received by the company for each production bears to 
the estimated total of such income to be received. Such 
estimates of total income are reviewed periodically and 
amortization is adjusted accordingly. 


Note3 LONG TERM LIABILITIES 

The unsecured notes comprise a 53496 note in the 
amount of $10,000,000 payable on April 15, 1969 and a 
5.996 note in the amount of $3,750,000 payable in annual 
instalments of $1,250,000 to 1970. The agreement under- 
lying the $3,750,000 note requires the company and its 
domestic subsidiaries to maintain a minimum $5,000,000 
working capital and restricts $15,726,000 of the accumu- 
lated earnings at September 30, 1967 as to payment of 
cash dividends. 

The secured notes are payable in instalments with 
varying maturities to 1975 with interest payable at rates 
varying from 4% to 6%. These notes are secured by land 
costing $3,412,000. 


Note4 ESTIMATED FEDERAL INCOME TAXES 
The Internal Revenue Service has examined the com- 
pany's income tax returns for fiscal years 1957 through 


1962 and has proposed additional assessments, which 
the company is contesting, generally relating to the 
timing of certain deductions and the appropriateness of 
certain tax credits claimed by the company during the 
periods under examination. Provision has been made in 
the financial statements for all taxes believed to be pay- 
able for all open years. 

The "Estimated Deferred Federal Income Taxes" on 
the accompanying balance sheet represents taxes which 
will not become payable until some future year as a result 
of using an accelerated depreciation method for tax pur- 
poses and the straight line method for financial statement 
purposes. 


Note5 PENSION PLANS 

The company has a pension plan covering substantially 
all of its employees not covered separately by various 
union or industry pension plans. The plan is funded by 
company and employee contributions to a trust adminis- 
tered by a bank. Contributions by the company for the 
year of $412,000 include $137,000 toward payment of 
the actuarially computed past service cost under a sched- 
ule which will require approximately 20 more years to 
complete. The schedule was revised this year to give 
effect to the increased prior service costs resulting from 
a change which increased by two-thirds the monthly 
retirement benefits payable under the plan. 

The company has no past service liability under the 
various union and industry plans. 


Note6 STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY 

A 3% stock dividend paid to holders of record on 
November 30, 1966 resulted in a $3,654,000 transfer from 
accumulated earnings to invested capital. Subsequent to 
the year end, a 3% stock dividend was declared to hold- 
ers of record on December 6, 1967. 

A stock split was authorized by the Board of Directors 
and stockholders whereby each stockholder of record on 
October 26, 1967 received one additional share of com- 
mon stock for each share already held on that date. In 
addition, the par value for all shares was changed from 
$2.50 per share to $1.25 per share. The financial state- 
ments at September 30, 1967 have been adjusted to give 
effect to the stock split. 





All stock options existing at the beginning of the year, 
which were granted in 1962 under a restricted stock 
option plan, were exercised during the year at prices 
(adjusted for stock dividends and the stock split) of 
$15.06 and $11.63 per share. Under a new qualified stock 
option plan approved by stockholders during 1967 op- 
tions were granted to key executive, management and 
creative personnel at prices of $40.78 and $46.69 per 
share which prices were 100% of the market value on 
the dates granted. At year end none of these options were 
exercisable. Transactions under the plans during the 
year (adjusted for stock dividend and stock split) were 
as follows: 


Options Available 
Granted for Option 
Balance at October 1, 1966 81,512 
Exercised during the year (81,512) 


Authorized during the year 400,000 
Granted during the year 397,000 (397,000) 
Balance at September 30, 1967 397,000 3,000 

















Note 7 METHOD OF ACCOUNTING FOR REVENUE 

The company records foreign income at the time of 
receipt of remittances in United States dollars or at the 
time of expenditures of foreign currencies abroad for the 
account of the company. At September 30, 1967 and 
October 1, 1966, there were at current rates of exchange 
approximately $1,726,000 and $2,386,000 (before co-pro- 
ducer participation, film production cost amortization and 
income taxes) in foreign countries representing income 
which has not been recorded as assets or as income in 
the accompanying statements. 


Note 8 LIFE INSURANCE PROCEEDS 

Life insurance proceeds of $1,500,000 were received 
during the fiscal year under life insurance contracts 
which the company maintained on Walt Disney. The 
excess of $900,000 over the cash surrender value of 
$600,000 at October 1, 1966 has been taken into the 
income account and reported separately as a non-recur- 
ring, non-taxable item. 


25 





- ee 


۳۹ oco» "Fa GM Ge o3 RO A os AUI POS هذ‎ 





26 





FIVE YEAR REVIEW (000 omitted from dollar amounts except for per share amounts) 


FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30 


OPERATIONS 


Total income 

Income before taxes . 

Taxes on income 

Net income . 

Cash dividends. 

Stock dividends 

Retained in business . 

Depreciation provision 

Net income 
Per cent of total income 
Per cent of stockholders equity (beginning of year) . 
Per share”. 

Cash dividends per share (on shares outstanding during year) 


YEAR END FINANCIAL POSITION 


Current assets . 
Working capital . . . . . . . . 
Entertainment attractions and facilities . 
Studio buildings, equipment and other properties 
Accumulated depreciation . 
Total assets . 
Stockholders equity 
Per share”. «>а 
Number of shares outstanding * 


* Adjusted for 2 for 1 stock split effective October 26, 1967 and 3% annual stock dividend. 


1967 


117,486 


19,567 
8,300 
11,267 
812 
396 
10,455 
7,609 


9.6% 
17.2% 
2.74 
.20 


43,429 
21,411 
75,941 
19,020 
35,553 


118,628 


77,210 
18.80 
4,107 


1966 


116,543 


22,492 
10,100 
12,392 
771 
3% 
11,621 
5,556 


10.6% 
23.3% 
3.08 
.20 


38,090 
16,911 
54,867 
18,286 
28,702 
98,466 
65,573 

16.29 

4,025 


1965 


109,947 


21,529 
10,150 
11,379 
37 
396 
10,642 
7,324 


10.396 
27.4% 
2.87 
.20 


43,501 
21,574 
45,768 
13,857 
31,228 
88,154 
53,125 

13.38 

3,968 


1964 


86,651 
12,749 
9,692 
7,057 
707 
3% 
6,350 
6,459 


8.1% 
20.2% 
1.81 
.20 


31,720 
18,221 
40,615 
13,512 
26,284 
67,883 
41,494 

10.62 

3,900 


1963 


81,922 
12,674 
6,100 
6,574 
685 
396 
5,889 
3,692 


8.096 
22.7% 
1.69 
.20 


34,326 
18,122 
34,131 
12,162 
21,590 
66,820 
34,998 
8.98 
3,889 





MILLIONS OF DOLLARS 


RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL 

































70 
COMPARISON OF PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, WORKING CAPITAL AND LONG TERM LIABILITIES и 
60 — ENTERTAINMENT ATTRACTIONS AND FACILITIES 5 ШШ NET ۸ 
ШИ STUDIO BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT AND OTHER PROPERTIES 3 0 
50 P LONG TERM LIABILITIES 5 40 
e 
EE " 
PE. MM BC 
tl аш - 
28 » m 
20 Ұй 28% 5 17% | 
as „# BE E 
«| Е BN 
n I 62-63 63-64 64-65 65-66 66-67 ۱ 
1963 | 
DISTRIBUTION OF INCOME ۱ 
25 سا‎ income mes ЕГЕП Ш 
CASH FLOW AND CAPITAL ADDITIONS نت‎ Ж ERAS 
25 20 —- | 
CASH NON-CASH CHARGES TO INCOME 3 | 
MOW NET INCOME | " 
20 S Bm 
с = 15 — 
5 = 0 
= ШШ CAPITAL ADDITIONS | ч 
5 5 LRL : 
2 2 0 
S = 
= 10 
= 
5 
5 
1963 1964 1965 196 1967 1963 ۰ 1964 1965 1966 1967 


27 








سل( 


0 Snow White 1 X 


-- 


١ 
١ 
2 


> 
ғ 


00 ; D Ma “ 
nh one Disneyland / ‘eT 
attraction lets you olf К 1 М; % 
right ІП VOUF ow Р) 7 “ м та 
1 ۹ 7 7 А | ' 


home t МТ], 


1 
١ 1 
, 


0 
IST 










TLANTIC 
АСАМ SUNSWEETe 
<P i COMPANY ۰ АЕ 















М ИНА I 9 IN Á NA ME ? ‘On these pages appear some 


of the great names in American free enterprise. Their products and 
services run the gamut of life’s individual and corporate needs, from 
washing machines and TV sets to computers and jet engines. 


The similarities of these companies are few, the public “image” 
and style of each quite different. Yet there is a common bond that 
links these great corporations. For each has joined hands with 
Walt Disney Productions to communicate with its customers, ranging 
from basic consumer to biggest government. In Disneyland and 
on television, through magazines and newspapers and point-of- 
purchase displays, in recruiting brochures and on motion picture 


Se e CIRCLE ‘VISION at | screens — the magic of the Disney name has reached out 
A ec ЖЖ апа touched the diverse audiences of each of these companies. 
۸ “- 
3/6 The association of Disney and industry has always been іп the best 
М е tradition of the American free enterprise system. Just as we practice 
am? "entertainment at a profit," other companies have profited by 
association with our entertainment. Our entertainment profits from 


this association too; for in advertising their products, these major 
companies keep our name and our products continually before the public. 
























کہ 


In terms of size and scope and dollars expended by major corporations 
to market their association with Walt Disney Productions, 
1967 was easily the banner year. These are but a few of the 
major examples. For today, as in the past, people everywhere 


continue to 7 QOK TO THE NAME WALT DISNEY 
FOR THE FINEST IN FAMILY ENTERTAINMENT. 


TI ЕХ WURLIIZER 


0:0 TON 


Pen ET м ох a ер 
"pil. 8 EGON 


ибім WOOL 








3 
LOOK TO THE NAME (акъ FOR THE FINEST IN FAMILY ENTERTAINMENT 


