
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



Can 
e03 



6ao izf.r^.j 




HARVARD COLLEGE UBRARY 

From the Library of 
WILLIAM INGUS MORSE 

The Gift of his Daughter 
MRS. FREDERICK W. HILLES 




FIRST THINGS IN CANADA. 



ALPHABET 

OK 

First Things in Canada 

A Ready Reference Book of Canadian Events. 



QEORGE JOHNSON. 

HONORARY FELLOW OP THE ROYAL STATISTICAL SOCIETY 
OF LONDON, ENG., ETC., ETC. 



THIRD BDITION 



In such indexes . . . 

. . . there is seen 

The baby figure of the giant mass 

Of things to come at large. 

— Shakespeare. 



Ottawa : 
Printed by The Mortimer Co. I^imited. 

1897. 



C (^V 



s/ 



/-"^.if, J 



, HARVARD^. 

|university| 

LIBRARY 
JAN l\ XM 



Entered according to Act of the Parliament of Canada, in the year one thousand eight 
hundred and ninety-iseven, by Gborgb Johkson, at the Department of Agriculture. 



CORRECTIONS. 

Page. 

4 — Twentieth line, Seiguier should be S/guier. 

46 — Tenth line, Setutte should be Synod. 

74 — Elections General Dominion, addyiww^ 23rd ^ iSgd. 
121 — First line, Camigan should be Carhnan, 
141 — End of second paragraph^ add British India, admitted Sept, 24thy rSgrj, 



^ 



*■*-■» 

> 



INTRODUCTION. 



The third edition of Alphabet of First Things in Canada is here 
presented to the public. The scope of the work has been greatly enlarge^. 
The aim has been to make it a ready reference book of Canadian events. 

An effort has been made to collect succinct accounts of the numerous 
organizations of various kinds which have been founded in Canada for the pro- 
motion of social, literary and other aims. Illustrating, as these organizations 
do, the activity of a people, I regret that the effort has been only partially 
successful. In the course of time, doubtless a more satisfactory result will be 
obtained. 

Objection has been raised to the seeming triviality of some of the notes 
given in former editions. But it is extremely difficult to decide what is trivial 
and what important. To some it may appear trivial to record the fact that the 
Acadian French have selected L'Assomption Day as their national day, instead 
of St. Jean-Baptiste Day selected by the Canadian French. A significant racial 
fact underlies the selection. 

In the 1 6th century Spain was the mistress of the seas, the wealthiest 
country in the world. Into her lap the new world poured its stores of gold and 
silver. She is now in a condition of decadence — "on her last legs," many 
think. Her degeneration has been traced to the debasement of the Vellon 
coinage — the largest of the debased tokens being a piece of only a quarter of a 
ryal ; equivalent to three cents of our money. This debased coinage (begun 
in 1566) in time dominated the financial system of Spain, became the standard 
of all values and, according to a well known law, drove the better money out 
of circulation, maintaining its pernicious grip century after century despite all 
efforts of sagacious statesmen to remedy the evils inflicted. The Vellon coin- 
age was very trivial to appearance but it undermined the financial strength of 
one of the great nations. 

A second objection made to the previous editions was the paucity of in- 
formation afforded in many instances where a fuller statement would have given 
the seeker all he wanted instead of merely supplying a date. I have sought to 
meet this objection ; with the result that that the present edition is much more 
a cyclopedia of Canadian facts and dates than were the former editions. To 
illustrate my meaning reference is suggested to "Confederation," "Exhibi- 
tions," "Libraries," "Slavery," "Temperance," etc., in all of which, with 
scores of others that might be mentioned, the germ contained in the first and 
second editions has been enlarged so as to include the salient points of a histo- 
rical presentation. 

GEORGE JOHNSON, 

F. S. S, (Hon,) 
OiTAWA, September, 1897. 



Corrections to Be Made. 



Page I — 5th line from bottom, 24 should be 14. 
2 — ** America " Markin should be Martin. 

49 — 17th line from top, 29th should be 19th. 

56— •*i6lh," 1938, should be 1838. 

65--i8th line from top, 1892 should be 1792. 

74 — " Elections Dominion,*' Sep. 10 should be Sep. 17. 

84 — ^4th line from bottom, add at beginning, England to. 

89— 17th line from top, 1887 should be 1877. 
109 — ** William Gregory, 1794," should be 1764. 
157 — 5th line from bottom, 1893 should be 1873. 

166 — 26th and 27th lines from top, 1829 and 1832 should be 1729 and 1732. 
172— July 20th, 1892, should be 1872. 
174 -** Speakers," 1897 should be 1896. 
202— 2nd line from bottom, 1779 should be 1769. 
206— 25th line from top, 1893 should be 1793. 



ALPHABET OF FIRST THINGS 
IN CANADA. 



Academy of Arts, Royal Canadian, founded by the Marquis of Lome, 1880. 
The first meeting of the members took place in Ottawa, March 6th, 1880. 
The first exhibition was opened by the Governor-General on the same 
dale. The title ** Royal Canadian " was conferred by Her Majesty, 22nd 
June, 1880. The first President was L. R. O'Brien. The objects of the 
Academy are (i) the institution of a National Gallery in Ottawa, (2) the 
holding of exhibitions in the principal cities of the Dominion, and (3) 
the establishment of Schools of Art and Design. Since the foundation of 
the Academy 19 exhibitions have been held, one in St. John, and the 
others alternately in Toronto, Montreal and Ottawa. The Academy has 
contributed the paintings and sculpture in the National Gallery at Ottawa, 
and donates $500 annually for the support of classes for drawing from the 
living model in Toronto, Montreal and Ottawa. Her Royal Highness the 
Princess Louise took a lively interest in the formation of this Society. 

Acadia — A term of varying quantity, the facts relating to which are as fol- 
lows :— Inthe year 1603 the King of France granted to the Sieurde Monts 
a commission to be his Lieutenant-General of North America, lying be- 
tween the latitudes 40° and 46°, to which the King gave the name Acadia. 
This would include the whole of Nova Scotia and a part of New Bruns- 
wick, from the St. Croix River to the Gulf of St. Lawrence, Fredericton 
and Moncton being on the northern limit, the first within, and the second 
outside, the line. Prince Edward Island was not included. In 162 1 King 
James I. granted to Sir William Alexander all Acadia, and all the remain- 
ing portion from the 46° of latitude to the River St. Lawrence, the whole 
being called Nova Scotia. In the Treaty of Utrecht (1713) the words of 
transfer used were ** Npva Scotia or Acadia," as if the two terms were 
synonymous ; hence, of late years, the idea that Acadia included not only 
Nova ScQtia but also New Brunswick, part of (,)uebec and all of P. E. 
Island. The term Acadia has even been applied to Nova Scotia, New 
Brunswick, P. E. Island, Newfoundland, part of the Province of Quebec, 
and the Labrador coast as far north as Ungava Bay. 

Acadian French— First convention held in Memramcook, N.B., July, 1881. 
Papers were read on the position of the Acadians under Confederation, on 
Education, on the French language, on Agriculture and on Colonization. 
The most absorbing question was the adoption of a National Feast Day. 
This was decided by the convention adopting L*Assomption (15th August) 
instead of St. Jean Baptiste's Day (24th June), adopted by the Canadian 
French. The second convention was held at Miscouche in P. E. Island 
on 24th and 15th August, 1884, and the third at Church Point, N.S., on 
14th August, 1890. The present Judge Landry was President from 1881 
to 1890; since the latter date Senator Poirier has been President. 

Adverttsements — The 6rst railway advertisement in Canada appeared in the 
Montreal Gazetie^ 1837. (See Railways.) 
I 



9 First Things in Canada. 

Acrentsy Commercial— Vote of money to enable the Federal Government to 
employ such, first appears in the estfmates of 1884. The Dominion has 
now (1897) commercial agents in Australia, Jamaica, Antigua, St. Kitts, 
Trinidad, Demerara, France, Norway, Chili, Mexico, and Japan, and in 
the following cities in the United Kingdom : London, I^iverpool, Bristol, 
and Glasgow. These Agents make reports to the Minister of Trade and 
Commerce at Ottawa. 

Ag^cultural Colleg^es— First in Ontario founded in Guelph, 1874. This 
College in 1895 had 250 students ; 150 in the general course and 100 in 
the dairy school. It is under the general control of the Ontario Minister 
of Agriculture, and has a teaching staff t^. a ddzen professors. The first 
agricultural school in the Province of Quebec was that of Ste. Anne de la 
■ Pocati^re, 75 miles below the city of Quebec, It was founded in 1859, 
and is one of six agricultural schools in the Province, the others being at 
L'Assomption, Oka, Coropton, St. Hyacinthe and Roberval. The Nova 
Scotia School of Agriculture was established in 1885. 

Ag^Ciiltural Societies— First in Nova Scotia founded in 1789 ; Hon. R. 
Bulkeley, first President. First in Quebec, 1789, under Lord Dorchester. 
First in Ontario in 1792 by Lieut. -Governor Simcoe in Newark. These 
early societies did good work in their day and with their generation. They 
issued pamphlets and established prizes, etc. 

Allan, Sir Hug^h— The first time Sir Hugh came to Montreal was> in 1826. 
The subsequent founder of the Allan line of steamships came out in the 
brig Favourite^ which had to be pulled up the St. Mary's current by a 
dozen pairs of oxen before he could effect a landing. 

Allan Steamship Line — Began operations in 1854. The first steamer was 
named the Canadian, Regular fortnightly mail service commenced 1856 ; 
weekly service, 1859. (See "Steam Service, Ocean.") 

America — Name first appears in an edition of Ptolemy's Geography on a map 
by Hylacomylus — the assumed name of Markin Waldsemiiller, an eminent 
cosmographer of Fribourg, who issued maps about 1500-8. Americus 
Vespucci wrote to R^n^, Duke of Lorraine, giving him an account (Sept. 
4th, 1504) of his voyage, in which he stated that he, Americus Vespucci, 
had visited Paria on the mainland. Lord Dufferin conjectures that the 
Duke showed the letter to the cosmographer, who gave the name ** Amer- 
ica " to the newly discovered land, in the map then passing through his 
hands ; thus depriving both Columbus and Cabot of their rights through 
priority of discovery. 

American Folk-lore Society (Montreal branch)— Organized 1892. The 
special aim of the Society is to cultivate the rich field of research there is 
in Canada and preserve old superstitions, beliefs, songs, traditions, legends, 
etc., which may once have influenced the life of the Canadian people. 

Anthracite Coal— First mined in Canada in 1887. The place where the coal 
is mined is called Anthracite^ and is in Alberta on the line of the Canadian 
Pacific Railway. Good anthracite in 3 feet and 6 feet seams has been 
found in Queen Charlotte Islands. 

Anticosti Island and the Magdalen Islands were first placed under the juris- 
diction of Newfoundland in 1763. They were transferred to Canada in 

1774. 
Antimony— First discovered in Nova Scotia in 1885. 
Apatite, in the du Lievre River district ; first referred to by Lieut. Ingalls, 

15th Regiment, in 1829. 
Appeals in criminal cases to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council of 

England were first prohibited by Act of Parliament, Session of 1888. The 

Imperial authorities demurred to the limitation as ultra vires of the legis- 



First Things in Canada. 3 

lative powers of the Canadian Parliament. But Sir John Thompson, 
Minister of [ustice, maintained the rights of the Dominion Parliament, 
and the Imperial Government gave way. 
Apples — Apple trees were sent to Quebec from France by De Monts in i6o8-9» # 
and they throve. They were first grown in Nova Scotia in 1633. The ^Z— 
repeal, in 1866, of the Reciprocity Treaty of 1854, gave a stimulus to the ' 
development of apple-growing by directing the attention of growers to the 
English market. In 1868 Canada exported 34,495 barrels, valued at 

f 87* 333' In 1896 she exported 567,182 barrels of green apples valued at 
1,416,470, and of dried 1,007,958 pounds valued at $47,975. 

Arbitrators to determine the north-west boundaries of Ontario first met in 
Ottawa, 2nd August, 1878. The boundaries of Manitoba were origin &lly 
fixed at the instance of the delegates who came from that Province to 
Ottawa in 1870 to adjust with the Government of Canada the terms upon 
which Manitoba was to enter the Confederation. In 188 1 the true western 
boundary of Ontario was fixed as the eastern limit of Manitoba. (See 
•* Boundaries of Ontario.") 

Arbitrators to settle outstanding accounts between Ontario and Quebec 
arising out of the separation of the two Provinces in 1867, appointed in 
1868. They were Hon. David Macpherson on behalf of Ontario ; Hon. 
Judge Day on behalf of Quebec, and Hon. J. H. Gray on behalf of the 
Dominion. A majority rendered an interlocutory judgment, but Judge 
Day dissented and resigned. The remaining arbitrators continued the 
work, and in Sept. 1871, they rendered an award which it was contended 
was invalid, as made by two and not by three arbitrators. In 1878 the 
Privy Council of England decided that the award was valid. In 1892 
other arbitrators were appointed, viz.: Hon. J. A. Boyd, Hon. George W. 
Burbidge, and Sir Louis N. Casault. These made seven awards to the 
end of 1896. The report of the Minister of Finance in the Public Ac- 
counts for the year ended 30th June, 1896, contains full information 
respecting the Acts of Parliament and of the Legislatures interested, and 
also respecting the awards made to that date. 

Arbitration, Powers of, first given to Boards of Trade in Canada in 1874. 
By an Act passed in that year three members of the Board of Arbitration 
appointed by a Board of Tradfi or Chamber of Commerce have power to 
arbitrate on any commercial case or difference voluntarily submitted to 
them. 

Appropriations of Public Money by Legislatures— First ordered by section 
of the Union Act of 1840, that all appropriations of public moneys (surplus 
funds, results of taxation, etc.) should be recommended by message from 
the Governor to the Assembly. This plsj^ was continued in the Union Act 
of 1867. 

Archbishop— The Bishops of the Anglican Communion, in assembly at the 
Lambeth Conference, unanimously recognized the adoption of title of 
Archbishop in the ecclesiastical Provinces of Canada, July 26th, 1897. 

Archives, Dominion— In 1786 Lord Dorchester appointed a committee to 
examine into the condition of the old records of the Province of Quebec. 
In 1857 Hon. Joseph Howe secured from the Legislature of Nova Scotia • / 
an order for an examination of documents illustrative of the history of "^^-^ 
Nova Scotia, the result of which was the appointment of T. B. Aikins as f' , 
Provincial Archivist ; the publication of a volume of Public Documents / 
and the collecting and arranging of a large number of documents, bearing 
upon the deportation of the Acadians, the early constitutional history of 
the Province and the foundation of Halifax. 
The Dominion Archives were first established in 1872 owing to a num» 



\ FmsT Things in Canada. 

erously signed petition presented to Parliament in 1871, praying that steps 
be taken to have the materials relating to the history of the country col- 
lected and arranged for reference. On a joint report from the Senate and 
House of Commons, Parliament assigned to the Minister of Agriculture, 
who is also Minister of Arts and of Statistics, the oversight of the work. 
Mr. Douglas Brymner was appointed the Brst Archivist. His reports are 
as follows : — 
Report for 1872 in Minister of Agriculture's Report, Appendix 29. 

« jgyj ** ** ** ** 24. 

" 1874* " ** ** " 

1875-6-7-8-9-80, no reports. 

1 88 1 in Minister of Agriculture's Report, and in separate Report, Appendix i. 

1882 *' *' ** *' ** ** I. 
1 883- 1 896, in separate Reports, t 

A d^est of these Reports shows the following results : — 

1873— Visit to London, Eng., to examine documents in the British Museum, 
and in possession of the Hudson Bay Co., etc., and of the several Govern- 
mental Departments. 

1874 — Rev. Mr. Verreau made a report on documents relating to Canadian 
History in the British Museum. He examined the Seiguier Collection, the 
Harleian Manuscripts, the Haldimand Collection, the Dorchester Papers, 
etc., in London, and many documents in Continental European cities. 
Mr. Brymner obtained an order transferring the voluminous records in the 
possession of the military authorities at Halifax to the Archives in Ottawa. 

1875 — Among the additions to the Archives this year was a complete set of 
the Journsds of the Legislative Assembly of the Province of New Bruns- 
wick, from the date of the separation from Nova Scotia, 1784. 

1876 — Arrangement and classification of historical Archives going on, about 
40,000 original letters and other papers, dating back to 1780, having l)een 
prepared for binding. Valuable original journals, containing the history of 
events immediately preceding the Declaration of Independence of the 
United States, were added to the collection. 

1877 — 384 volumes of original letters and copies on various subjects were 
added. Number of volumes of military and other correspondence added. 

« J > Copying documents. 

1878-9-80— Haldimand and Bouquet Collections copied. 

The Archivist reports in 1881 that the collection in Ottawa includes the 
original military correspondence of the officers in command in Canada for 
a hundred years, during a great part of which time the Civil and Military 
rule was to some extent in the same hands ; the Haldimand and Bouquet 
Papers immediately prior and subsequent to the Revolutionary War ; mis- 
cellaneous manuscripts and a considerable collection of printed documents 
and volumes. 

1882— Collections of the public documents of Ontario and Quebec since 
Confederation; volumes Reports of the Historical Manuscripts Commission; 
43 volumes Reports of the Deputy Keeper of Records, London, and 3 
volumes of the Calendars of the Colonial series of State Papers were 
acquired. 

1883 — Mr. Brymner and Mr. Marmette each furnished reports on the work 
accomplished, the first for England and the other for France. 

1884 — Papers of Dr. Rolph in relation to the Rebellion in Upper Canada in 

* L'Abb6 Verrault's Report on Canadian Documents in European Cities, 
t Also Marmette's Report, 1883-4-5. 



First tniNcis in Canada. 5 

1837-8 were acquired. Original papers respecting the early occupation of 
Windsor, Sandwich, etc., were also obtained. State Papers in the Public 
Record Office, London, from 1759, were copied. Copies were also made 
in Rome of documents belonging to the Propaganda. The Report con- 
tains also Col. Morse's proposals for a Union of all British North Ameri- 
can Provinces. 

1885 — Documents received relating to events immediately succeeding 1759, 
containing the establishment of Civil Government, the early indications of 
discontent in the American Colonies, the difficulties which beset Garleton 
in his Government, the conduct of the war, including Burgoyne's opera- 
tions, the establishment of peace, etc. 

1886— Documents received containing the correspondence of Generals Brad- 
dock, Shirley, Johnson, Webb, Abercromby, Wolfe, Amherst and the 
Admirals Boscawen and Saunders, etc. Mr. Marmette was sent to Paris 
to examine Archives there for documents affecting the history of Canada. 
A complete collection of land titles from the first settlement of the Pro- 
vince of Quebec ; the judgments and deliberations of the Supreme Council ; 
valuable collections from private sources, &c. , were features of the year. 

1887 — Valuable additions made to the documents relating to the early eccle- 
siastical history of Quebec. The early annals of the British American 
Land Co. and the settlement of the Eastern Townships were secured. A 
set of the unpublished journals of the Legislative Assembly of Upper 
Canada was obtained. Further contributions to the Civil and Ecclesiasti- 
cal History of Canada under French rule were received. Lists of the 
Loyalists Settlers in New Brunswick ; the Charges of Chief Justice Sewell 
in 1800, in his own handwriting, are among the contributipns of the year. 
Summaries were made in Paris, of La Correspondence Genirale relating to 
Canada, Acadie, He Royale and He St. Jean. 

1888— The whole collection called the Haldimand Collection, consisting of 
232 volumes, and the Bouquet Collection (30 volumes) became accessible 
to the public in this year. There were received from the Public Records 
Office, in London, copies of documents covering the administration of 
Lieut. -Governor Alured Clarke, from November 1791 to September 1793, 
and a portion of Lord Dorchester's administration as Governor-General to 
November, 179$; the rule of Lieut. -Governor Simcoe from November, 
1 791, to August, 1796; the administration of Acting Governor Peter 
Russell. Important papers were received from private sources. The 
Calendar for the year of the Haldimand Collection contains two volumes 
of correspondence relating to military affairs in Nova Scotia. The calen- 
dering of these letters covers 516 pages of the Archivist's Report for this 
year. 

1889 — The Report of this year refers to North-west explorations j religious, 
educational and other statistics ; the Vermont negotiations ; the battle of 
Fxlgehill (otherwise Bushy Run), and Canals. It gives a continuation 
of the calendering of the Haldimand Collection, and begins and completes 
the Calendar of the Bouquet Collection. 

1890 — Report contains a calendar of State correspondence with General 
Murray, Lord Hillsborough, Lieut. -Governor Cramah^, Governor Carle- 
ton, etc. ; papers relating to the Jesuits Estate in Canada, documents 
referring to relations with the United States after the year 1783 ; to 
internal communication in Canada ; to North-west explorations and to the 
Constitutional Act of 1791. It contains Chief Justice Smith's plan of 
Union for the Provinces of British North America. 
1891 — The Report for this year gives the calendering of State papers of 
Lower Canada and of Upper Canada i documents relating to (i) Surveys 



6 l^'lRST Things in Canada. 

and Settlements; (2) war with France, 1783; (3) to designs of French 
Republicanism, Canada, and (4) to the Marriage Law of Upper Canada. 

1892 — The Report contains the continuation of the calendaring of State 
papers ; documents relating to Settlements and Surveys ; to Lower Canada 
m 1800 ; to ecclesiastical affairs in Lower Canada ; to political state of 
Upper Canada, etc. 

1893 — Report taken up with the continuation of the calendaring of State 
papers. 

1894 — Report taken up with the calendaring of documents relating to Nova 
Scotia from the year 1603 to 1800. 

1895 — Report gives the calendar of papers relating to P. E. Island, New 
Brunswick, Cape Breton and Hudson Bay ; observations on Sable Island, 
and relation of the voyage of Pierre Esprit Radisson to the North of Amer- 
ica in the year 1682 and 1683. 

The 1896 Report gives precis of the correspondence respecting the 
Indian grants on the Grand River ; respecting anticipations of the War of 
181 2 ; respecting the Roman Catholic Church in Upper Canada ; also 
calendaring of State papers of Upper and Lower Canada, 1813 to 1818, 
Sir George Prevost, Sir Gordon Drummond, Sir J. C. Sherbrooke, Lt,- 
Gov. Gore, Lt.-Gov. Sir P. Maitland, 
Arctic ArchipelasfO — In the Session of the Parliament of Canada, of 1878, 
an address to the Queen was passed, representing that doubts existed re- 
garding the Northerly and North Easterly Boundaries of the North- West 
Territories and Rupert's Land, transferred to Canada by order of Her 
Majesty in Council of the 23rd June, 1870, and that it was expedient that 
the right of Canada to all of British North America and the islands adja- 
cent thereto, (not including the Province of Newfoundland) should be 
placed beyond question. Accordingly an Imperial Order-in-Council, 
dated 1st September, 1880, was passed transferring the whole of the Arctic 
Archipelago to Canada. It includes Grinnell and EUesmere Lands, 
North Devon, the Parry Islands, Bank's Land, Prince Albert I*and, Vic- 
toria Land, North Somerset, Cumberland Island, Cockburn Island and 
Southampton Island. 
Arctic Explorations — In 1500, the first attempt to find a north-west passage 
was made by Corte Real, who discovered Labrador. 
The distances north reached by Arctic explorers are : — 

Latitude 

Degree. Mins. 

1 827 —Capt. Parry reached 82 45 

1829— Capt. Ross with the " Victory " reached 81 27 

1853— Dr. Kane with the "Advance " reached 80 35 

187 1 — Capt. Peterman with the ** Hansa " reached 81 05 
1871— Capt. Hall with the "Polaris" reached.... 82 16 
1876— Capt. Nares with the "Alert" and "Dis- 
covery reached 83 20 

1 88 1 —Lieut. Greeley with the "Proteus" reached 83 00 

1891 —Peary with the " Kite " reached 81 47 

1894 — Lieut. Parry in the " Falcon " reached 82 34 

1896— Dr. FredthofNansen*inthe"Fram" reached 86 14 



*Dr. Nansen left his ship the "Fram" (made out of the Douglas fir of British 
Columbia), in March, 1896, and with one companion started northward with sledges and 
canoes to reach the Pole across the ice. They travelled 2x2 miles and then had to turn back 
having reached a point only 350 miles from the Pole and 300 miles further north than any 
One had ever reached before. ' 



t'iRST f HINGS tN CANAbA. > 

Army Bills — First issued in Canada in 1812. The system was adopted by 
the British Government to enable it to carry on the war with the United 
States without sending any specie. The Army Bills were orders which 
were in large part to be paid in British goods. They were a form of Gov- 
ernment paper money, bearing interest on all amounts from $25 upwards, 
the principal being paid by the British and the interest by the Canadian 
Government. They were convertible, on demand, into bills of exchange 
drawn on Enjglish banks. 

Arrang^ement or 1830— The United States during the years previous to 
1830, desired, with an increasing desire, to have access to British ports in 
the West Indies and on the continent of South America. They made 
many attempts to secure a share in the valuable trade — valuable to them, 
first, because it gave them an outlet for their products, and second, because 
it promised to be a nursery for U.S. merchant seamen. They made 
several proposals to the Government of the United Kingdom, but failed 
to induce them to accede. Finally, the United States offered to make an 
addition to the previous offer of open ports to British vessels coming from 
the British West Indies in return for open ports in the British West Indies 
to United States vessels. The additional offer was : *' give United States 
vessels open ports in the British West Indies, and we will give open ports 
not only to British vessels coming from the British West Indies, but also 
to British vessels coming from the islands, colonies and provinces of Great 
Britain on or near the North American continent and north and north-east 
of the United States," in other words, to vessels belonging to Newfound- 
land and to the region now known as the Dominion of Canada. These 
proposals having been agreed to, the Congress of the United States, on 
May 29th, 1830, passed an Act providing that whenever the President of 
the United States received satisfactory evidence that the Government of 
Great Britain would "open the ports of her West Indian possessions and 
of her possessions in South America, also the Caicos and the Bahamas and 
the Bermuda Islands, to United States trading vessels, he, the President, 
should issue a proclamation, opening the ports of the United States to 
British vessels coming from the above-named British possessions, and also 
to vessels from the islands or colonies of Great Britain on or near the 
North American continent, and north or north-east of the United States. *' 
On the 5th October, 1830, the President of the United States issued his 
proclamation in the terms of the Act recited. When it became officially 
known in Great Britain, an Order in Council was passed revoking previous 
Orders in Council excluding U.S. vessels, and declaring that United 
States vessels may import from the United States into the British possess- 
ions abroad, goods, the produce of those United States, and may export 
goods from British possessions abroad to be carried to any foreign country 
whatever. In consequence of this Arrangement, which rests upon an 
Order in Council revocable at the will of the British Executive, United 
States vessels can go into ports of British West Indies on the same terms 
as Canadian vessels. While Canadian vessels have the same rights and 
privileges in United States ports as in West Indian ports. United States 
vessels have no rights and privileges in Canadian ports under the Arrange- 
ment of 1830. Thus a great business— that between the United States 
and British North America, including the British West Indies — rests upon 
an Order in Council made 67 years ago. 
Art AssOGiatton— Of Montreal, was founded in i860, and held its first annual 
meeting in 1861, under the presidency of Bishop Fulford. The first 
council comprised His Lordship the Bishop of Montreal, Hon. Messrs. 
Justices Day and McCord, Rev. Canon Leach, Mr. C. Dunkin, M.P., 



S PlRST tniKCS tN CANAbA. 

Dr. T. Sterry Hunt, Mr. Brown Chamberlain, W. H. A. Davies, Beniah 
Gibb, T. D. King, John Leeming and F. B. Matthews. 

Art Glass Industry — In Canada John Craig (1840) was the first artist 
of importance in- stained glass. About 1850 Joseph McCausland 
and William Bullock established themselves in Toronto, and executed 
many memorial and civic windows in public and private edifices in On- 
tario. Mr. McCausland is still at the business. 

The most noteworthy windows, the production of Canadian artists, are : 
The Cawthra window in St. George's church, Toronto ; the Henderson 
window, Anglican church, Perth, Ont.; the Foy window, St. Micha«rs 
Cathedral, Toronto; the Fleck window, St. Andrew's Presbyterian church, 
Ottawa; windows in Trinity College, Toronto, to Bishop Strachan, Bishop 
Bethune, Sir John Beverley Robinson, Provost Whitiker, Rev. J. D. Mac- 
kenzie, and others. The Archdeacon McMurray and the Fell memorials 
ita St. Marks, Niagara, and the new heraldic windows in the library of 
the Educational Department, Toronto, are works of great artistic merit. 
The chancel window in St. Mark's church, Niagara, is one of the earliest 
specimens of Canadian workmanship. • 

Art School (Ontario)— First opened October, 1876. 

Artillery Association — (See Dominion Artillery.) 

Artists, Society of, first founded in Montreal, in 1867. 

Artists, Ontario Society of, founded 1872. 

Asbestus— The first Canadian deposit of Asbestus was opened in 1878. The 
owners found considerable difficulty in disposing of the 50 tons which re- 
presented the first season's output. The Trade Returns for 1896 show 
that the exports for that year were: 1,839 tons of ist class Asbestos, 
4,691 tons 2Qd class, and 3,058 tons 3rd class. The total value of the ex- 
ports was $482,680. 

Assembly — The first attempt to call together a Legislative Assembly in the 
Province of Quebec, was made in 1764. It was a failure, as the members 
refrained from assembling. 

Atlantic Cable— First laid to Canadian shores August 5th, 1858. 

Atlantic Cable— First message across Canada from Queen to President, 
August 1 2th, 1858. On the following 4th of September the cable was 
rendered useless by a breakage. The steamship Great Eastern commenced 
on 2 1st July, 1865, to lay the second transatlantic cable. On the 12th 
August this cable broke. On the 13th July, 1866, the Great Eastern 
started on her second cable voyage, and on the loih of August the cable 
was successfully landed on the shores of Newfoundland. The fourth cable 
was laid by the Great Eastern^ July, 1873, and the fifth by the Faraday^ 
July, 1874; the sixth by the Great Eastertij Sept., 1874; the seventh by 
the Faraday, Aug., 1881. Cable communication between England and 
Panama was opened up Sept., 1882. Eleven cables have been laid across 
the North Atlantic ocean between Europe and America. (See Cable). 

Auditor-General for the Dominion first provided for by Act of 1878. First 
appointee, J. L. Macdougall, 2nd August, 1878. Elis reports have grown 
bulkier each year. In 1086 the Public Accounts Report became a thinner 
volume, the task of dealing wth details having been transferred to the 
Auditor- General. 

Bait Act— Newfoundland Bait Act first put in force, March 8th) 1888. 

Ball— The first ball on record given in Canada was by Chartier de Lolbini^re, 
Lieutenant du Roi, Civil et Criminal, au si6ge de Quebec, February 4th, 
1667. (lournal of the Jesuits.) ** God grant it lead to no result)^' wrote 
the Jesuit, who feared balls as a device of ** the enemy.'* 



i^IRST f HIKGS iJ4 CANAbA. ^ 

Banks— Bank of Montreal first issued its notes October ist, i8i7.^C 
Original capital was $350,000. Its capital is now $12,000,000, and its ^ 
rest $6,ooo,ooa There are but three t^nks in the United Kingdom, and 
two on the Continent of Europe, which surpass the Bank of Montreal in 
capital. 
Bank Clearing^ House— First in the Dominion established in Halifax, 1887. 
The first exchange and settlement between banks in Montreal, under the 
Clearing House system, took place on January 7th, 1889. Hamilton's 
Banks adopted the system in 1891 ; Toronto (with one exception) in 1891 ; 
Winnipeg in 1893, and St. John, N.B., in 1896. From the 2Sth Nov., 
1895, ^^ ^^^ Banks of Toronto have been in the system. 

The total clearances in all the cities amounted in 1896 to $964,850,804. 
Montreal's Bank clearances for 1889 amounted to $454,560,667, and for 
1896 to $527,851,000. Montreal ranks tenth among the large cities of 
the United States and Canada in the amount of the Bank clearings, and 
Toronto stands fourteenth. 
Bank Note— The first Canadian Bank Note issued was by the Canada Bank 

in 1792 ; it was for "5 chelins." ^" 

Bank Notdl — First constituted a first lien on Bank Assets by the Banking 

Act of 1880, put into force July ist, 1881. 
Bank Note Ens^raTins^—First done in Canada in 1867. 
Bank President— The first Bank President in Canada was John Gray, first 
President of the Bank of Montreal. He was a retired North- West trader. 
Bankers' Association, Canadian —First decided on in Ottawa, Feby. 12th, 
1890. First meeting to organize held in Montreal, 17th Dec. 1891. 
Objects: (i) to carelully watch proposed legislation and decisions of the 
courts in matters relating to banking ; (2) to take advisable action in pro- 
tecting the interests of the contributories to the Bank Circulation and Re- 
demption Fund, and all othei matters affecting the interests of the 
Chartered Banks; (3) to arrange courses of lectures on commercial law and 
banking, and to promote discussion on banking questions by means of 
competitive papers and examinations. Annual meetings have been held 
in Montreal, Toronto, Halifax, Quebec and Ottawa. The Association 
publishes a quarterly journal. The first president was George Hague and 
the first secretary-treasurer W. W. L. Chipman. 
Bank Cashiers— The first Bank Cashier in Canada was Robert Griffin, cash- 
ier of the Bank of Montreal, 181 7. The secgnd was Noah Freer, cashier 
of the Bank of Quebec, 18 18. 
Bank Statistics — First required to be sent to Government when Sir Francis 
Uincks was premier. 

Prior to that date it is somewhat difficult to obtain an accurate statement. 
In 1837, when tlie Queen began to reign, there were three chartered 
and four private banks in the Province of Canada, and six chartered and 
one private bank in the Maritime Provinces. The statistical position of 
the Banks of Canada for 1837 and 1897 is :— 

30th June, 30th June, 

1837. 1897. 

Note circulation $2,558,204 $ 32,366,174 

Specie. 601,332 8,663,460 

Deposits 1,378,528 201,141,788 

, Loans and Discounts* 7,019,876 210,853,328 

Capita l 4."8,776 6i,948,536t 

♦Call and Current. 

tRcserve fund (in addition) $3;,o7o.8oo. 



10 I'^IRST tHlK(iS tN CANAbA. 

Banking, Annals of, in Canada— In 1817 the first bank was established, the 
Bank of Montreal at Montreal, followed the next year by the Bank of 
Quebec at Quebec, and the Bank of Canada at Montreal. These banks 
were not granted a charter till 1822, when the Royal Assent was given to 
the Bills, proclamation to that effect being made, for the Bank of Mont- 
real, July 22nd, and for the Bank of Quebec, 30th Nov. The first charter 
is not remarkably different from those of the present day. The three 
special functions of banking were performed from the first establishment, 
VIZ : receiving deposits, issuing notes, and discounting bills. There was 
one peculiar clause in the Bank of Montreal's original charter. It was 
that officers of the Bank guilty of secreting, embezzling or running away 
with bill, bond, obligation, money or effects, should, on conviction, be 
deemed guilty of felony, the penalty attached being ** death as a felon 
without benefit of clergy." Between 1821 and 1831, many banks were 
established. Among them was the Bank of British North America, 
organized by English and Scotch merchants and incorporated by Royal 
Charter. In 1830 the Banking; Act was amended so that the total amount 
of notes of less sum than $5 in circulation at one time should not exceed 
one-fifth of the paid up capital ; no notes under the value of $1 should be 
issued, and all issues of less than $5 might be suppressed by an Act of the 
Legislature. About 1835 the Government provided for the establishment 
of private, or, as they were called, licensed banks. These were authorized 
to issue notes upon depositing with the Government provincial debentures 
to the amount of the contemplated issue. A bank fever seized the Province 
in 1836, and in 1837 applications were made for licenses to nine banks in 
Upper Canada. On May i8th, 1837, the Lower Canadian Banks suspended 
specie payment owing to the demand for specie in the United States, in 
which country the Banks had generally suspended on the 12th May. The 
suspension of the Lower Canadian Banks continued till 23rd June, 1838. 
A second insurrection in Nov., 1838, compelled them to suspend a second 
time, an ordinance of the Special Council, issued Nov. 5th, giving them 
authority. The Banks of Lower Canada resumed specie payment on 1st 
June, 1839. 

The Legislature of Upper Canada met in extraordinary session on June 
19th, 1837, to devise measures by authority of which the Upper Canadian 
Banks might suspend specie payment, the law in their case making repudi- 
ation of their notes result in suspension of charter. Sir Francis Bond 
Head, the then Lieut. -Governor, opposed the motion, but the Bill became 
law iiih July, 1837, and one or two Banks availed themselves of its pro- 
visions. The Bank of Canada, then the Government Bank, desired to 
suspend, but Sir Francis opposed and summarily closed the discussion by 
exclaiming, ** Sir, the principle of monarchy is honour ; the Bank of 
Upper Canada is the Government Bank : to maintain its honor the Bank 
must redeem in specie.^' The Bank continued to redeem till Sth March, 

1838, when it was compelled to suspend, resuming payment on ist Nov., 

1839. This is the first and only time the Banks of the Province of 
Canada suspended payment. With two exceptions all the banks, prior to 
1841, had the limited liability clause. In 1841, in the first Session of 
Parliament after the Union, the Committee on Banking reported 13 reso> 
lutions on which to found a uniform system of Banking. The double 
liability clause was then introduced. The Banking Act of 1841 imposed 
a tax of I per cent, upon the Bank circulation. In 1850 a new Act was 
passed prohibiting any Banks other than those incorporated by Act of 
Parliament or by Royal Charter from issuing notes. The tax on bank cir- 
culation was abolisbedt and instead a deposit with the Government of 



tJ'iRST Things m CxNAbA. it 

Provincial debentures to the extent of $100,000 was requiired. According 
to a plan fixed by the Legislature, Bank Statistics to be monthly forwarded 
to the Government were required in that year. 

The first Bank established in Nova Scotia was a private Bank of issue^ ^^^ 
discount and deposit, started in Halifax, 3rd Sept., iS2$, and called the >* 
Halifax Banking Company, but known more generally as " Collins' Bank." ^ 
The Bank of Nova Scotia was incorporated March 30th, 1832. The Bank 
of British North America began business in Nova Scotia in 1837. The 
early charters of the Bank of Nova Scotia were renewed very frequently, 
no less than five times between 184 1 and 1846. In 1847 the charter was 
given a life of ten years. In 1856 the Union Bank of Halifax was char- 
tered, and in 1859 the Bank of Yarmouth. Down to 1873 ^^ Bank had 
ever failed in Nova Scotia. At the time of Confederation (1867) there 
were five Banks in the Province operating under local charters. 

The first Bank in New Brunswick was the Bank of New Brunswick, 
chartered by Act, 25th March, 1820. The Charlotte County Bank was 
incorporated in 1825 ; the Central Bank and the Commercial Bank in 
1834, and the St. Stephen's Bank in 1836. When New Brunswick entered 
the Confederation, the Bank of New Brunswick, the Commercial Bank, 
the St. Stephen's Bank and the People's Bank were in operation. 

In the Baiikmg Act of 187 1 (the first general Banking Act passed by the 
Federal Parliament) it was provided that Banks should not issue notes of a 
less denomination than $4, and that they should hold, as far as practicable, 
one-half their cash reserves in Dominion notes, and never less than one- 
third. Business could not be engaged in until $500,000 of stock had been 
subscribed, and $100,000 paid up in cash, and a certificate to that effect 
procured from the Government Treasury Board. The amount of notes in 
circulation was not to exceed the amount of the unimpaired capital. No 
dividend was to be made that impaired paid up capital, and no division of 
profits greater than 8 per cent, per annum coula be paid, unless, after 
paying the same, the bank had a reserved fund ec^ual to one-fifth of its 
paid up capital. In the Act of J 881 it was provided that banks should 
not issue notes of less than $5, and that all notes less than $5 then out- 
standing should be called in and cancelled as soon as practicable. It was 
also provided that the notes of the banks should be a first lien upon the 
assets. The minimum of reserves to be held in Dominion notes was 40 
per cent. The unauthorized use of the title of ** Bank," *' Banking Com- 
pany," etc., without the addition of ''not incorporated," was made a 
misdemeanor. The exchange of warehouse receipt for bill of lading, and 
vice versa, was permitted, in order to facilitate the marketing of the goods. 
The revision of 1890 resulted in changes in the law intended to operate to 
the advantage of the public in two directions, {a) by securing to note-holders 
at all times and in all parts of the Dominion the face value of all notes of 
all banks of Canada, whether solvent or insolvent, and {d) by securing 
solidity in our banking institutions by compelling intending bank charterers 
to have, before they can obtain a charter, a capital of at least $250,000 
paid up and deposited with the Government. 

The number of chartered Banks in Canada is 37. Of these 10 have 
headquarters in Ontario, 13 in Quebec, 8 in Nova Scotia, 3 in New Bruns- 
wick, 2 in P. £. Island, and i in British Columbia. In 1896 these 37 
Banks had 512 branches, of which 280 were in Ontario, 85 in Quebec, 65 
in Nova Scotia, 30 in New Brunswick, 21 in Manitoba, 9 in the North- 
west Territories, 6 in Prince Edward Island, and 10 in British Columbia. 

The development of banking business in Canada is seen from the follow* 
ing statement:^ 



a 



t^iRST tniNGS In CAKAbA. 



Capital Paid up 

per head 
of Population. 



1871 
1881 
1891 



$10.40 
13.70 
12.60 



Circulation 
l£ad. 



$5.30 
6.00 
6.50 



People's 

Deposits' per 

Head. 



$16.00 
20.00 
31.10 



People's 

Disccunts per 

Head. 



$24.60 

33.33K 
35.50 



(See ** Charters of Banks," ** Notes of Banks," ** Redemption of Notes," 
" Suspensions of Banks," also ** Currency.") 
Banking: in Manitoba:— 

Merchants Bank of Canada opened in Winnipeg, Nov., 



Bank of Montreal 

Imperial Bank 

Union Bank of Canada 

Bank of Ottawa 

Bank of British N. America 

Molson's Bank 

Banque d'Hochelaga 

Canadian Bank of Commerce 

Bank of Hamilton 



Aug. 
June, 
Feb., 
June, 
Jan., 
Jan., 
Mar., 
May, 

July, 



1873. 
1878. 
1881. 
1882. 
1882. 
1887. 
1891. 
1891. 
1893. 
1896. 



Banks, Early efforts to secure.— The 6rst public notice respecting Banks 
in Canada is in the Quebec Gazette of Aug. 9th, 1792, in which is pub- 
lished a notice dated in London, May 17th, 1792. The notice states that 
Messrs. Phyn, EUice & Inglis, of London, £ng., and Messrs. Todd, 
McGill & Co., and Forsyth, Richardson k Co., of Montreal, "having 
experienced great inconvenience in Canada from the deficiency of specie or 
some other media to represent the increasing circulation of the country, as 
well as from the variety of the money now current, have formed the reso- 
lution of establishing a bank at Montreal under the name of the * Canada 
Banking Co.' " The bank was intended to be a private one. It appears 
to have issued notes, but seems to have taken no noteworthy position l>e- 
fore the public. In 1807 an advertisement in the Quebec Gazette called 
the inhabitants to attend a meeting for the establishment of a bank. This 
resulted in a petition to the Legislature of Lower Canada, asking for a 
bank for Montreal and for Quebec city. No action having been taken by 
the Legislature, those interested prepared another petition and sent it to 
the Legislature during the following session (1808). These petitioners 
sought the incorporation of a bank to be called the ** Bank of Canada." 
The petitions were reported on favourably, but no act of incorporation was 
granted. In 1810 Kingston merchants took up the subject, but nothing 
practical came of a long-continued newspaper and other discussion. 

The next move was made in 181 5, when a motion was made in the 
Legislative Assembly of Lower Canada to go into committee of the whole 
to consider the expediency of establishing a bank. After discussion the 
subject was dropped. In the session of 1816 petitions were presented 
asking for a bank, with the result that the first Banking Committee was 
formed with power to send for persons and papers. This committee 
made the first report on banking in Canada on record. A number of 
persons were examined. A bill was introduced in the Assembly and every 
indication pointed to the successful launching of the first charter. But the 
Governor^General took issue with the Assembly in its resolve to impeach 



First Things in Canada. 13 

two judges, and dissolved the Assembly, and away was swept the nearly 
finished bank charter. The same fate befell another attempt made in the 
next (and new) Assembly, and from the same cause, the Le^sla^ture being 
prorogued by the new Governor before the bank charter received its finish- 
ing touches. In 18 17 the Bank of Montreal was started without a charter. 
(See "Bank Annals." 

Bankruptcy — The first legislation concerning bankruptcy in Canada is the 
ordinance passed on the 9th March, 1765, by Governor Murray and 
Council. The four provinces which constituted the Dominion were pro- 
vided with an Insolvency Act in 1869. The Act was in force for four 
years and was renewed in 1874, arrangements being made respecting the 
new provinces to tide them over. In 1875 ^^ Insolvency Act applicable to 
the whole Dominion was passed. It remained in force till it was repealed 
in 1880. Since that date there has been no general statute. 

Baptist Church— Organized in British Columbia in 1877. 

Bar Association of Canada — First meeting for formation of, held in Montreal, 
15th Sept., 1896. Hon. J. E. Rooideaux, Q.C., was chosen first President. 
The object of the Association is to bring together all the lawyers ot the 
whole Dominion for conference, etc. 

Baronets of Canada — The first Canadian created a Baronet was Sir James 
Stuart, 1840. Others were Sir Louis H. Lafontaine, 1854; Sir John 
Beverley Robinson, 1854; Sir William F. Williams, 1856; Sir^ Allan 
McNab, 1858 ; Sir Samuel Cunard, 1859 ; Sir George E. Cartier, 1868 ; 
Sir Fohn Rose, i375 » Sir George Stephen, 1886 ; Sir Charles Tupper, 
1888. The living Baronets, being Canadians, are: Sir William George 
Johnson,* 4th Baronet ; Sir Frederick A. Robinson, 3rd Baronet ; Sir 
William Rose, 2nd Bart.: Sir Charles Stuart, 2nd Bart.; Sir Charles 
Tupper, 1st Bart., and Sir Bache Cunard, 2nd Bart. The following are 
titles of higher rank than Baronet : — Lord Aylmer, 7th Baron (created 
1718); Lord Mount-Stephen, ist Baron (1891); Baroness Macdonald, 1st 
Baroness (1891); Lord Mount Royal, 1st Baron (1897). Charles Colmor \ 
Grant, 7th Baron de Longueuil, holds the only Canadian hereditary titU 
in existence. The patent of nobility was signed by Louis XIV. It passes 
to male and female descendants, and was first officially recognized by the 
British Government on December 4th, 1880. 

Beaver — This animal first appears as an emblem of Canada on the Coat of ^^ 
Arms granted by Charles I. of England to Sir William Alexander. Sir 
James Balfour, ** Lyon King of Arms," was, in a royal letter dated New- 
market, 1632, instructed to ** marshall his coate of armour." Accordingly 
**the Lyon King of Arms " provided the required coat of arms to " Alex- 
ander, Viscount of Stirline, Lord Alexander of Cannada," etc. The 
** Inscutcheon with the armes of Nova Scotia "...** For his creist, on a 
wreath arg. sable, & dever proper," In the drawing the beaver appears 
resting on his hind legs and his broad, flat tail, just as natural as he has 
ever appeared in any of the numerous representations of him, as the 
emblem of Canada, that have since been so generally distributed to indi- 
cate our intelligence, our daring, our industry and our perseverance as a 
people. 



* Sir John Johnson, the and Baronet, was the son of Sir William Johnson, Bt., famous 
in the struggle with the revolting Colonies of North America. Sir John was an United 
Empire Loyalist, and on coming to Canada settled in Argenteuil^ of which he was the 
Seigneur. It is said of him that at the age of 90 he vaulted over a six-bar fence, placing his 
hands on the top and going " clean over." Coming down, his knees failed him and he sank 
to the ground. He rose and moved off exclaiming : " By ! I believe I am getting old ! " 



r 



14 First Things in Canada. 

Belgium Trade relations— (See Treaties). 

Belt — British Columbia, in 1870, conveyed to the Federal Government a belt 
of land 40 miles wide, from the eastern boundary of the Province to the 
Straits of Georgia, as a contribution towards the cost of construction of the 
Canadian Pacinc Railway. A suit to determine the ownership of the 
minerals in the 40 mile belt was decided in April, 1889, by the Privy 
Council of England in favour of the Province of British Columbia and 
against the Federal Government. The Province uf British Columbia con- 
veyed $}4 million acres of land, east of the Rockies in the Peace River 
District, to the Dominion Government, December 19th, 1883, the reason 
for so doing being to make good any deficiency in the 40 mile belt caused 
by grants of land to individuals prior to the transfer of the belt by the 
Provincial to the Dominion Government. 

Bill— The first Bill introduced in the first session of the first House of Repre- 
sentatives in Canada, was a Bill to establish the authority of the House, 
introduced in the Nova Scotian Assembly, October 2, 1758. 

Bishop— The first Roman Catholic Bishop of Canada was M. de Laval, who 
arrived in 1659 as titular Bishop ot Petrea and Vicar Apostolic of New 
France. He was created Bishop of New France, 1674. The first Angli- 
can Bishop in Canada was Rev. Dr. Charles Inglis, Bishop of Nova 
"" -^ Scotia, 1787. The first Anglican Bishop in Lower Canada was Rev. Or. 
Mountain, 1793. (See ** Church Annals.") 

Bishop, Canadiaii bom — The first Canadian born bishop of the Roman 
Oitholic Church was Louis P. d'Esglis. He was the seventh from Bishop 
Laval and was made Bishop in 1784. 

Bishops — Canadian Bi<ihops have been of *' exceeding good stuff." The first 

^ Bishop of the Anglican Church in Canada, Bishop Inglis, is described as 

** the fearless rector of Trinity Church, New York, who did not hesitate 

to continue his prayers for King George and the Royal Family even when 

General Washington and his soldiers attended his church. " 

Of the first Bishop of the Roman Catholic Church in Ontario, Bishop 
Macdonell, it is related that at the taking of the United States town of 
Ogdensburg, 13th February, 181 3, the chaplain (afterwards Bishop Mac- 
donell) with his cross in his hand marched on one flank of the British 
force (composed of the Glengarry Light Infantry Regiment and the Glen- 
garry Militia), while Rev. Mr. Mackenzie (Presbyterian), holding up his 
Bible, marched on the other flank, both ministers urging on their adherents. 
One of the chaplain's flock felt somewhat nervous under fire and showed a 
disposition to fall to the rear. Whereupon the chaplain ordered him to 
stand fast, but his orders were disobeyed. An example becoming necessary, 
the chaplain then and there excommunicated the man with a hankering 
for the rear from the church of his forebears. There was no more shirk- 
ing the fight ; ** Yankee fire " was a slight punishment to that inflicted by 
the chaplain. 

Bisley — The change from Wimbledon to Bisley was made in 1890. The 
Canadian team of 1897 was the first to have permanent quarters at the 
camps of the National Rifle Association, the building having been erected 
in that year at a cost of $5,000 granted by the Canadian Government, and 
expended under supervision of Major H. F. Perley. (See ** Wimbleton. **) 

Black Pioneers— A Coloured Corps was formed by the Royalists in New York 
for service against the Rebels. They were deported in 1783 to Digby, 
Nova Scotia, and were the ancestors of the fighting Negroes now in 
Digby and Annapolis Counties. 

Boards of Trade — A plan for establishing one in Canada was prepared 9th 
May, 1777. A Committee of Trade was organized in Montreal in 1822. 



First Things in Canada. 15 

The Montreal Board of Trade was established in 1842. A general Act 
respecting the incorporation of Boards of Trade in Canada was passed in 
1874. There were 112 in active operation throughout the Dominion in 
1896. 

Book»--The first book published in Upper Canada was '* St. Ursula's Con 
vent, or the Nun of Canada," Kingston, 1824. 

Books — Among the early books on Canada are Bacqueville de la Potherie's 
'< Histoire de TAmerique Septentrionalle, depuis 1524 jusqu'a 1 701, "pub- 
lished in Paris, 1722 ; and " Premier Etablissement de la foy dans la 
Nouvelle France." (See *' Printing Press " and " Printed Book.") 

Bonding^ System — An Order in Council passed by the Canadian Government 
in 1856, provides for transit of goods by railway from United States' places 
through Canada to United States' places. In i860 an Order in Council 
provided that triplicate reports should be dispensed with. An Order in 
Council December, 1883, (based on the Customs Act of 1883) provides 
regulations resecting transport of goods through Canada. By virtue of 
the authority given in the Customs Act of 1886 regulations were prescribed 
by Order in Council of 29th July, 1888, for carriage of goods through 
C^ada. Reciprocal action with regard to goods in transit from or to 
Canada through the United States is provided for by the United States Act 
of July 28th, 1866, (U. S. Rev. Statutes sec. 3,006). This Act was sus- 
pended, so far as Canada is concerned, by the Washington Treaty of 187 1, 
till the abrogation of Article XXX of that Treaty, when the Act of 1866 
revived. 

Botanical Club of Canada was organized by a Committee of Section IV 
of the Royal Society of Canada, in Montreal, May 29th, 1891. It has a 
Secretarv for each Province of the Dominion, and it aims to promote the 
exploration of the flora of every part of Canada. 

Bons— After the transfer of Canada to Great Britain (1763) the smaller silver 
coins began gradually to disappear from circulation, owing to an underrating 
of their value, consequent upon an overrating of the larger French coins. 
The disappearance of the small coin caused great difficulty on the part of 
the mercnants to make change for the purchasers of their goods. Accord- 
ingly some of these merchants resorted to the device of issuing small paper 
due bills, good for future purchases at their stores. Any merchant could 
issue them, and their circulation depended altogether upon the popular 
estimate of the credit of the mercnant. From the &ct that they were 
chiefly in French and read ** Bon pour," &c., they were generally desig- 
nated Bons and continued to be used as fractional paper for many years in 
Upper, as well as in Lower, Canada. 

BounoEuies— Quebec was first bounded in 1763, in a proclamation by the King 
of Great Britain, dated 7th October of that year. The proclamation reads : 
** First the Government of Quebec, bounded on the Labrador Coast by 
the River St. John, and thence by a line drawn from the head of that 
river through the Lake St. John to the south end of the Lake Nipissim, 
from whence the said line, crossing the River St. Lawrence and the Lake 
Champlain in 45 degrees of north latitude, passes along the islands which 
divide the rivers that empty themselves into the said River St. Lawrence 
from those which fall into the sea ; and also along the north shore of the 
Baie des Chaleurs and the coast of the Gulf of St. Lawrence to Cape 
Rosieres, and from thence crossing the mouth of the River St. Lawrence 
by the west end of the Island of Anticosti, terminates at the aforesaid 
River St. John." By the same proclamation all the coast, from the River 
St. John to Hudson's Straits, together with the Islands of Anticosti and 
Magdaline, and all other smaller islands lying upon the said coast, were . 



^ 



i6 First Things in Canada. 

placed under the care and inspection of the Governor of Newfoundland. 
The Islands of St. John (now Prince Edward) and Cape Breton were at 
the same time annexed to Nova Scotia. Anticosti and the Magdalen 
Islands were subsequently separated from Newfoundland and placed under 
the jurisdiction of the Province of Canada. 

By Order-in-Council approved bv the Governor-General, 8th Tuly, 1896, 
the boundaries of the Province of Quebec on the north, north-west and 
north-east were established (subject to acceptance by the Province and to 
ratification by the Dominion Parliament) so as to extend the north-west 
boundary along the Ontario boundary to Hudson Bay, the northern boun- 
dary along the East Main river, and the north-easterly boundary to the 
Labrador line in the vicinity of Hamilton Inlet. This extension adds 
12,600 square miles, making the total area of the province 347,350 square 
miles. 

Boiindaries of Ontiuio In consequence of a report of the Judicial Committee 
of the English Privy Council on 22nd July, 1884, defining the boundaries 
between Ontario and Manitoba and suggesting the expediency of passing 
an Imperial Act to make the decision binding, Sir John Macdonald, in 
Session of 1889, introduced and carried a resolution for an address to Her 
Majesty to cause a measure to be introduced into the Parliament of the 
United Kingdom, declaring the westerly, northerly and easterly boundaries 
of Ontario. The Imperial Parliament, in Session of 1889, passed an Act 
in. accordance with the address to the Queen by the Canadian Parliament. 
The boundaries are defined in the Imperial Act as follows :— " Commenc- 
ing at the point where the International boundary between the United 
States of America and Canada strike the western shores of Lake Superior, 
thence westerly along the said boundary to the north-west angle of the 
Lake of the Woods ; thence along a line drawn due north until it strikes 
the middle line of the course of the river discharging the waters of the lake 
called Lac Seul, or the Lonely Lake, whether above or below its confluence 
with Ihe stream flowing from the I-Ake of the Woods towards Lake Win- 
nipeg, and thence proceeding eastward from the point at which the before 
mentioned line strikes the middle of the course of the river last aforesaid, 
along the middle line of the course of the same river (whether called by the 
name of the English River or, as to the part below the confluence, by the 
name of the River Winnipeg) up to Lac Seul, or the Lonely Lake, and 
thence along the middle line of the Lonely Lake to the head of that lake, 
and thence by a straight line to the nearest point of the middle line of the 
waters of Lake St. Joseph, and thence along that middle line until it 
reaches the foot or outlet of that lake, and thence along the middle line of 
the river by which the waters of Lake St. Joseph discharge themselves to 
the shore of the part of Hudson's Bay commonly known as James* Bay, 
and thence south-easterly following upon the said shore to a point where a 
line drawn due north from the head of Lake Temiscamingue would strike 
it, and thence due south along the said line to the head of the said lake, 
and thence through the middle channel of the said lake into the Ottawa 
River. 

Bounty given to encourage development of sea fisheries and building of 
fishing vessels. 1882. The Canadian Government received firom the 
United States Government, through the Imperial Government, the sum of 
$4,490,882 as Canada's share in the Fishery Award made in 1877 by the 
Halifax Arbitration, under the terms of the Treaty of Washington, 1871. 
The interest of this sum was appropriated for the purpose of the Bounty. 
The amount, originally $150,000, and increased by Act of 1891 to $160,- 
000, was distributed in the years given as follows :^ 



First Things in Canada. 



17 





Vessels, 
per Ton. 


Boats, 
per Boat. 


Vessel 
Fishermen, 
per Man. 


Boat 
Fishermen, 
per Man. 


1894 

189s 

1896-7 


$1.35 
1.30 
I.OO 


$1.00 
I.OO 
I.OO 


$6.55 
6.27 

S.OO 


$3.00 
3.00 
3.50 



Bounty on Beet Sugar— By Chap. 31, Acts of 1891, the Parliament of 
Canada gave a bonus of $1.00 per 100 lbs., and in addition thereto 3}^ 
cents per 100 lbs. for each degree or fraction over 70 degrees shown by the 
polariscope test, to producers in Canada of raw beet root sugar for a term 
of years ending on 30th June, 1893. In Session of 1893 ^^^ '^ct was 
extended to 30th June, 1895, producers to pay cost of Customs supervision. 
In Session of 1895 ^^^ bounty was made 75 cents per 100 lbs. and an 
additional 1 cent per 100 lbs. for each degree (or fraction) over 70 degrees, 
pK>lariscope test, such bounty in no case to exceed $1.00 per 100 lbs.; 
time extended to ist July, 1097. 

The following bounties have been paid : — 



Year ended June 30th, 



1892 
1893 
1894 
1895 
1896 



Quantity, Lbs. 



423,432 
1,546.527 
1,158,120 



Value, $ 



$23*767 

20,568 

7,766 

29,449 

",733 



Average Rate 
per U>., cts. 



1.83 Cts 
1.90 " 
I.OI " 



Bounty on Pig Iron—The Dominion Parliament in 1883 authorized the 
pajnnent of a bounty of $1.50 a ton of 2,000 lbs. upon all pig iron manu- 
factured in Canada. This bounty was continued until ist July, 1889, when 
the rate was increased to $2.00 a ton until ist July, 1897. In Session of 
1894 an Act was passed, authorizing payment of a bounty of $2.00 per ton 
on all pig iron, and on all steel billets made in Canada from Canadian ore. 
These bounties are applicable till 26th March, 1899, in the case of furnaces 
in operation on 27th March, 1894, and in cases of furnaces beginning 
operations after that date, but before 27th March, 1899, for five years from 
the date of commencement. 

The Ontario Legislature in 1894 passed an Act appropriating $125,000 
to be known as the ** Iron Mining Fund," out of which $1.00 per ton to 
the extent of $25,000 yearly is to be paid on pig metal, the product of 
iron ore raised and smelted in the Provmce of Ontario. 

The Parliament of Canada passed an Act in 1896 placing on the free 
list mining and smelting machinery imported prior to ist July, 1897, pro- 
vided such is not manufactured in the Dominion. In 1897 Parliament 
passed an Act authorizing the Governor in Council to give (i) a bounty of 
$3 per ton on steel ingots manufactured from ingredients of which not less 
than 50 per cent, of their weight consists of pig iron made in Canada ; (2) 
a bounty of $3.00 per ton on puddled iron bars made from Canadian-made 

2 



1 8 First Things in Canada. 

pig iron ; (3) a bounty on pig iron manufactured from ore, of $3.cx> per ton 
on the propottion produced from Canadian ore and $2.00 on the propor- 
tion produced from foreign ore. Bounties to cease on 23rd April, 1902. 

The production of pig iron in Canada has increased from 25,770 tons in 
1S85 to 53,948 tons in 1896, and the home-made article was, in 1896, 58 
per cent of the total consumption of pig iron, iron kentledge and cast scrap 
iron, against 37 per cent, in 1885. 

Breweries — The iirst in Canada was built in Quebec by Talon. in 1668. It is 
mentioned in the Jesuits' Relations for that year. In 1890 the capital 
invested in Breweries in Canada was over 8 million dollars, the wages paid 
amounted to 891,381 dollars, and the output of the year was valued at 
5i7i7i873 dollars. 

Bridg^e — Victoria bridge, first railway bridge across the St. Lawrence river, 
formally opened for traffic by the Prince of Wales, i860. First passenger 
train crossed December 19th, 1859. The bridge cost $6,300,000 ; length, 
9,184 feet. The first stone was laid by Robert Stephenson, the celebrated 
Engineer, J[uly 20th, 1854. 

British Association for Advancement of Science first met, in Canada, at 
Montreal, August 27, 1884. Its second meeting in Canada was in Tor- 
onto, August 1 8th, 1897. 

British Columbia admitted into the Union, July 20th, 187 1. 

British Columbia — The name Columbia was given to the Columbia river by 
Capt, Gray who, in 1798, sailed his ship, Columbia of Boston, into the 
mouth of the river. The name (British Columbia) was subsequently given 
to the colony through which the river runs for a distance of 440 miles. 
British Columbia has an area equal to the combined areas of France, Italy, 
Belgium, and Holland. 

British Columbia— Coast line was first stated in Sessional Papers No. 9, 188a 

. -On the main land the coast line is 4,784 English, statute .miles ; on Van- 

• couver Island, 1,723; oa Queen Charlotte Group, 684 miles, making a 

total of 7,191 miles, or, so the Report .says, more than double the coast 

line of Great Britain and Ireland. . . 

British Columbia— Boundary line between British Columbia and Alaska was 
first attempted to be established by an exploratory party which, under 
direction of the Canadian authorities, left B.C., in May, 1887. In 1892 a 
convention as to Boundaries between the United States and Canada was 
signed. It provided for a coincident, or joint, survey by Commissioners. 
In 1895 the Canadian Commissioner reported that the whole coast froro 
Behm's Canal to Cape Fairweather had been covered by a connected 
photo-topc^raphical survey. 

British North American Provinces— Movements affecting the relations of, 
with the United States of America : 

1. Secession of the 13 Colonies from the British Empire I775 

2. Imperial Order-in- Council restricting trade between the United States 
and the British Colonies . 1 78; 

3. Establishment of countervailing and discriminating duties by Imperial 
statute 1 797-9J 

4. Embargo law passed by United States Congress i8(^ 

5. Governors of all the British North American Provinces authorized 

to open their ports to United States vessels i8d 

6. Convention of 1815, of which Mr. Cushing says : ** It deserves to be 
mentioned that the Convention of 1815 was the first notable departure 
by Great Britain from the exclusiveness of her navigation laws." 181 

7. Convention of 181 8, by which the fishery privileges of the United 
States in British North American waters are defined i8i 

8. Imperial Order-in-Council declaring Colonial ports closed to United 
States vessels igj 



First Things in Canada. 19 

9. United States President's Proclamation declaring trade between the 
United States and the British North American Provinces suspended . 1828 

10. Arrangement of 1830 by which United States ports are opened to 
British North American vessels in return for the British West Indian 
ports opened to United States vessels 1830 

11. Discriminating Customs duties abolished in the British North Ameri- 
can Provinces by Lord Stanley's despatch 1843 

12. Drawback law put into force 1846 

1 3. Corn laws'repealed in England 1846 

14. British North American Provinces obtain power to enact their own 
tariffs (subject only to the control of the Queen-in-Council) by the 
British Possessions Act 1846 

15. Canadian Legislature acted upon the authority thus secured and 
reduced duties on American manufactures from 12}4 to 7)4 per cent., 
and increased those on British manufactures from 5 to 7>^ 1847 

16. Canadian Legislature passed an Act granting to natural products of 
the United States entry free of Customs duty on the United States 
reciprocating 1847 

1 7. United States restrict Colonial vessels* privilege of discharging cargo 

in United States at port of delivery, to port of entry only 1849 

18. United States Navigation Law of 1817, and British Navigation Law 

of 1849, come into operation simultaneously, T&nuary 1850 

19. Treaty of Reciprocity came into force 1854 

20. Treaty of 18^4 abrogated by the United States to force the British 
North American Provinces into the American Union 1866 

21. Confederation of the British North American Provinces by which ftee 
trade is established among them and a larger share of autonomy 
secured 1867 

22. Canadian Customs Act of 1868 provided for free entry of United States' 
natural products on condition of the United States reciprocating. .... 1868 

23. Washington Treaty of 187 1 came into force, July 1873 

24. Hon. George Brown went to Washington and, in conjunction with 
the British Minister there, and with Mr. Fish on the part of the United 
States, prepared a Treaty which received the support of the President, 
but was strangled in secret Session of the United States Senate. The 
draft Treaty admitted certain United States manufactures into Canada, 
but it did not discriminate against British manufactures, which were 
also to be admitted into Canada free to the same extent as United 
States manufactures 1874 

25. National Policy adopted by the Canadian Confederation 1879 

26. Abrogation by the United States of the Fisheries Ckuses of the 
Treaty of 1871, thus ending free trade in fish by treaty arrangement. 1885 

27. Hon. Sir L. S. Sackville-West, Hon. Sir Charles Tupper and Rt.- 
Hon. Joseph Chamberlain visited Washin^on as Commissioners ap- 
appointed by the Queen to negotiate a Treaty of Commerce, etc., 
between the United States and Canada. A Treaty was negotiated 
and its provisions embodied in chap. 30, Canadian Acts of 1888, but 

it failed of ratification by the Senate of the United States 1887-8 

29. Bond-Blaine Convention — Under this Convention it was proposed 
to give: (i) United States fishing vessels entering the waters of 
Newfoundland {a) the privilege of purchasing bait-fish at all times 
on same terms and conditions and subject to same penalties as New- 
foundland vessels ; {d) privilege of touching and trading, selling oil 
and fish and procuring supplies ; {c) special tariff rates for goods im- 
ported from the United States into the island (see Sessional Papers 
1892, No. 23, c. page 58.) (2) Newfoundland, entrance free of duty 



20 First Things in Canada. 

into the United States for all products of her fisheries, excepting 
*' green cod^." The arrangement fell through on account of oppo- 
sion from Canada 1890 

In addition to the above are the following treaties : — 
The Treaty of Paris by which the general boundary line from the 
north-west angle of the Lake of the Woods easterly to the Atlantic 

ocean was defined 1783 

The Jay Treaty, by which the boundary line from the Lake of the 

Woods westerly was fixed at the 49th pari^el 1794 

The Treaty of Ghent, by which each country agreed to restore all 
territories and possessions taken from either party by the other during 

the war 1814 

The Treaty of 1842, commonly called the Ash burton Treaty, by 
which the boundary line between Maine and the B. N. A. Provinces 

was determined 1842 

The Oregon Treaty, by which the boundaries between British 

Columbia and the United States were settled 1846 

Purchase of Alaska from Russia by the United States, by reason of 
which the latter country appears to claim exclusive jurisdiction of 

Behring Sea as far West as the Russian line 1867 

The Treaty of 1 87 1, by which the San Juan Island question was 

disposed of. 1871 

Convention as to Boundaries of Alaska and British Columbia and 

New Brunswick and the State of Maine in Passamaquoddy Bay 1892 

Behring Sea Treaty 1892 

Convention for reference to arbitration under Behring's Sea Treaty, 

February 8th 1896 

Appointment' of arbitrators — Judge Putnam of the United Slates 
and Mr. Justice King of the Supreme Court of Canada, appointed 

arbitrators, July .... 1896 

Budsfet Speeches — The first Dominion Budget Speech was made by Hon. ; 

John Rose, 28th April, 1868. Succeeding Budget Speeches were 
made : — I 

Hon. John Rose 7th May, 1869 

Hon. Sir F. Hincks 7th April, 1870 

** . 3rd Mar., 1871 I 

" 30th April. 1872 I 

Hon. S. L. Tilley , 1st April, 1873 

Hon. R. J. Cartwright 14th ** 1874* 

i6thFeby., 1875 i 

2Sth " 1876 ' 

20th " 1877 

22nd *• 1878 i 

Hon. S. L. Tilley 14th Mar.,* 1879 

Hon. Sir Leonard Tilley 9th " 1880 

iSthFeby., 1881 

24th *• 1882 

30th Mar., 1883 

29th Feby., 1884 

3rdMar., 1885 

Hon. A. W. McLelan 30th " 1886 

Hon. Sir Charles Tupper 12th May,t 1887 

27th April, 1888 

Hon. George K. Foster 3rd Mar. , 1889 

27th ** t 1890 



t^iRST Things in Canada. it 

Hon. George E. Foster 23rd June, 1891 

«* " " 22nd Mar., 1892 

" " " 14th Feby., 1893 

" " " 27th Mar., 1 1894 

3>'d May, 1895 

" 31st Jany., 1896 

Hon. William Fielding 22nd Aprij, 1897 

Building and Loan Societies— First in Canada, the Lambton Loan and 
Investment Co., 1844. First established by law, 1846. First in Nova 
Scotia, 1850 ; first in Quebec, 1858. 

The capital employed in 1867 amounted to $2,110,404, and in 1895 ^^ 
$40,504,504. The current loans on real estate amounted, in 1867, to 
$2,831,074, and in 1895 to $115,901,568. The deposits in 1867 were 
$577f2?9 ; in 1895 they were $I9>945»944- There was no reserve fund in 
1867 ; in 1895 there was a reserve fund of $11,131,306. Of existing (1896) 
institutions, numbering 96, Ontario has 85 ; Quebec 7 ; Nova ^Scotia 3, 
and Manitoba i. Of these, 8 were established before i860; 8 between 
i86oand 1869 ; 3 between 1870 and 1879, and 14 between 1880 and 1889. 
Butterine— First prohibition of manufacture and sale of, in Canada, 1886. 
Bureau of Industries for Ontario— First created by Act of Provincial 
Legislature, 1882. The first report was for 1882. Respecting the farming 
industry, the Report gives for 1882 as the value of Ontario farms, $632,- 
342,500 ; of farm buildings, $132,71 1,575 ; of farm implements, $37,029,- 
815 ; and of farm stock, $80,540,720, making a total value of $882,624,610. 
In 1895 the total value was given at $93i»9^»574f divided into farm lands 
$572,938,472; buildings, $204,148,670; implements, $50,944,385; live 
stock, $103,958,047. The average value of— 

Farm lands per acte in 1883 was $30.56; in 1895, $24.79 
Buildings " 1883 " 7.61 ; " 1895, 8.83 

Implements ** 1883 " 2.03; »* 1895, 2.20 

Uve stock " 1883 *• 4.67;** 1895, 4.50 

The average value of all per acre was, in 1883, $44.87, and in 1895 it 
was $40.32 per acre, a decrease of $4.55. Land decreased in value $5.77 
and live stock 17 cents per acre. Implements increased 17 cents and 
buildings $ i . 22 per acre'. 
Bureau of Mines, Ontario— Created by Act of Legislature, March 4th, 1891. 
It was the outcome of the work of a Commission appointed in 1888 to 
enquire into the financial resources of the Province. In 1890 the Com- 
mission published an elaborate report of the mineral wealth of Ontario. 
The Bureau published its first report for 1891. Mr. A. Blue was appointed 
first Director. 

Cable — The first submarine cable laid in Canada (and in North America) was 
that between New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island. It was laid in 
1 85 1 and is ten miles long. The second cable laid in North America was 
also in Canada — between Cape Breton and Newfoundland in 1856; length, 
85 miles. This cable was projected by F. N. Gisborne, who conceived 
the idea of connecting Newfoundland with Ireland while carrying out his 
idea of connecting Newfoundland with Nova Scotia. 

Cable Communication with Bermuda— Officials at Halifax received a cable 
message from Bermuda, 1st July, 1890, stating that the steamer IVestmeatk 
had successfully laid the cable and that connection with the shore end of 
the Island fortress would be made next day, which was accordingly done. 

Cable Communication in Canada — The Government of Canada in 1880 
entered upon a system of cable communication designed to connect the 

* Tariff rosolutions, March z8tb. t And Tariff resolutions. 



-t 



il First Things m Canada. 

fishing islands of the Gulf of St. Lawrence and the Bay of Fundy with the 
mainland for the purpose of giving speedy information about the weather, 
the strikes of fish and the arrival of steamers, etc. Since that date the 
Government have established 21 cables with a total length of 207 nautical 
miles. In addition they have laid down and transferred by sale or lease 
65 >i miles of cable— making in all 273 miles of cable in Canada, including 
a telephone cable laid (in 1897) across the inlet between Moody ville and 
Vancouver, which is about a mile in length. 

Cabot— A tablet affixed in June, 1897, to the Legislative Building in Halifax, 
gives the information : '* The two Cabots discovered the north-east coast 
of this continent." The particular locaUty to which belon|;s the honour of 
being the landfall of the Cabots in 1495 ^^^ H9lt ^ ^ subject of dispute. 
Wisely, therefore, the promoters of the Cabot celebration of 1897 entered 
into no fuller particulars. The Cabots are entitled to the glory of having 
given the first information to Europe of the existence of a vast continent 
far to the northward of the islands discovered by Columbus in 1492. 
Wisely, also, the promoters of the Cabot celebration limited their state- 
ment to the north-east shores of this continent. It took more than one 
man to discover Canada. That is a glory to be portioned among many ; 
not to be given to any one in particular. The Cabots discovered the 
Labrador, the Newfoundland and the Cape Breton coasts. Fishermen 
and fur traders opened up the Gulf of St. Lawrence to the extreme point 
of (rasp^ ; Cartier explored the River St. Lawrence as far as Montreal, 
having seen the moutns of the Saguenay, the St. Maurice and the Ottawa ; 
Champlain ascended the Ottawa and discovered Lake Nipissing, Lake 
Simcoe, Georgian Bay and Lake Ontario. Verendrye traversed the vast 
regions west of Lake Superior. Capts. Cook and Vancouver discovered 
the north-west coast of Canada in British Columbia, and Alexander 
Mackenzie's double laurels are that he first reached the Arctic ocean by 
way of the river that bears his name, and first reached the Pacific Ocean 
overland through British North America. Sebastian Cabot discovered 
Hudson Bay and the Jesuit Albanel, James Bay ; while all along the 
Arctic sea coast are place-names which are the tablets telling of the dis- 
coverers of the vast regions within the Arctic Circle which the ** Lady of 
the Snows " has selected as her throne-room. 

Canada — Name as applied to this country, first appears in ** Bref recit de la 
navigation faite en rSS5'3^ P^^ Capt, Jacqttes Cartier" Five derivations 
have been suggested, (i) from the Algonquin word Canaiats, meaning 
** welcome," supposed to be the greeting the Indians gave Cartier ; (2) 
from the Iroquois word Canatha, meaning **a collection of huts," and 
being the word the Indians applied to their chief town ; (3) from a Span- 
\ish word Acanada^ meaning ** there is nothing there," and indicating that 
* the Spaniards considered the country of little value as they saw no signs 
of gold along the coasts and shores of the gulf and river ; (4) from a 
Basque word meaning "canal," and (5) from a Portug^uese word meaning 
a "narrow, constricted passage." 
The 4th and 5th seem to have the greatest weight. 
The Basques, the Portuguese and the Spaniards call a narrow passage 
between two wider spaces ** Canada." The aboriginal Indians called the 
narrow passage between two wider bodies of water, at the foot of Cape 
Diamond, ** Quebec." It is probable, therefore, that Quebec and Canada 
are respectively Indian and Basque for the same thing — the distinctive 
feature of the St, Lawrence river between Quebec city and the Levis side; 
the Indian name bein^ applied to the city, and the mariners' name to ( i ) 
New France, then (2) m the run of years to Upper and Lower Canada, 
and then (3) by Act of Imperial Parliament, 1867, to the whole of British 
North Americ&k 



^RST YhINGS tN CANAbA. 



cr 

i 

< 






s 



rt 

^ 



iJ^ 



a 









% 



00 o5 o O O 

M |«| M fit 



i 






I 
i 



O 8 6 f5>g\mo 
eT N tCoo nT 1^ ro 

^ ^OOOOO 



o 

VO 






^ § 






43 



VO 



-^ 



8 8 



VO 



•s 

e 



-2 
O 



1 

I 



I 



3-2 
S.2 

HI C 



6l, „• • .i« "■ 




<J fl O 3 ♦- 

»5 < 



M 



§i 



II 



a 



c 



i 

IS 

6 



•I'S 



M o 






£: 



o 


M 


tc 


t^ 


00 


00 










M 


J3 




<^ 


irt 


O 




r4 


>s 


^ 






9 


3 



. vO 

(^ 00^ «• 
00 ^*^ 

:- H. 

CA M f^ 

2. .^s 



<2> 






J2 



.^1 

: 3 o « s «2 



"< 




o 
H 



1 



±4 J^iRSt tklt^GS In Canada. 

Canadian Chess Association— Organized at a meeting held in the city of 
Hamilton on the 24th September, 1872, with Mr. Wm. Taylor, President 
of the Hamilton Chess Association, in the chair, and Dr. Kyall acting as 
chairman. The first president, elected at the meeting, was Prof. Cherry- 
man. The objects of the Association were the encouragement of Chess 
Playing, the framing of rules to guide clubs and more particularly to govern 
Telegraphic matches, and the holding of chess tournaments. Annual 
meetings have been held in Quebec, Montreal, Toronto, Ottawa and 
Hamilton. 

Canadian Electrical Association— On the 17th September, 1 891, 21 persons 
met in Toronto and appointed a Committee to arrange a basis of organiza- 
tion. On the 2 1 St September, the Committee reported and it was 
agreed to organize under the name of the Canadian Electric Association. 
The first conventibn was held in Hamilton, June 14th, 1892, the Associa- 
tion then numbering 100 members. The object of the Association is to 
conserve the interests of the Industry both from a commercial and a 
scientific standpoint. Conventions have been held in Hamilton, Toronto, 
Montreal and Ottawa. 

Canadian Government Railways— Hon. Joseph Howe, in 1850, pressed upon 
the Home Authorities the necessity of providing a railway from Halifax 
to Quebec. On September 14th, 1853, the first sod was turned of the 
Railway from St. John to Moncton. On the 13th June, 1854, the first sod of 
the Intercolonial proper was turned near HaUfax. ist section was opened 
tor traffic, February, 1855; 2nd section of 94 miles completed from HaU- 
fax to Truro and Windsor, December, 1858. Government of New Bruns- 
wick completed line from Shediac to St. John, i860. 

The Government of the Province of Canada in February, 1863, by Order 
in Council proposed a survey to be carried on by three engineers, one of 
them to be appointed by the Imperial Government, one by Canada, and 
one by the Maritime Provinces. The Canadian Government appointed 
Mr. (now Sir) Sandford Fleming. The Maritime Provinces also nomin- 
ated Mr. Fleming: The Imperial Government followed suit and also 
selected Mr. Fleming, who accordingly on 5th March, 1864, b^an work 
at Riviere du Loup. 

Confederation tpok place on July 1st, 1867, and the whole work came 
under the direction of the Public Works Department at Ottawa. The 
following gives a brief history of important events connected with the 
Government Railway system : 

1867. Minister of Public Works instructs Mr. S. Fleming, Engineer in Chief, 
to proceed at once with surveys, July, 1867. 

1868. Battle of the routes through New Brunswick fought. Commissioners 
appointed to manage construction : A. Walsh, Hon. E. B. Chandler and 
Hon. A. W. McLelan, Commissioners. 

1 870- 1 87 1. Battle of iron versus wooden bridges waged. Windsor Branch, 
32 miles, transferred to Windsor and Annapolis Railway for operating 
purposes. 

1 87 1. Prince Edward Island Railway begun« 

1872. Railways in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia reconstructed and called 
Intercolonial Railway by Order in Council 9th November, 1872. 

1873. Prince Edward Island Railway became the property of the Dominion 
Government under the Imperial Order in Council making Prince Edward 
Island a member of the Canadian Confederacy. 

1874. Canadiain Government railways transferred to the Public Works Depart* 
ment by Act of 1874. 

1875. Prince Edward Island Railway completed in May. Change of gauge 
between Halifax and St. John, i8th June. 



PiRST f KINGS IN CaNADA. ij 

1876. Whole line of Intercolonial opened ist July. S''- 

1879. Purchase of Riviere du Loup line, 126 miles, from Grand Trunk Railway, 

for $1,500,000, 1st August. 

Department of Railways and Canals, organized with ministerial head, ,.L^ 

20th May, 1879. ' 

1884. Eastern Extension (80 miles) purchased from the Government of Nova ^'^ 
Scotia, 9th January. Cost on 30th June, 1884, of line and equipment^ i 
$1,284,311. 

1885. Cape Traverse Branch (13 miles) completed. St. Charles Loop Line (14 ' 
miles) completed. Dalhousie Branch (7 miles) completed. ' 

1886. Riviere du Loup (town) branch (4 miles) completed. Dartmouth (town) - 
branch (4 miles) completed. 

1887. Carleton Branch incorporated with Intercolonial Railway by Order in ^ 
Council, 8th October. 

Pictou (town) branch (14 miles) completed. -- 1 

1888. Cars lighted with electricity and heated by steam. ^^ 

1890. Oxford Branch opened for traffic. ^ ' 

Accounts for mamtenatice and operation of Eastern Extension merged 7 * 
in similar accounts of the Intercolonial Railway, ist July, 1890. 

1 89 1. By Act 54 Vic, chap. 50, the following works were, together with 
Eastern Extension, embodied with the Intercolonial system : Oxford 
Junction (72^ miles), opened on 15th July, 1890 ; Cape Breton Railway, ^^ 
52>i miles of which were opened on 24th November, 1890, and 46 miles ' 
on 1st January, 1891. 

1892. Carleton Branch transferred to City of St. John for $40,000, on 3rd Sep- 
tember, 1892, and leased to the Canadian Pacific Railway for 999 years. / 
The deed was confirmed by Act of 1893, chap. 6. 

1897. Intercolonial Railway train began ist January to run daily over the Baie 
des Chaleurs Railway, but ceas^ after a few months' trial. 

1897. Arrangements made with the Drumniond County Railway Company and 
the Grand Trunk to extend the Intercolonial into Montreal, the Govern- 
ment holding it to be an axiom of true railway management that the largest 
possible terminals should be secured for a trunk line like the Intercolonial 
even at the expense of extra distance. These arrangements were ratified 
by the House. But the Senate threw out the Bill. The Government 
then placed in the Supply Bill a sum sufficient to test by a tentative experi- 
ment the value of the proposed arrangement to the Intercolonial. 

Cana<tian Institute — Was founded in Toronto in 1849 and incorporated by 
Royal Charter, 4th November, 185 1. The first President was the Hon. 
H. H. Killaly, and the charter members were William E. Loga^, John S. 
Browne, Sandford Fleming, Fred. F. Passraore, Kivas Tully, William 
Thomas, and Thomas Ridout. Its objects are : the encouragement and 
general advancement of the physical sciences, the arts and manufactures in 
Canada. Witfi it was amalgamated in 1885 the Natural History Society 
of Toronto, .which, fojunded in 1878, with Professor Henry H. Croft as its 
first President, was incorporated in 1882, its object being the study and 
promotion of the sciences of zoology and botany, with all departments of 
knowledge and pursuits collateral tnereto. It is now known as the Biolog- 
ical Section of the Institute, retaining still, however, its separate corporate 
existence. There are two other sections devoted specially to geology and 
mining, and history respectively. The Institute began publishing its pro- 
ceedings in August, 1852, and has up to the present (March, 1897) issued 
173 numbers, forming 30 volumes. It issues two concurrent series-^(l) 
The Prodeedings, Containing short papers and abstracts of long papers 
which it is desirable to publish soon after being read ; and (3)^ at longer 



26 



f IRST tniKGS Of CJANAbA. 



intervals, the ** Transactions," containing papers in fulL It exchanges 
with all the leading scientific societies ofthe world, and by this means is 
forming one of the most valuable scientific libraries in America. There is 
also a museum in charge of the Biological Section, containing a large num- 
ber of mounted birds, unmounted bird -skins, snakes and reptiles in bottles, 
birds' eggs, insects and plants. 
CmnAdian Loan (3 per cent)— Effected in London, Eng., 1888. First loan 
at this rate of any British colony* It netted £gs is. per ;f 100 without a 
sinking fund. 

The several Canadian Loans since G>nfederation are stated in the 
following table : — 



IMi 






'a B 

•J3 3 

^ S 



5§ 



^ 






^ I 






s? 



^ 



ro"**- • ^ "**■ 






<?S 



00 ro 



8. 






00 O 

H. o 

8\a\ 



8,8,5?^ SITE'S 

V W" W" V W" fO fO fO 



0> »nvo r^ fo t>^ fo N 
SJSt Qn^o g\oo ^ 
O 00 ^ fo m ^ m ov 

00 00 "^ Oj fn t>. O "^ 
cT ti ^ rovo ro « « 



OvO NOO 



^ : 

0\ On • O^ On On 



O O C4 



::^ 



toOiH o *00 O w^O ON»n«i^^OvO ^ 






s? 8 8*8"8"8"8 8"8"8"8 8"8 8*98*^8 

i-T pT ^ ^ *S f^ fS tS t^iA ^\p 'if eT w 



6fl 



mS( 



^ g' 



c« I 



o a 



l^'iRst Things In Canada. ±^ 

Canadian Pacific RaHwMy-^Ezw/u^ion of the C. P, R, 

1. Robert Rene Cavelier de la Salle propounded a scheme for opening a 
way to China and Japan through the lake r^on of Canada. The 
rapids and village of Lachine, near Montreal, took their names from 
the fact that from that point La Salle set out on his journey 1679 

2. Messieurs Vaudreuil and Begon addressed the French Government in 
favour of extending explorations westward to the. Pacific Ocean— the 
Government of France in the following year approving the plan 17 16 

3. Marquis de Beauharnois projected an attempt to communicate with 
the Pacific Ocean 1729 

4. M. de Verendrye bqran his career as explorer in 1731, and pushed 
westward in several directions establishing trading posts on Lake 
Winnipeg, the Saskatchewan river and other points. His son under- 
took more distant expeditions to the Far West ascending the Saskatche- 
wan and sighting mountains in the west in 1743 

5. Alexander McKenzie penetrated the Rockies in the year 1793, dis- 
covered Fraser River, and reached the Pacific Ocean in July 1 793 

(McKenzie proposed *' to open and establish a commercial commun- 
ication through the continent of North Ameaica, between the Atlan- 
tic and Pacific Oceans. ") 

6. David Thompson discovered the Columbia River, striking it at the 

** big bend " and.following it to its mouth 1811 

7. McTaggart, a Scotch engineer connected with the construction of the 
Rideau Canal, advocat^ water communication with the Pacific 
Ocean. He says : "the route should be from Lake Superior to Lake 
Winnipeg westerly, by the South Branch of the Saskatchewan to the 
Rocky Mountains, then through Fleming's Notch from the Black 
River into the North Branch of the Columbia River " 1829 

8. Thomas Dalton, editor of the Toronto Patriot^ used to be looked upon 
as a mere enthusiast because one of his favourite ideas, frequently 
expressed, was that much time would not elapse before the teas and 
silks of China and Japan would be transported direct from the shores 
of the Pacific Ocean to Toronto, by canal, by river, by railway, and 

all the way by steam 1834 

8. Sir Richard Bonnycastle, Lieut. -Colonel of the Roval Engineers and 
Commandant of the militia of Canada West, in " Canada in 1846 " — 
a book printed in 1846— says : ** Two thousand miles of water-road 
by the Ottawa, the St. Lawrence and the Welland have been opened 
in 1845, and future generations will see the white and bearded stranger 
toiling over the rocky barriers that alone remain to repel his advances 
between the great Superior and the Pacific. A new Simplon ; and a 
peaceful Napoleonic mind will accomplish this. * * * Nay more, 
we shall yet place an iron belt from the Atlantic to the Pacific — a rail- 
way from Halifax to Nootka Sound, and thus reach China in a 
pleasant voyage." 1846 

10. Rev. C. J. Nicholay said : ** Here (coast of British Columbia) are 
presented a series of harbors unrivalled in quality and capacity, at least 
within. the same limits, and here it is evident the future emporium of 
the Pacific in West America will be found.. And now that it has been 
settled (by the settlement of the Oregon boundary dispute) that this 
magnificent strait and its series of harbours belong to us, it becomes 
most important that we should, and quickly, open the best possible and 
shortest road to communicate with it. " 1846 

11. Sir John Harvey, in the Governor's speech opening the Nova Scotian 
Leg^lature, January, 1847, referring to the Intefcolonial Railway, 



T 



2^ l^IRST 'tHiNGS tN CxNAbA. 

said ** it would constitute the most important link in that great line 
of communication which may be destined, at no remote period, to 
connect the Atlantic with tne Pacific ocean, and to conduct to a 
British seaport, from those to which it is now forced, that vast stream 
of trade, not of our own western possessions alone, but of the rich and 
extensive wheat and grain growing districts of central North America. " 1847 

12. Robert Christie, in the 4th Chapter of Vol. I., History of Lower 
Canada, wrote : ** Who can say that before the end of the century an 
overland trip to the Columbia or California and voyage thence to the 
blooming isles and Edens of the Pacific , . ,en route for Europe via 
China and India, to spend the winter in St. Petersburg or Paris, may 
not be fashionable and of more frequent and easy accomplishment 
than is at the present time a voyage to Naples or Gibraltar, Madeira 
or Teneriflfe. When the whole may be done in fewer weeks, perad- 
venture days, than it took Sir George Simpson months to perform his 
famous overland expedition ; and a tour of the globe from Quebec by 
that route, looking at London and the lions on the way home in the 
spring, but an agreeable excursion during winter of four months at 
most, including stoppage at Delhi, Tobolsk, Constantinople, Vienna 
and Berlin." 1847 

13. Major Car michael-S myth, R.E., in 1848, wrote an **open letter " to 
Thos. C. Haliburton (Sam Slick) urging the construction of an inter- 
oceanic railway from Halifax to the mouth of the Fraser River. He 
published a pamphlet in February, 1849, dealing most minutely with 
the question. In that pamphlet there is a map which gives his proposed 
routes of the Intercolonial and the C. P. R. almost identical with those 
subsequently adopted. This was the first real effort to demonstrate 
the practicability of a railway " from ocean to ocean." It is a curious 
fact that on Major Carmichael-Smyth*s map the projected C.P.R. 
leaves the 50th parallel at the same point the actual C. P. R. does, 
and goes through tlie Rockies by the very pass so many years after 
selected by the C.P.R 1848 

14. Lieut. Synge, R.E., when stationed in Ottawa (then Bytown), wrote 
a pamphlet entitled ** Canada in 1848," in which he broached the 
idea of an utilization of the water stretches on a large scale for con- 
tinuous communication across the continent, somewhat after Mr. 
McTaggart's plan. His proposal was a railway from Halifax to Que- 
bec, the adoption of the existing steam communication between 
Quebec and Montreal; the construction of a ship canal between 
Montreal and Lake Huron via the Ottawa River, Lake Kipissing and 
French River (the Sault Ste. Marie to be overcome by a canal two 
miles long) ; steam to the Kaministiquia River ; a railway thence to 
the Lake of the Woods ; rail to the head of the first rapid of the 
Winnipeg River ; water again to the mouth of the SasKatchewan 
River, at which point he proposed to *'call a halt " till the Indians 
had been civilized off the face of the country, when further advances 
could be made up the 1,400 miles of the Saskatchewan that were 
navigable ; thence a railway to pierce the Rockies to the Pacific 
Ocean 184J 

15. Major Carmichael-Smyth's pamphlet produced a great effect upon the 
English mind. Thus the London (Eng.) Morning Herald of the 7th 
February, 1849, dealing with the Canadian Pacific Railway, said : 
** At this moment when renewed attention is turned to all the routes 
which, during ages past, have firom time to time been talked about as 
best fitted for a link of communication between the Atlantic an4 



,.1850 

le whistle ^ ^g 
s, and to ^^ 



First Things in Canada. 29 

Pacific Oceans, we call upon the people of Great Britain and Her 
Majesty's Government to reflect that the best and shortest link of 
communication — the ffceat link required to unite all her dominions in 
one powerful chain— is now in her own possession." The London 
Economist, March 17th, 1849, with great faith in the enterprise of the 
people of British North America, said : " The project of a railway 
from Hali&x to Fraser's River well deserves to be kept in view, but 
it is rather for the colonists to execute than for the mother country.". 1849 

16. F. A. Wilson and A. B. Richards published a book in London, £ng., 
entitled *' Britain Redeemed and Canada Preserved.'' As a means to 
these ends they proposed a railway from Halifax to Quebec, thence to 
stretch out to Fort Langley on Fraser .River by a Tine that on the 
sketch-map appears as straight as the crow flies, seemingly in sublime 
indifference to Rocky Mountain barriers, great lakes and capacious 
muskeags ,. 1850 

17* Hon. Joseph Howe at a public meeting in Halifax, 15th July, 
said : '* I believe that many in this room will live to hear the 
of the steam engine in the passes of the Rocky Mountains, 
make the journey from Halifax to the Pacific in five or six days.". . . . 185 1 

18. Asa Whitney, one of the fathers of the United States' inter-oceanic 
railway system, read a paper before the Royal Geographical Society 
in 185 1, in which he refers favorably to Major Car micha el-Smyth s 
advocacy of an inter-oceanic railway, and states that the roost feasible 
route is that through British territory 1851 

19' Alan MacDonell, of Toronto, presented a petition and a Bill to the 

^ Legislature of the Province of Canada for the incorporation of the 
Lake Superior and Pacific Railway Company. He read a valuable 
paper before the Railway Committee and afterwards published it as a 
pamphlet. The incorporators named in this, the first Canadian 
Pacific Railway Bill, were Alan MacDonell, Angus D. McDonell, 
James McGill Strachan and Joseph D. Ridout. The capital was 
placed at ;^i, 000,000 currency, in shares of £2^ currenqr. The 
gauge was 5 feet 6 inches ; and the incorporators asked for aid in the 
form of a belt of land of the width of thirty miles on each side of the 
railway. The Railway Committee said in their report that they 
'* reluctantly report against the Bill on the ground that the claims of 
the Indian tribes had first to be adjusted. * * * At the same 
time your Committee feel bound to state their impression that the 
scheme ought not to be regarded as visionary or impracticable. 
* * * Your Committee are strongly inclined to believe that 
this great work will at some future day (should this continent continue 
to advance as heretofore in prosperity and population) be undertaken 
by Great Britain and the United States. * ♦ • Your Com- 
mittee indulge the hope that the Imperial Government will be led to 
entertain the subject as one of national importance. " 1851 

20. Rev. J. C. Nicholay, in a letter to Mr. Gladstone in 1853, proposed a 
Missionary College for British Columbia, quoted Asa Whitney s state- 
ment before the Royal Geographical Society, and endorsed its accuracy 
from his own observations 1853 

21 In 1854 Hon. John Young, of Montreal, presented, to the Legislature 
of Canada, a petition asking for a charter by the name of the Northern 
Pacific Railway Company, with power to construct and maintain a 
line of railway from Montreal by the way of Bytown (Ottawa) and 
the Valley of the Ottawa River to the western boundary of the Pro- 
vince of Canada, with the further right to construct and maintain, 



30 First Things in Canada. 

for the use of said railway, a bridge across the St. Mary's River. 
Among the incorporators were A. N. Morin, A. T. Gait, John Young, 
Ira Gould, John A. Poor, and others living in Canada and in the 
United States 1854 

22. Chief Justice Draper, of Canada, in his evidence before the English 
House of Commons on the Hudson Bay Territory in 1857, said : " I 
hope to see, or at least that my children will see, a railway wholly in 
Bntish territory from the Atlantic to the Pacific Oceans.' 1857 

23. Lord Bury in Praset^s Magazine^ urged upon the British Government 
the duty of the immediate construction otthe railway 1857 

24. Hon. John Ross, Inspector-General of Canada, and President of the 
Grand Trunk Railway, said : ** if any project were set afloat for carry- 
ing a railway across the Continent, I believe it is conceded that that 
portion over which the Queen's government extends has the most 
feasible route that can be adopted." 1858 

25. Sir E. B. Lytton, in a speech introducing the Bill founding the Colony 
of British Columbia, referred to the railway as " that great viaduct by 
which we hope one day to connect the harbours of Vancouver with 
the Gulf of St. Lawrence. " Mr. Roebuck, Viscount Bury and Lord 
Russell spoke in favour of the railway. Mr. Roebuck said: *' Plans 
have been laid before Lord Lytton for carrying a railway completely 
across the continent, so that a direct communication would be estab- 
lished between England and Vancouver by way of Halifax. This is a 
magnificent scheme, the accomplishment of which would unite Eng- 
land to Vancouver and with China. " 1858 

26. Samuel Cunard took an active part in 1858 in promoting a scheme for 
the construction, by means of a company, of a railway from Halifax 
to Quebec, and further on — offering to convey letters and passengers 
from Liverpool to British Columbia. He calculated that the journey 
would take 35 days. (See Sir E. B. Lytton 's speech introducing the 
Bill for founding a colony in British Columbia) 1858 

27. In the Queen's speech proroguing Parliament in 1858, Her Majesty 
said : *' The Act to which Her Majesty has assented, for the establish- 
ment of the Colony of British Columbia, was urgently required in 
cpnsequence of the recent discoveries of gold in that district. But 
Her Majesty hopes that the new Colony on the Pacific may be but 
one step in the career of steddy progress by which Her Majesty's 
dominions in North America may ultimately be peopled in an unbroken 
chain from the Atlantic to the Pacific, by a loyal and industrious 
population of subjects of the British Crown." 1858 

28. The Legislature of the Province of Canada incorporated the North- 
West Transportation, Navigation and Railway Company, which was 
** empowered to construct links of railway between navigable lakes 
and rivers, so as to provide facilities for transport from the shores of 
Lake Superior to Fraser's River. " 1858 

29. James Anderson, writing to the Montreal Gazette, October, 1858, 
says : '* The progress of imjprovement has at length pointed to a rail- 
way across the continent, within the British dominions, having its 
western terminus at Fucas Straits. * ♦ * The prospectus of the 
Pacific Railway is already issued." 1858 

30. Earl Carnarvon, on the occasion of the presentation of the Royal 
Geographical Society's Medals to Capts. Burton and Palliser, 23rd 
May, 1859, said : ** It is not unreasonable to look forward to the 
establishment of a regular system of transit, commencing from Nova 
Scotia and the shores of New Brunswick, passing through Canadaj 



First Things in Canada. 31 

touching lipon the Red River Settlement, crossing the prairies to the 
Vermilhon Pass (where we know that the inclination is so moderate 
that nature has placed no insurmountable obstacles to the construc- 
tion of a railway) till it reaches the gold-bearing Colony of British 
Columbia, creating fresh centres of civilization, and consolidating 

British feeling and interest" 1859 

3I' Governor Stevens, of Minnesota, before a Committee of the State 
Legislature, said : " The most desirable route to the Pacific will be 
found in the possession of Great Britain, and there will be the place 

for a great inter-oceanic railway." iS6o 

32. Alexander Rattray, M.D., in a book published by him in 1861, writes : 
'* The formation of a trans- American railway and telegraph to connect 
the Atlantic with the Pacific is a project mtimately connected with 
the commercial interests of both the Colonies and of Great Britain. 
The commercial interests are weighty. The tea, silks and other valu- 
able products ot China and Eastern Asia, find their way to Europe by 
various channels — over land through Siberia ; by sea round the Cape 
of Good Hope, or by the Isthmus of Suez. A Euphrates Valley rail- 
way is also projected. All of these have their advantages and dangers. 
The Cape route is tedious and the cargoes are liable to suffer, especially 
by the double passage through the tropics. The Suez route is quicker 
and will be facilitated by the DeLessep*s Canal now in progress, but 
a considerable part of the voyage is inter-tropical and therefore 
unfavourable. The Siberian route is shut to all but Russia. Some 
safer, more rapid and cheaper route is, therefore, much required, and 
this, steam communicasion between China and British Columbia, in 
connection with a trans- American railway, will supply." Dr. Rattray 
also pointed out that the trans -American railway would have coal 
fields in dose proximity both at the Nova Scotian and the British 

Columbian terminal points 1861 

33- Henry Yule Hind, m his ** Overland Route to British Columbia," 

advocated the construction of the railway 1862 

34« Sandford Fleming, in a pamphlet published in 1862, said : '' A con- 
tinuous line of railway, with electric telegraph, is better calculated to 
meet the permanent wants of this country, and serve the interests of 
the Colonial Empire, than any other means of communication between 
the two oceans." Can. Pamp. 584. (Mr. Fleming tells me that his 
attention was first turned to the subject by Major Carmichael-Smyth's 
pamphlet, which he read soon after its publication and became satis- 
fied the plan was feasible). The next year the people of the Red 
River Valley at a meeting held in Red River settlement passed resolu- 
tions in support of an inter-oceanic railway in British territory, and 
appointed Sandford Fleming to represent their interests. Mr. Fleming 
prepared a statement which, with the memorial of the people of the 
Red River Settlement, he submitted by special request to the Governor- 
General, Lord Monck, and then proceeding to England submitted it 
to the British Government, the Duke of Newcastle then being Colonial 
Minister, with whom Mr. Fleming had several interviews. Mr. 
Fleming's memorial is an interesting document, and is to be found in 

the Sessional Papers of 1863 (No. 53) 1862-3 

35. In 1862, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the House of Repre- 
sentatives in the Congress of the United States reported favourably 
upon a project for the annexation of the British North American Pro- 
vinces. There were twelve fundamental Articles in this overture to 
the Provinces, one of which was that the United States would aid the 



32 First Things in Canada. 

construction of a railway from Nova Scotia to the St. Lawrence 
River, and of a railway from Ottawa by way of Sault Ste. Marie, 
Bayfield and Superior in Wisconsin, Pembina and Fort Garry on the 
Red River of the North, to the Pacific Ocean, by granting 12,800 
acres per mile and by guaranteeing dividends of 5 per cent., provided 
such guarantee of stock did not exceed $30,000 a mile 1862 

36. In the debates on Confederation, the public men of British North 
America declared that before very long the inter-oceanic railway would 
become a commercial and a political necessity 1865 

37. Milton and Cheadle in ** North- West Passage to British Columbia " 
say : '* If a railway were constructed from Halifax to some point in 
British Columbia, the whole distance from Hong Kong would be 
accomplished in 36 days." 1865 

38. Alfred Waddington urged the construction of a railway firom Ottawa 
to the Pacific Ocean in a paper read before the Royal Geographical 
Society, in pamphlets and in numerous newspaper articles. Wadding- 
ton, by his efforts, aroused public attention and created in the public 
mind of British Columbia the determination to make the construction 
of the trans-continental railway a sine qua nan in the terms of Union. 
The British Columbian L^islature voted him a town site at Bute 
Inlet, in recognition of his unremitting efforts in behalf of the railway. 1868 

39. A. J. Russell wrote a pamphlet in which he says : ** We (Canada) 
command, for the purpose both of defence and commerce, the best 
and shortest route to the interior and to the Pacific 1869 

40. Malcolm McLeod, under the nom de plume of BritannicuSy wrote 
many letters published in the Ottawa Times, Ottawa Citizen, Mont- 
real Gazette, &;c., urging the construction of the inter-oceanic 
railway 1869-75 

41. British Columbian delegates proposed, and the Dominion Government 
(Sir John Macdonald, Premier) agreed to, the construction of a rail- 
way connecting the Pacific and the Atlantic Oc^ns as part of the 
Union pact 1870 

42. In the 1 87 1 Session of the Dominion Parliament, Sir George Car tier 
moved, seconded by Sir Leonard Tilley, a resolution that the railway 
referred to in the Address concerning the Union of British Columbia 
with Canada, adopted 1st April, 1871, should be constructed and 
worked by private enterprise, and that the public aid should consist 01 
such liberal grants of land, and such subsidy in money or other aid, 
not unduly pressing on the industries and resources of the Dominion, 

as Parliament should determine, i ith April 1871 

43. In 187 1, Jay Cooke entered into correspondence with Hon, Mr. (later 
Sir Adams) Archibald, then Governor of Manitoba, with a view to 
secure an international railway. The proposal was that such railway 
should have four divisions, three of which were to be Canadian and 
one United States. The first division, to be called the "Ottawa" 
division, was to extend from Montreal to the "Soo;"the second, 
called "Duluth," from the "Soo" to Pembina via Duluth; the 
third ** Saskatchewan," from Pembina by Forts Garry and Edmonton 
to the Rockies, and the fourth " Columbia," to the Pacific Coast 
north of latitude 49" There was to be a land grant by each Govern- 
ment, and a joint Governmental guarantee of 6 per cent, at the rate 
of $30,000 per mile, for 25 years. The Canadian charter was to 
contain a clause authorizing consolidation with a railway from Lake 
Nipissing, north of Lake Superior to Fort Garry, whenever the British 
Government should undertake to aid its construction by sufficient 



First Things in Canada. 33 

subsidies. A draft Bill was prepared, entitled ** Act for organizing 
the. Canadian Pacific Railway Company." The land grant was to l)e 
24,000 acres per mile, the rate of construction 50 miles a year, or the 
whole line before July ist, 1886, and a guarantee of the capital stock 
to the amount of $10,000 per mile for 25 years at 5 per cent. It is 
said the sudden and dangerous illness of Sir John Macdonald pre- 
vented the further consideration of this draft Bill .1871 

44- Sandford Fleming appointed Engineer-in-Chief of Surveys in 187 1. 
He published his first report in 1871 

45. Canadian Pacific Railway general charter passed the Canadian Parlia- 
ment, authorizing construction by a Company. ... 1872 

46. Inter-Oceanic Railway Company applied for, and obtained a charter. 
Hon. D. Macpherson and others, incorporators 1872 

47. Canadian Pacific charter applied for, and obtained, by Sir Hugh 
Allan, Hon. J. J. C. Abbott, D. A. Smith, and others 1^72 

48. Joseph Tass^ published an able pamphlet in advocacy of Chemin de 
fer danadien au Pacifique. 1874 

49. The Inler-Oceanic and the Canadian Pacific Companies failing to 
secure capital, the Dominion Government undertook to build the 
road and fixed the eastern terminus at Nipissing 1874 

50. Act passed confirming agreement with Geo. Stephen respecting com- 

J)letion of the railway from Selkirk to the boundary line, and the line 
rom Emerson to Duluth and Sarnia 1879 

51. Sir John Macdonald and other members of the Government went to 
England to promote the Canadian Pacific Railway i38o 

52. Contract signed with the Canadian PaciBc Railway Company ; Sir 
Charles Tupper signed on behalf of the Government ; and Geo. 
Stephen, Duncan Mclntyre, J. S. Kennedy, R. B. Angus, J. J. Hill, 
Morton, Rose k Co. , J. Kohn, Reinach & Co. , as the incorporators 

of the Company, 21st October 1880 

Canadian Pacinc KaaXymcj— Items of interest relating to the C. P, R. 

Act of Incorporation — passed by Parliament of Canada, 1881. 

Bill — The first inter-oceanic railway Bill was submitted to the Canadian 
Legislature in 185 1. The Railway Committee reported on it adversely, 
but suggested that Great Britain, the United States and Canada might, 
by a union of their financial strength and engineering skill, accomplish the 
undertaking. 

Cabinet Minister— The first Cabinet Minister to cross to the Pacific 
Coast by the C. P. R. was Hon. Thomas White, Minister of the Interior, 
July, 1886. Sir John Macdonald followed shortly after, arriving at Port 
Moody on 23rd July, the same day of the same month on which, 50 years 
before, the first railway in Canada was opened. As he steamed into 
Victoria, intelligence was conveyed that the first tea ship from China, for 
the C. P. R. had just been sighted far off in the Pacific ocean. 

Directors — The first were George Stephen, Duncan Mclntyre, John S. 
Kennedy, Richard B. Angus, James J. Hill, Henry Stafford Northcote, 
of London, Esquires ; Pascoe du P. Grenfell, of London, Merchant, and 
Baron J. de Reinach, of Paris, Banker. 

Eastern BouND~The first eastern bound train arrived in Montreal from 
Port Moody, July 12th, 1886, "sharp on time." 

ENGINEER—The first Engineer-in-Chief of Surveys of the C. P. R. was 
appointed March 4th, 187 1, Mr. Sandford Fleming receiving the appoint- 
ment. 
3 



34 First Things in Canada. 

Engineer— " Sir Alexander Mackenzie inscribed in large letters, with 
vermilion, this brief memorial on the rocks of the Pacific ocean : ' Alex- 
ander Mackenzie, from Canada by land, 22nd July, 1793.* Who will be 

the first Engineer to inscribe upon the Rocky Mountains : * On this 

day of.... 18.. A B piloted the first locomotive engine across the 
Rockies.*'* So wrote Major Carmichael-Smyth in 1S49. The first 
Engineer to pilot a locomotive across the Rockies via the C. P. R. was 
Robert Mee, who crossed July 15th, 1884, ninety-one years, almost to. the 
day, after Mackenzie had painted — not the towi|^ but — the rocks, red. 

First Deposit — Sir Leonard Tilley, as Minister ^f Finance, certified that 
the C. P. R. Company had deposited one million of dollars with him, 
under and by virtue of the Act and of the Letters Patent, i6th February, 
1881. 

Freight Train— First fireight train (16 cars) of Wheat from Manitoba for 
Montreal left Portage la Prairie, December, 1885. 

Freight Train— First freight train (19 cars) of flour from St. Paul passed 
over the C. P. R. bridge at Sault Ste. Marie into Canada, 9th Januar\', 
1888. 

Freight Train— The first loaded train that passed over the entire length 
of the C. P. R., from ocean to ocean, was freighted with naval stores 
belonging to the Imperial Government, transferred from Quebec. The 
first car-load of ordinary merchandise consigned to British Columbia over 
the C. P. R. was a cargo of Jamacia sugar, rlsfined in Halifax and sent 
overland to the Pacific terminus, nearly four thousand miles in oiie stretch, 
under the flag of Great Britain. 

General Manager— The first general manager of the C. P. R. was W. C. j 
Van Home, appointed November, 1881. ^ ' 

Governor-General— The first Governor-General of Canada to cross to ; 
the Pacific via the C. P. R. was Lord Stanley of Preston, August, 1889. 
As Secretary of State for the Colonies, Lord Stanley of Preston sent the ' 
first official despatch from the Imperial Government congratulating Canada 
on the completion of the railway. Lord Lansdowne crossed before, but j 
had to use horses for about 60 miles. * ' 

Halifax— The C. P. R. cars first entered Halifax City, June 3rd, 1889. 

Lachinb Bridge — The first stone of the first railway bridge connected! 
with the C. P. R. to span the St. Lawrence was laid March i8th, 1 886.1 
This bridge is the second railway bridge over the St. Lawrence, the bridge 
at the Coteau being the third. The Lachine bridge has a length of 3,550 
feet. Its elevation is 60 feet above the water, which flows under it at thel 
rate of 1 5 miles an hour. 

Letters Patent, witnessed by Lord Lome, were granted i6th Februar>v 
1881, to the C. P. R. Co. 

Mail — The first throogh mail from China and Japan via the C. P. R. left 
Rimouski August 22nd, 1888. The number of letters carried between th« 
East and the West via Canada, in 1896 was 229,738 ; of newspaper^ 
98,757 ; of parcels 453 ; and of miscellaneous matter 73,558. 
Pamphlet— The first pamphlet written in advocacy of the inter-oceani< 
railway from Halifax to the Pacific Ocean was published in Lrjndon (Eng.| 
in February, 1849. The author, Major Carmichael-Smyth, dedicated itic 
Thomas C. Haliburton, autl^or of " Sam Slick." The second edition wa^ 
published in 1885, announcing the completion of the railway. The authoi 
died at an advanced age in i^. ' 

Passenger Train— The first passenger train for Winnipeg left MQntrd 



First Things in Canada. 35 

2nd November, 1885. The first regular through passenger train from 
Montreal to Burrord Inlet left Montreal June 28th, 1886, and reached its 
destination in 5 days and 19 hours. The first through passenger train for 
St. Paul via the Sault Ste. Marie left Montreal June 3rd, 1889. 

President— The first President of the C.P.R. was George Stephen, who 
was created a baronet by the Queen in 1886, and a baron, title Mount- 
Stephen, in 1 891, in recognition of the Imperial character of his services 
as one of the leading spirits of the enterprise. He was succeeded as 
President by Mr. W. C. Van Home (how Sir William, Hon. K.C.M.G.), 
in September, 1888. 

Railway Returns— fhe C.P.R. first appears in the Returns made by the 
Railways to the Government of Canada, c^ i88o-8i. Its earnings for the 
year were $388,527, and the mileage 229 miles. The earnings for 1896 
were $20,175,385, and the mileage 6,211)^. 

Short LrNE — The short line across Maine to New Brunswick, built for the 
C. P. R. , was examined and approved by the State of Maine Commissioners, 
October, 1888. It was opened for traffic, June 2nd, 1889. 

Sod — The first sod of the C.P.R. main line was turned May 2nd, 1881 ; the 
last spike was driven by Sir Donald Smith, in the Rockies, November 7th,'7* 
1885. ' 

Sailing Ship— The first sailing ship from Japan, consigned to the CP.R. 
with teas, was the ship W, B. Flinty which arrived at Port Moody, July 
27tb, 1886. 

Standard Time— The CP.R. was the first railway to adopt the 24-hour _^ 
system, which it did .on opening its Western Section. The Intercolonial . 
railway adopted the system in 1887. (See Standard Time.) 

Steamers — The CP.R. Steamers were first placed on Lake Superior, to 
connect Owen Sound and Port Arthur, in December, 1883. 

Telegraphic Office— The first telegraphic office of the CP.R. system, 
in Halifax, was opened January nth, 1890, on the birth-day of Sir John 
Macdonald. 

Terminal Station— The terminal station of the CP.R. on Windsor street, 
Montreal, was opened for passenger traffic, February 4th, 1889. 

Telegraph System— The C.P.R. telegraph system opened an office in St. 
John, N.B., 29th January, 1889. The Maridme Provinces were thus for 
the first time brought into communication, by one continuous telegraphic 
system, with the Pacific Coast, thus forming an electric connection Mtween 
the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. 

Telegraph System of the C.P.R. reached Canso, Nova Scotia, and con- 
nected with the Atlantic cables, direct ^ for the first time, on December 
17th, 1889. 
Canadian Pacific Railway— The Process of Evolution was, therefore .— 

1. A great road (waggon). 

2. A water highway. 

3. A combined water and rail way. 

4. Railway firom the western shore of Lake Superior. 

5. An all-rail way from Montreal to the Straits of Georgia. 

As a railway, it was at first to have been built by the combined efforts 
of Great Britain, the United States and Canada ; 2nd, by Great Britain 
and Canada ; 3rd, it was built by Canada alone. It was at first to have 
been constructed by convict labor, at the rate of a few miles a year ; 2nd, 
at the rate of 50 miles a year ; and 3rd, in ten or twelve years. Under 
the energetic management of the incorporators and Mr. Van Home, backed 



36 First Things in Canada. 

by the Dominion Goveinment, it was built in four years and nine month! 
from the day on which the contract with the C.P.R. Company became law 
Canals — The first canals in Canada — to overcome the Cedar, Cascades, and 
Coteau Rapids — were begun in 1779 and finished in 1 78 1. They wen 
enlarged in 1S04 and 1817, and were abandoned in 184s. (See interest 
ing account in Canadiana^ January, 1890.) The canal system of Canada 
is composed of four branches : (i) the River St. Lawrence ; (2) the Ottawa 
River ; (3) the Rideau River ; and (4) the .Richelieu and Lake Cham plain. 
I. St. Lawrence River System :— 

(a) The Lachine Canal, begun in 182 1, opened in 1825. 



{b) BeauhamoU 


(( 


1842 


(< 


1845. 


{c) Cornwall " 


<( 


1834 


cc 


1843. 


{d) Williamsburg : 










Farran's Point " 


<( 


1844 


<c 


1847. 


Rapid PUt " 
Galops ** 


(( 


1844 


C( 


1847. 


(C 


1844 


(( 


1846. 


(*) Welland 


(< 


1824 


(< 


1829. 



(First enlargement of the Welland begun in 1841, and completed 185a 
Second enlargement begun in 1873, completed in 1883 to 12 feet, and in 
1887 to 14 feet. 

(/) Sault Ste. Marie, begun in 1887, opened in 1895. 
Connections of the St. Lawrence system : 

Burlington Bay Canal, begun in 1825, opened in 1832. 

St. Clair Channel " 1855 " 1872. 

Murray Bay Canal " 1882 " 1889. , 

Trent River Navigation " 1837 ** . | 

2. Ottawa River System : I 

(a) Ste. Anne's Lock, begun in 1840, completed 1843. 

(^) Carillon Canal ** 1826 ** 1833. ' 

( Enlarged in 1 87 1 -92. ) j 

(0 Chute ^ Blondeau " 1826 ** 1832. ' 

(V) Grenville Canal " 1819 " 1833. , 

( Enlarged in 1 87 1 -92. ) | 

(*) Culbute Locks and Dam «* 1873 " 1876. 

3. The Rideau River Canal System : i 
This system might be called more properly the Rideau and Cataraqul 
Navigation, for it consists of the conversion of the two rivers into one coo^ 
tinuous navigable channel. The work was begun in 1826 and on the 2910 
May, 1832, a steamer passed through from By town (Ottawa) to Kingston. 

4. Richelieu and Lake Cham plain System : 

St. Ours Lock, begun in 1844, opened in 1849. 

Chambly Canal " 1831 ** 1843. I 

5. St. Peters Canal, opened 1854, completed 1869, and enlarged 1875-81. 

The St. Lawrence Canals are 74 miles in length, and have 52 locks fronj 
200 feet by 45 feet to 900 feet by 60, and -with from 9 feet to 22 feet a 
water on the sills. l 

The new Soulanges Canal which takes the place of the Beauharnois \ 
14 miles long ; the Ottawa and Rideau Rivers Canals 29 miles ; thi 
Richelieu and Lake Champlain, 12 miles ; making in all 118 miles a 
canal. 

Since its opening to 1895, ^^^ Welland Canal has carried 47,749,31 
tons of shipping, ofwhich 22,744,707 tons were Canadian, and 25,cx>4,6l 
United States.. 



PiRST tnlNGS iK CanaOA. 3^ 

The total cost of the canals of Canada to 30th June, 1896, was 
$80,925,522, of which $20,692,244 was spent before Confederation, 
$4,173,921 being expended by the Imperial Government. The policy of 
the present Government is to enlarge the canals to a minimum depth of 16 
feet, all through, as speedily as possible. 

Sault Ste. Marie— This canal wa^ surveyed in 1797. Harmon, in his 
journal, under date ** Sault Ste. Marie, May 30th, 1800," says ** Here the 
North- West Company have built locks to take up loaded canoes.'' 

Lachine Canal — The first vessel passed through in 1825. 

Burlington Bay Canal opened by Lieut. -Governor, ist July, 1826. It 
was the occasion of the first public celebration to commemorate the open- 
ing of any public work in Upper Canada. 

Wklland Canal— First sod turned 30th November, 1824, by George 
Keefer. First vessel through from Lake Ontario to Lake Erie was the 
Annie ^ Jane^ November 30th, 1830. 

Rideau Canal — The first stone of the Rideau Canal Locks at Ottawa (then 
Bytown), was laid by Capt. Franklin, the celebrated Arctic explorer 
(afterwards Sir John) August i6th, 1827. The Montreal Gazette^ of 
October 23, 1827, quoting from the Montreal Herald^ gives an extract 
from a letter written by a correspondent at the Rideau Canal, dated 
August i6ih : '* I have this evening to communicate to you one of the 
most important events that ever occurred in the Canadas— an event which 
will doubtless form an era in the history oi this country for ages to come. 
It was no less than the depositing of the first stone of the locks of the 
Rideau Canal. Yesterday evening at a late hour, Capt. Franklin, the 
celebrated traveller, arrived at the headquarters of the detachment of the 
71st Regiment, now doing duty here. Colonel By decided upon welcom- 
ing this enterprising traveller to the regions of hospitality and civilization 
in a way that would identify his return with a grand undertaking so highly 
beneficial to the continent he had spent so long time and labor in explor- 
ing, viz. : the laying the first stone of the locks of the Rideau Canal. * * 
This morning all was bustle to get ready. At 4 o'clock a.m., the stooe, 
weighing above \% tons, was brought to its bed, when the Captain gave 
the final knock to the stone in due form." Earl Dalhousie laid the 
foundation stone of the lowest lock of the Rideau Canal, 29th September, 
1827. It was finished in 1834, and cost $3,860,000. The Plumper was 
the first steamer to pass through from Bytown to Kingston, 29th May, 
1832. The canal was transferred by the Imperial Government to the 
Canadian authorities, January, 1857. 

This canal was built by Colonel By, R.E., after whom Ottawa City 
was for some years called Bytown. Tis said that Colonel By prepared 
his plans, went to Quebec to lay them before the Governor-General, who 
said, *' Come to dinner to-night. By ; bring the plans, and we will discuss 
them after dinner." When the guests had left, the Governor-General 
said, ** Now, By, bring out your plans." " Excuse me," said Colonel 
By, ** the plans are private, and there is still a gentleman in the room 
besides ourselves." "Oh," said His Excellency, "he's an officer and a 

fentleman; that's all right." The plans were produced and discussed. 
Text morning the "officer and gentleman " posted off to Bytown, and 
bought the Fiats — now called, after him, the Le Breton Flais^through 
which, by the original plans. By proposed the canal should run into the 
river, just below the Chaudiere Falls. Colonel By, on discovering the 
treachery^ swore a great soldier-like oath that Le Breton should not make 




38 First Jrimcs in Canada.. 

a stiver out of his purchase, and accordingly turned the course of the Canal 
in an opposite direction, taking it through the ** Deep Cut " to the Ottawa 
River, on the lower side of Parliament Bluff. 
Cornwall Canal — First steamer through, the Highlandery 1842. 
Murray QANAL—rFirst vessel to pass through from Bay of Quinte to Lake 
Ontario was the yacht Surprise^ August 15th, 1889. The Canal is 5^ 
miles long, 50 teet wide, and 13^ feet deep. 

Cape Breton was annexed to Nova Scotia in 1763. In April, I770> it was 
resolved by the Assembly of Nova Scotia, that as the inhabitants of Cape 
Breton had no title to the lands they held other than licenses of occupation, 
no writ should issue for Cape Breton, but that the members of the County 
of Halifax should represent the Island in the Nova Scotian Legislature. 
In 1784, Cape Breton was separated politically from Nova Scotia when 
Thomas Townsend (Lord Sydney) was Colonial Secretary. Major Des- 
barres was the first Governor under the new regime, ^nd the Island was 
ruled by Governor and Council till 1820, when it was re-annexed to Nova 
Scotia by order of the British Government (August 15th). In December, 
1820, an Act was passed extending the laws of Nova Scotia to Cape Bre- 
ton. In the same year a petition numerously signed was sent to England 
protesting against the annexation. Mr. Hume presented the petition, 
making a strong speech on the occasion. In 1843, a petition was again 
sent to the Sovereign, asking for the restoratibn of the Constitution of 1784. 
The reply (June 2nd, 1846) was that the Island was not entitled to the said 
constitution. It was signed by Hon. W. E. Gladstone. Cape Breton has 
formed pari ol Nova Scotia ever since. 

CantileTer Bridge over Niagara River, first of its kind in Canada, opened 
December 20ih, 1883. 

Cardinal— First Cardinal in Canada, Mgr. Taschereau, on whom the baretta 
was conferred July, 1886. 

CamiTal— The first winter Ice Palace Carnival in Montreal was held January, 
1883. 

Cartier — First landing in Canada, in the Miramichi region, 8th July, 1534. 

Cartridge Factory— First Government Cartridge Factory in Canada, was 
established in Quebec City by Order in Council, September 9th, 1882. 

Cavalry— First organized body of, in Canada, No, i Troop Mounted Cavalry, 
18x2. Several Montrealers volunteered to serve as a troop of cavalry 
wherever and whenever their sovereign needed them. The Governor- 
General, Sir George Prevost, accepted their offer and in recognition of 
their public spirited offer obtained for them permission to bear the name 
of the Royal Montreal Cavalry. 

Card Money — First circulated in Canada between 1685 and 171 7. Specie 
was very scarce in the earlier years of New France, owing to the constant 
drain for payment of imported articles from the mother country. To 
prevent this scarcity the government of France issued in 1670, at the 
instance of La Compagnu des Indesy special coins of five sols and fifteen 
sols denominations. By edict these passed current in Canada at a third 
more than their face value — the five sols passing for six sols, eight deniers, 
and the fifteen for twenty sols. The payment of the troops had, by custom, 
been fixed for the month of January, but as the money did not arrive from 
France till after the opening of navigation, and often much later, Jacques 
de MeuUes, Chevalier Councillor of the King in Councils, Seigneur de la 
Source, Grand Bailly d'Orleans, Intendant of Justice, Police and Finance 
in Canada, Acadia, Newfoundland and other countries in French North 



First Things m Canada. 39 

America, conceived the idea of payine the men in bills to be redeemed 
'* when the ship came in," and as he had nothing else that would better 
suit his purpose he took playing cards cut into four quarters, stamped 
ead) with an impression in wax of a crowned JUur de lis, wrote on them 
their value, and had them signed by the Clerk of the Treasury and the ^4* 
Intendant. As de MeuUes had promised to redeem them in metal / 
currency, they were popularly known as papier aux metaux—^* Paper 
with metal behind it." 

The first issue was withdiawn as soon as the money came from the 
French Treasury. , M. de Champigny, successor of de MeuUes, issued 
them again in November i6rh, 1690, and each year after they were used 
for the temporary purpose till 1700, when they ceased to be issued. They 
were renewed in 1708, and abolished in 17 17 and coins used. Commercial 
considerations seeming to justify their use, an ordinance of the King, 
March 2nd, 1729, ordered the making of card money, and specified the 
precautions to l)S taken. After that the issue went on at an accelerating 
rate till C)ctober,4759, when the capitulation of Quebec and subsequent 
events put an end to their issue after an existence of nearly seventy years. 

Paper money was first issued in Acadia in 1708, the Governor issuing -U. .^ 
it '* because he had seen it done in Canada." Paper money was sometimes 
resorted to in Ontario for specific -purfioses. Thus in 184.2, there was a 
small local circulation in Toronto and in Kingston, caused by the respec- 
tive corporations issuing one and two dollar bills payable one year after 
date with interest, for effecting local improvements. Thirty-six private 
individuals and 'trading firms issued paper money during the years 1837-38. 
The value was chiefly from one to sixty sous, with a few bills of larger 
denominations. / 

Census — First official census of Canada was taken in 1665. ^^ ^^ ^^^ ^ \ 
formidable undertaking, the population numbering only 3) 251. 1 

Census— First taken in P. E. Island, 1798. Population, 4,372. I "^ 

Census — First complete census taken in Nova Scotia, 18 17. Population, /' 
81,351. There were previous census takings, more or less imperfect, in ' 
1770 and previous years. 

Census — First complete census taken in New Brunswick, 1824. Population, • 

74.176. w V y 

Census of the Dominioii— The first census of the Dominion of Canada vra^^ 
taken in 1871. The population of what now forms the Dominion vftis/^ 
3.635i024in 1871 ; 4,324,810 in 1881, and 4i833»239 in 1891. The 
urban population of Canada in 1871 was 18 '8 per cent, of the whole ; in 
1881, 21*1 per cent., and in 1891, 28 '8 per cent. The males in 1891 
numbered 2,460,471, and the females, 2,372,768. 4,185,877 of the total 
population were born in Canada, and 647,362 in other countries. British- 
born constituted 967 per cent, of the whole population. The religions of 
the people were: Roman Catholic, 1,992,017; Methodists, 847,765; 
Presbyterians, 755,326 ; Anglicans, 646,059 ; Baptists, 302,565 ; other 
denominations, 289,507. The single persons of both sexes numbered 
3,053,392, or 63*8 per cent.; the married, 1,588,055, or 32.85 per cent., 
and the widowed, 191,792, or 3.97 per cent. Over three-fifths were 
single, nearly one-third married, and not quite one-twentieth widowed. 
There were 458,876 men who were bachelors, and 330,628 women vWho 
were spinsters. About 40 per cent, of the men of marriageable age were 
unmarried in 189 1, and about the same in i88i> About 367 per cent. 
of the women 20 years old and over were unmarried in 1891, and about 
37*1 percent, in 1881. 



4o First Things in Canada. 

There were 2,562,366 persons of the population of working zgc support- 
ing 2,207,759 other oersons in 1891, and 2,258,573 persons supporting 
2,007,468 others in 1881. The supported in 1891 were 86*16 per cent, 
of the supporters, and in 188 1 they were 88*88 per cent. Just about one- 
half of the whole population was under 21 years of age. In 189 1 about 
48*15 percent, of the women of reproductive age were married. The 
death rate in 189 1 was 14*10 per thousand of the living. The birth rate 
was 28 '3 per thousand of the population. In 1881 the death rate was 
14*80 and the birth rate 31*80. 70*83 per cent, of the people of all ages 
were fou^d to be able to read, and 66*5 per cent, to write. 80 per cent, 
of the adult population over 20 years old could write. Over 90 per cent. 
of children from 10 to 19 years, and over 24 per cent, of children from 5 
to nine could read. Over 87 per cent, from 10 to 19 years old, and 19 
per cent, from 5 to 9 years old could write. The dwelling houses num- 
bered 855,555, of which 81 per cent, were of wood, 15 per cent, of brick, 
and 3 per cent, of stone. The average number of inhabitants for each 
house was 5*6. The average number of i)ersons to a family was 5*2. 
Prince Edward Island had the largest families, viz., 5*8 persons to each 
family. Quebec had 5*5 to each family. The N. W. Territories had the 
smallest, 4*6. 

Cheese — See Dairymen's Convention. 

Cheese Factory— The first in the Canadian territories bordering on the eastern 
foot-hills of the Rockies was established in the season of 1888. In May, 
1897, there were 60 cheese factories in Manitoba and 30 creameries. In 
the North- West Territories there were 19 creameries, of which 1 5 were 
under the management of the Minister of Agriculture, Hon. Mr. Fisher. 

Chirf Justices —The first was Jonathan Belcher, Chief Justice of Nova Scotia, 
appointed October, 1754. The first Chief Justice of Quebec, was William 
Gregory, appointed August, 1764 ; of Upper Canada (King's Bench), 
William Osgoode, appointed July, 1792 ; of New Brunswick, George 
Ludlow, appointed November, 1784; of Prince Edward - Island, John 
Duport, appointed September, 1770 ; of Manitoba, Alexander Morris, 
appointed July, 1872 ; of Vancouver Island, David Cameron, appointed 
1S53 ; of British Columbia, Matthew B. Begbie, appointed 1859. The 
first Chief Justice of Canada was W. B. Richards, appointed 8th October, 

1875. 

Chinese Commission—A Royal Commission to examine into the question of 
Chinese immigration into Canada was appointed 4th July, 1884. The 
members composing the Commission were Hon. J. A. Chapleau, 
Secretary of State, and Hon. J. H. Gray, one of the Judges of the Supreme 
Court of British Columbia. Their report, with the evidence, was presented 
to Parliament in the Session of 1885. N. F. Davin was the Secretary of 
the Commission. 

Chinese Immigration Act, Z885— -First of its kind in Canada imposed a tax 
of $50 a head on Chinese entering the Dominion, exempting tourists, mer- 
chants, men of science and students from the tax, and also (by amendment 
of 1887) the wife, being a Chinese, of any person not of Chinese origin. 

Christian Alliance— First convention in Canada held at Hamilton, February 
3rd, 1889. Its members believe in physical healing by the power of faith. 

Christian Endeavourers— First meeting in Canada, held in Montreal, July 
5th, 1893. Fifteen thousand delegates from all countries attended. Roman 
Catholic residents, as well as Protestant, opened their houses to the dele- 
gates. Mayor Desjardins delivered the address of welcome. Throughout 



First tHiKos IK CANAbA. 41 

the world there are about 47,000 circles, and 300,000 members. The 
meeting of 1897 was held in San Francisco, U. S. A., July ist. 
Church — The first church edifice erected in Canada, was built by the Huguenot / 
De Monts, in 1604, on an island in Passamaquoddy Bay, New Brunswick.NC;^ 
Its supporting pillars were living trees. The first Roman Catholic church// 
in Nova Scotia, was built in Port Royal, in 1608. The first Roman ^f 
Catholic church in Quebec, was that of Notre Dame de la Victoire, 
built in 161 5. The first church in Ontario was built by the Mohawks 
who still preserve the communion service presented to the tribe by (Jueen 
Anne, in 1 7 10. The first celebration of the Divine offices according to 
the Church of England, in this Western world, was held in Newfoundland, 
Sir Humphrey Gilbert, on August 4th, 1583, in the Harbour of St. Johns, 
then issuing the first proclamation and declaring that the Church of Eng- 
land should be the accepted religious settlement When Nova Scotia 
became English in 17 10, the first Church of England service of which there >/ 
is record was held in the Garrison church, at Annapolis, October loth, ^ 
1 7 10, Rev. John Harrison, the Military Chaplain, being the officiating 
clergyman. In 1749 two clergymen of the Church of England were sent 
out with the first body of English settlers who founded Halifax. The first 
church in connection with this denomination (outside of the Garrison -t 
church in Annapolis) of Christians in Canada, was St. Paul's, Halifax, ' 
N.S., erected in 1750 and still used. The first in Quebec was at Berthier, 
built by the Seignior Cuthbert in 1786. Rev. Dr. Deslisle, a Church of 
England clergyman, was brought out from England by the few churchmen 
settled in Montreal in 1776, in which year he commenced the first register 
of his congregation. The services were held in the R^collet's chapel, 
loaned for the purpose. For 20 years the Protestant congregation of Mon- 
treal, as it was called, worshipped in the Recollet's chapel at hours when 
the chapel was not required for mass. The first Episcopal conference of 
the Protestant church in Quebec, was held in the R^coUet church, Quebec 
city, 5th August, 1789, on which occasion Bishop Inglis held a confirma- 
tion, the first in Quebec. The first Protestant dissenting church in Canada, v ^ 
was built in Hali£uc, N.S., in 1751. The Imperial authorities laid the ' '^ 
foundations of St. Paul's church for adherents of the Established Church 
of England, in Hali^u, and before that edifice was completed they laid 
the foundations of an equally spacious church for Protestant dissenters. Its 
first minister was Rev. Aaron Cleveland, who ministered for four years to 
a congregation composed of Congregationalists, Presbyterians, German 
Lutherans, Wesleyans and others. Rev. Mr. Cleveland (an ancestor of 
ex-President Cleveland of the United States) formed the nucleus of a 
library, the present library of St. Matthew's church as it is now called. 
Its original name was ist Protestant Dissenting church, then Mather's 
church, after a celebrated New England divine, and finally, after the Pres- 
byterians obtained control, St. Matthew's church, which latter designation 
appears upon the minutes for the first time on the 8th Decemher, 181 5. 
In 1769 there were in Nova Scotia nine Protestant dissenting churches, 
six of which subsequently became Presbyterian, and the others Congrega- 
tional ; so Presbyterianism and (Congregationalism bad one common cradle 
in Nova Scotia. The first Presbyterians of Montreal worshipped for some 
time in the R6collet's church, and when the congregation moved they pre- 
sented the chapel with candles for the high altar and wine for the mass, as 
the Recollet's "politely refused to take any remuneration." The first 
Presbyterian chuich in Montreal was St. Gabriel's church, the centenary 



A 



42 First Things in Canada. 

celebration of which took place Mardi 12th, 1886, though it was really 
more the centenary of the first Presbyterian service than of the church 
x^- , edifice, which was opened for public worship in 1792. 
^ ^.^ The oldest Baptist church in Canada is in Sackville, New Brunswick. 
\\. was built in 1763, the year in which Acadia and New France became 
^^' permanent possessions of the British Crown. Governor Lawrence of Nova 
Scotia, soon after the Peace of Paris (1763), issued a proclamation offer- 
ing full religious and civil liberty to all who desired to become residents of 
Nova Scotia, in which Province the present Province of New Brunswick 
was then included. A company of Baptists of Massachusetts took advant- 
age of the offer, went to Tantramar (as Sackville was at that time called), 
and secured a large grant of land. This was the beginning of the Baptist 
denomination in the Maritime Provinces. 

The first Lutheran church in Canada was built in Halifax in 1761, and 
is still in existence. The first in Upper Canada was the Lutheran church 
in the Township of Williamsburgh, County of Dundas. It was dedicated 
in 1790. Its first pastor was Samuel Schewerdfeger, who came from 
Albany, New York. 

The first Methodist church in what is now Canada was built in Sack- 
ville, N.B., 1790. The first in Ontario was erected near the south shore 
of Hay Bay, Township of Adolphustown. It was begun in the spring of 
1792, and finished early in the summer of the same year. The cost was 
>fio8, Halifax currency. William Losee, the first regular MethcKiist 
preacher in Upper Canada, was the pastor, and in this church the first 
regular class meeting was organized. Near by the first camp meeting was 
held.' The first Methodist church built in Halifax, N.S., was ih 1792, 
and was called Zoar — the congregation having been turned out of their 
temporary building by a hostile owner. The first stone Methodist church 
was built in Montreal in 1807-9, and stood upon St. Sulpice street. The 
first service held in Victoria, B.C., was on February 13th, 1859. The 
corner stone of the first Methodist church on the Pacific slope of Canada, 
was laid i5th August, 1859. 

The census of 1891 showed that there were 10,480 church edifices in 
Canada— sin increase of 1,828 over 1881. In 1891, there were 3,339 
Methodist churches, 1786 Roman Catholic, 1764 Presbyterian, 1672 
Church of England, 1208 Baptists, and 651 churches belonging to other 
denominations. Canada has 22 churches to each 10,000 of the inhabitants, 
or one church for every 452 persons. The Roman Catholic denomination 
has a church for each group of 1,115 adherents ; the Methodists one for 
each group of 253 adherents ; Anglicans one for every 386 ; Presbyterians 
one for every 428 ; Baptists one for every 239. There were at last census 
633 churches in Canada, west of Ontario ; 197 being in B. Columbia, 291 
in Manitoba and 145 in the North- West Territories: The number of 
churches in the three western regions increased in ten years by 378 or 144 
per cent., while in the provinces east of Manitoba the increase was 1450, 
or about 19 per cent. There was a church for each 500 of the population 
ofCanadain 1881. 

+ Church of England Annuls— The first Colonial See established in the British 
^ Empire was that of Nova Scotia, 1787. Its first Bishop was Right Rev. 
Dr. Charles Inglis, who had spiritual charge of all British North America 
in behalf of the Church of England. In 1793, ^^e Canadas were erected 
into a separate See, Right Rev. Dr. Mountain being placed in charge with 
the designation of Bishop of Quebec. In 1839 the See of Toronto was 



I^'IRST tHlNGS IN CaKaDA. 43 

established, its jurisdiction being conterminous with the then boundaries of 
Canada West. Its first Bishop was Right Rev. Dr. John Strachan. Dur- 
ing the past 60 years Upper Canada (Ontario) has been divided into five 
Sees ; Toronto, 1839 ; Huron, 1857 ; Ontario, 1861 ; Atgoma, 1873 ; 
Niagara, 1875 ; and Ottawa, 1896. New Brunswick became a See 
independent of Nova Scotia in 1845, Right Rev. Df. John Medley being 
appointed its first Bishop. Montreal became an independent See in 1850, 
and was placed under charge of Bishop Fulford. Prince Edward Island 
remains attached to Nova Scotia as an Archdeaconry. Iti 1849, Rupert's 
Land received its first Bishop, Right Rev. Dr. Anderson. It has been 
divided into the See of Moosonee, 1872 ; Saskatchewan, 1874 ; Mackenzie 
River, 1874 ; Qu*Appelle, 1884 ; and Athabaska, 1884. In 1859 British 
Columbia received its first Bishop, Right Rev. Dr. Hills. In 1079 it was 
divided into two Sees : New Westminster, Right Rev. Dr. Sillitoe, Bishop ; 
and Caledonia, Rip^ht Rev. Dr. Ridley, Bishop. The first Anglican 
ckrgyman who ministered In Upper Canada was Rev. Dr. John Stuart, a 
United Empire Loyalist of Virginian birth, who arrived in 1786. With 
Joseph Brant he translated the I^ayer-Bc»ok into the Mohawk Unguaee. 
In 1817 the first Bible and Prayer- Book Society was established. In 1818 
the Society was divided into two, one becoming a Bible Society which was 
the original of the Upper Canada Bible Society. In 1841 a Church of 
England Tract Society was formed in Toronto, and in -the same year a 
Theological College in Cobourg, afterwards merged in Trinity College. 
The Church Society of the Diocese of Toronto was incorporated in 1842, 
and merged in the Synod of the Diocese in 187Q. In 18^1 Bishop Strachan 
invited lay delegates from the various parishes to meet with the clergy and 
discuss matters relating to the common welfare of the Church, thus inau- 
guiatin^ a memorable change in the constitution, which, after successive 
years of successfiil showing became, in 1857, under Act of the Legislature, 
a legally constituted Church of England Synod, the first election taking 
place in 1858. The Bishops were for the first time electei by votes of 
clergy and laity in 1857. As late &s 1857, Bishops had ^ go to England 
lor consecration ; since that date they have been consecrated in Canada. 
The Bishop of Ontario was the last (1862) to receive Imperial Letters 
Patent of appointment after election. The Church Woman's Mission Aid 
Society was formed in 1878 ; the Church of England Temperance Society 
and the Girls' Friendly Society in 1882. The first Church Congress was 
held in Hamilton, June 7th, 1883, and the second in 1&84. The Society 
of the White Cross Army was founded in 1886. The Cffeurch of England 
Jubilee for Ontario was celebrated in Toronto in November, 1889, being 
the 50th anniversary of the first Bishop of Upper Canada^ In September,^ 
1893, the General Synod of the Church in the Dominion was formed in 
Toronto, and the Metropolitans of Canada and Rupert's Land were made 
Archbishops, the former Provincial Synods maintaining their autonomy. 
The first Archbishops were Right Rev. Dr. Lewis and Right Rev. Dr. 
Machray. 

The census of 1891 gave the Anglican Church in Canada 646,059 
adherents. By provinces these were distributed : — 

British Columbia. . « . 23,619 New Brunswick .... 43,095 

Manitoba 30,852 Nova Scotia 64,410 

N. W, Territories. .. 13,008 Prince Edward I'd. . 6,646 
Ontario 385»999 Quebec 75i472 



44 ^IRST tniNGS iN CxNAbA. 

Church i^nnats— Methodist— constitutional history of Canadian Methodism. 

Methodism introduced into Newfoundland 1765 

Nova Scotia for the first time finds a place on the Minutes of John 

Wesley's Conference 1 785 

First meeting of Ministers of Eastern Provinces for conferential pur- 
poses 1 786 

Nova Scotian Methodism under charge of the New York Conference . . . 1 791 
Methodism introduce into Upper Canada by the Methodist Episcopal 

Church 1 791 

First Class-meeting organized in St. John, N.B., 28th September 1791 

First Class-meeting organized in Prince Edward Island 1 794 

Relations with the United States severed and British North America 
Methodism placed under the British Conference as a missionary annex. 1799 

Methodism introduced into Lower Canada I799 

VVesleyan Methodism introduced into Lower Canada 1815 

Missionary Society organized in Montreal 1819 

First Session of the Upper Canada Conference of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church 1824 

Amicable separation of the Upper Canada Conference of the Methodist 

Episcopal Church from the parent body in the United States 1828 

Beginning of the work of the Primitive Methodist Church in Canada 1830 

Beginning of the work of the Bible Christians in Prince Edward Island 

and Upper Canada 183 1 

, Union between the Wesle^an Conference in England and the larger 

part of the Methodist Episcopal Conference of Upper Canada 1833 

New Connection Methodist Church introduced into Canada 1837 

Union of the Western Conference in Canada and the parent body of 

England severed 1841 

Union reformed and continued till 1874 1847 

Primitive Methodist Conference organized in Canada 1853 

Lower Canada Wesleyan Missionary District united with Wesleyan 

Methodist Church of Canada 1854 

Organization of Wesleyan Conference (affiliated to the British Con- 
ference) under the name of the Conference of Eastern British 

America 1855 

Methodism introduced into British Columbia. ...» 1S59 

Union of Wesleyan Methodist Church of Canada, the Wesleyan Metho- 
dist Church of Eastern British North America and the New Connec- 
tion Methodist Church of Qinada, forming the Wesleyan Methodist 

Church of Canada 1874 

Union of the Methodist Episcopal Church, the Printitive Methodist 
Church and the Bible Christians with the Methodist Church of 

Canada, September 5th 1883 

British Columbia Methodist Conference held its first session May nth. . 1887 
The census of 1891 gave the number of Methodists in Canada as 839,815 ; 
of Bible Christians, 7,183, and others 767. These were distributed by 
provinces :— 

British Columbia.... 14,298 New Brunswick ... . 35,494 

Manitol». 28,437 Nova Scotia « 54»I97 

N. W. Territories. . . 7,932 Prince Edward I'd. . 13,596 

Ontario :. . 653,993 Quebec 39*544 

Church Annals— Presbyterian— In 1750-52 a Protestant Dissenters* meet* 
ing house was built in Halifax by the Imperial Authorities, and for some 



First Things in Canada. 45 

years it was a joint Presbyterian and Congregational Church. Rev. Aaron 
Cleveland, a Congregational Minister from Connecticut, conducted ihe*^ 
services for a time. The Presbyterians became the dominant force and 
the Protestant Dissenters* meeting house ultimately became St. Matthew's 
church in connection with the Church of Scotland. . ' 

Col. Alexander McNutt, a north of Ireland Presbyterian, having secured 
grants of land in the township of Onslow, attracted to the district immi- 
grants who were chiefly Pi«sbyterians. The papulation increased and in 
1764 decided to have a Minister. Application wasniiideto the Presbytery / 
of New Brunswick, in the Province of New Jersey, add, in response, Rev..-f- 
John Lyon was sent late in 1764, being the- first Presbyterian Minister to 
" wag bis pow in a pulpit "in Nova Scotia, or in any part of Canada as it 
is to-day. ■ ' _ — 

The ' first ordination of a Presbyterian Minister in the Dominion took 
place in the' Haliiax Protestant Dissenters* meeting house on the 3rd July, | 
1770. The ceremony was performed by two Congregational and two 
Presbyterian Ministers. The candidate was ordained as Pastor of the 
Dutch Calvinistic Presbyterian congregation of- Lunenburg. His name was - | 
Bruin Romcas Comingoe. His congregation was a Huguenot colony. 

In 1786 the the first Presbytery in Nova Scotia was formed at Truro. 
In 1795 the Presbytery of Pictou was formed. 

In 1817 the first Synod was formed at Truro, by a union of the Presby-.. - 
teries of Truro (7 ministers), Pictou (8), and Halifax (4). At the same 
time the united body assumed the name of the Presbyterian Church of 
Nova Scotia. Burghers, Antiburghers and Established Church joining 
together. In 1820 a Presbytery was formed in New Brunswick, in connec- 
tion with the Synod of Nova Scotia, and in 1821 the Presbytery of Prince 
Edward Island in connection with Nova Scotia was formed. 

In the^ other Provinces the planting of Presbyterianism began by the 
organization of a Presbyterian congrejp^ation in Quebec city, in 1759, 
immediately after the capitulation. Its first pastor (1765) was Rev. George 
Henry. He was a Minister of the Church of Scotland, had been a military 
chaplain, and was present at the capture of Quebec. The congregation 
met for worship in an apartment of the Jesuits College till 1807. 

The first Presbyterian Minister of Montreal was Rev. John Bethune, 
1786. He held the first Presbyterian service in Montreal on 12th March, 
1786, and removed from there after a year to Glengarry, becoming the first 
Presbyterian Minister in Upper Canada. The church in Montreal was 
connected with the Presbytery of Albany, till 1793, when the Presbytery 
of Montreal was formed as the first Presbytery in Upper and Lower 
Canada. 

In 183 1 a Synod of the Presbyterian Church of Upper and Lower 
Canada in connection with the Church of Scotland, was organized with 19 
members on the roll. The united Presbytery organized as the United 
Synod of Upper Canada. 

In 1832 the Presbytery of the Reformed Presbyterian Church of Nova "^ 
Scdtla and New Brunswick organized. 

In 1833 the Presbytery of Niagara was formed. It consisted of ministers 
from the United States. The Presbytery of New Brunswick and of Nova 
Scotia, in connection with the Church of Scotland, was organized in the 
same year. 

In 1834 a missionary Presbytery of the Secession Church was organized 
for the Cinadas, 



4|6 First Things in Canada. 

In 1835 the Presbytery of New Brunswick organized as a Synod. 

In 1836 the Presbytery of Stamford, of the Associate Church of North 
North America, had its being. 

In 1840 the Synod of 183 1 was united with the United Synod of Upper 
Canada. 

In 1844 came the disruption of the Church of Scotland, the seceding 
^ Ministers organizing the Synod of the Free Presbyterian Church, both in 
/ Canada and. Nova Scotia, that of New Brunswick being in 1845. 

In 1847 union was effected between the Associate Secession Synod and 
the Relief Senate, forming the Synod of the United Presbyterian Church. 

In i860 came the union of the Synod o( Nova Scotia and the Synod of 
Free Churcih of Nova Scotia, under the name of the Synod of the Presby- 
terian Church of the Lower Provinces of British North America. 

In 1861 the union of the Free and the United Presbyterians of Canada, 
became an accomplished fact ; the united bodies taking the name of the 
Canada Presbyterian Church. 

In 1866 the Synod of New Brunswick (Free Church) united with the 
Synod of the Lower Provinces. 

In 1869 came the organization of the Presbytery of Manitoba, (John 
Black, first Presbyterian Minister in the North-West Territories, arrived 
at the Red River in 1851). 

In 1870 first General Assembly of the Canada Presbyterian Church, 
met June 7th- 1 6th. 

On June 15th, 1875, general union of the Presbyterian bodies throughout 
the Dominion was consummated, the name adopted being *' The Presby- 
terian Church in Canada." 

The census of 189 1 gave the Presbyterians 755,326 adherents in Canada, 
distributed bv provinces : — 

British Columbia. . . . 15,284 New Brunswick. . . • 40,639 

Manitoba 40,001 Nova Scotia 108,952 

N. W. Territories. . . 12,507 Prince Edward I'd. . 33,162 

Ontario 453f '47 Quebec 5^y^73 

] Church Annals— Roman Catholic —The Jesuits came to Port Royal (Nova 
Scotia) in 161 1, and began to christianize the Indians of Acadia. 

The R^collets, the first teaching order of the church to arrive in Canada, 
came to Quebec in May, 161 5. 

The Jesuits arrived at Quebec in 1625, left in 1629 on the capture of 
Quebec, and returned in 1632. 

The Ursulines arrived at Quebec, August, 1639, and the Hospitali^res 
in Montreal in August, 1639. 

The S\ilpicians arrived in Montreal, July 29th, 1657. 

On July 5th, 1658, Canada was made a Vicariate Apostolic. 

Mgr. Francois de Laval was consecrated Vicar Apostolic of New France 
and Bishop of Petr^e, December 8th, 1658. He landed in Quebec, June 
1 6th, 1659. 

Diocese of Quebec founded October ist, 1674, and Mgr. Laval became 
first Bishop. His diocese comprehended all the French possessions in 
North America. 

Chapter of Quebec, formed November 6th, 1684. (The last Session of 
this Chapter was held December 3rd, 1772,) 

In 1760 three grand Vicars were chosen to administer ecclesiastical! 
affairs, M. Joseph Perrault, for Three Rivers ; M. Eiienne de Montgolfier,| 
for Montreal ; and M. Jean 0» Briand, for Quebec, . 



First Things in Canada. 47 

Beginning with 1818, a series of appointments evidenced the develop- 
ment of the church organization to suit the requirements of the times. 

The diocese of Quebec was erected tentatively into an ecclesiastical . 
Province. Edmund Burke was appointed Vicar Apostolic of Nova Scotia, r^ 
July 5th, 1818 ; Alexander McDonell, Vicar Apostolic for Upper Canada, 
l^ecerober 31st, 1820 ; Bernard McEachran, Vicar Apostolic for ' New ^ 
Brunswick, Prince Edward Island and Cape Breton, jMpe 17th, 1821 ; / 
and Joseph Provencher, Vicar Apostolic for the North- West, May 12th,/ 
1822 ; the first parish in which was that of St. Boniface, named after 
Boniface the Apostle and Patron Saint of German Roman Catholics. J. 
J. Lartigue was consecrated as auxiliary to the Bishop of Quebec, for the 
district of Montreal, January 21st, 1821. 

In 1841 the Chapter of Montreal was formed. 

In 1844, the Ecclesiastical Province of Quebec was definitively erected ; 
Joseph Signay, being; consecrated 1st Archbishop, July 12th, 1844. 

The first Provinaal Council was held in Quebec, in 1851. 

Jn 1874 the diocese of Quebec was subdivided into eight dioceses. 

The first Cardinal was appointed, June 7th, 1886, being Archbishop 
Taschereau. 

In 1890 there were 25 dioceses in Canada, 3 Vicariates Apostolic, and i 
Prefecture Apostolic, 2,491 Priests, 454 missions, and 1,171 parishes, &c. 

According to the census of 1891, there were in Canada, 1,992,017 
Roman Catholics, or 41.21 per cent of the whole population. 

Provinces. ^^2*^ « ^°f**. Percent, 

rruvuicca. CathoUcs. Populiidon. '^"^w**- 

British Columbia 20,843 97* ^73 21.23 

Manitoba. 29,571 152,506 13.50 

New Brunswick 1 1 5*861 321,293 36. 10 

Nova Scotia 122,452 ^50,396 27.20 

Ontario 358,300 2,114,321 17.00 

Prince Edward Island 47>o37 109,078 44*70 

Quebec 1,291,709 1,488,535 86.80 

The Territories 13,008 66,799 19.40 

Unorganized Territories.... i»336 32,168 4.15 

Upper Canada received its first Bishop in 1826. 
New Brunswick ** " ** 1843. 

Nova Scotia «* " *• 1846. 

Manitoba " " *• 1847. 

British Columbia ** " " 1847. 

Nova Scotia received its first Archbishop in 1852. 
Ontario " ** ** 1870. 

Manitoba " ** " 1871. 

Montreal »* »* " 1886. 

Ottawa " «* «* 1886. 

Qvric Loan — The first colonial city to float a civic loan at 3^ per cent. 

interest, was Montreal, 1888. Hon. Sir John Abbott, Mayor, 
Civil Engineers, Canadian Society of— The preliminary meetings for the 
formation of this Society were held in Montreal, Toronto and Ottawa in 
1886. The Society was incorporated June 23rd, 1887. The headquarters 
are in Montreal. The purposes of the Society are : to facilitate the 
acquirement and interchange of professional knowledge among its mem- 
bers, and particularly to promote the acquisition of that species of know- 
ledge which has special reference to the profession of civil engineering. 



48 First Things in Canada. 

The membership numbered 591 on ist January, 1897. The first president 
was T. C. Keefer. 

Civil Service— Board of Examiners of, established by Act of Session of 1882, 
which took effect 1st July, 1882. The first members were Dr. Thorbura 
and Messrs. DeCelles and LeSuear. 

Civil Service — Superannuation of members of the Canadian Civil Service 
was first authorized and provided by Act of Parliament, 1870. Since the 
system was put in operation, the payments have been $4,364,626, and the 
receipts from the Civil Service, $1,364,771. In 1893 an Act was passed 
authorizing the creation of a superannuation fund, No. 2. 

Clearinfi: Houae>-(See *< Banks.") 

Clergymen were excluded from holding seats in the Provincial Assembly of 
Canada by the Constitutional Act of 1791. The Union Act of 1867 and 
Parliamentary Acts of the Dominion do not exclude clergymen from seats 
in the House of Commons. Several have been members. 

Clock Factory— First established at C6te des Neiges, near Montreal, 1835. 
It was driven by water power. The proprietors were J. andW. Twiss. 
A clock factory wi^ established in Whitby, Ont., 187 1. 

Club— The first club in Canada was the " Order of Good Times." This club 
was organized in Port Royal, Nova Scotia, in 1606, by Champlain and 
L'Escarbot. Instead of a pre&ident, it had a steward at its head, and the 
office Wits held in succession by each of the fifteen persons who composed 
the membership. The head of the club for the time being did not have 
to prepare masterly discourse^ on agriculture, trade, fisheries or other 
important subjects, but his duty was the more difficult one of providing a 
better dinner than his immediate predecessors had done. One rule never 
departed from was that at each dinner there should be one new dish. Its 
organizers called it ** L'Ordre de bon temps." Poutrincourt and others 
\ famous in the early annals of the country were members. It has had 
i many successors. At present the principal clubs in Canada are the 
j Albany and the National, Toronto ; the Metropolitan and the St. JameSf 
' Montreal ; the Garrison and the Union, Quebec ; the Halifax, the Hamil- 
ton and the Vancouver in the cities of the same names ; the Manitoba club 
in Winnipeg ; the Rideau in Ottawa, and the Union, Victoria, B.C. 

Coal in British Columbia—One day in December, 1849, a Hudson's Bay I 
Company's officer in Fort Victoria, was informed by the foreman of tfai 
blacksmith's shop, that an old Nanaimo Indian chief had just stated that he 
knew where there was stuff like the white man was using, in the black- 
smith's fire. The Indian was told that if he would bring some pieces of 
the '* stuff" he should have his gun repaired free and receive a bottle of 
rum. The Chief reappeared in the following April (1850) with his canoe 
laden with coal. The prospecting party found the coal where the City of 
Nanaimo now stands. 

In 1874 the production of coal from the Nanaimo mines amounted to 
81,000 tons, and in 1896 to 1,002,268 tons. 

Coal in Nova Scotia— First recorded mention of is in the year 1654. It 
was gathered in Nova Scotia at a very early date without mining, mentios 
being made of it in 1721. Coal was shipped to France from Cape Bretoc 
in 1743, ^ stated in letter from M. Duchambon to the French Minister. 
Mention is made in a letter of M. Desherbiers, Louisburg, to the French 
Minister, dated September 30th, 1749, of the working and use of coal got 
out by the English near Indian Cove, Cape Breton. Coal was mined is 
Sydney, C. B., by license from the Crown in 1785. In 1798 the coal in Pictoui 



t*IRST tniNGS IN (JANAbA. 49 

cbimty attracted the attention of the authorities, and Admiral Sawyer 
ordered a small cargo to be sent to Halifax for the use of the Admiralty. 
In 1807, licenses to dig for sale were granted by the Crown. A demand 
for Pictou coal sprang up during the war of 181 2, and in 1 81 5, 650 
chaldrons were exported. In the year 1825, the British Government 
leased all the reserved mines of Nova Scotia lor sixty years to the Duke of 
York. The Duke's lease was transferred to Messrs. Rundell, Bridge & 
Rundell, London, Jewellers, in payment of his debts, and this firm trans- 
ferred it to the General Mining Association. This association purchased 
some leases held by other persons in Pictou county, and in Sydney, Cape 
Breton, and thus became possessed of all the coal mines in Nova Scotia. 
In prosecution of their work they ettiployed two steamers, a small one 
built in Pictou for the river and a larger one built in England for more 
extended trips. The Pictou-built one was launched, 17th July, 1830. In 
1 830, the General Mining Association resolved to employ railways. The 
first was planned in that year ; work was begun in 1836, and the first rail- 
way in Nova Scotia was opened 29th September, 1839. It was about six 
miles long. It had three locomotives — the Sampson, the Albion and the 
Hercules. One of them, the Albion, was exhibited at the Chicago world's 
fair, 1893. In 1856 the monopoly of the General Mining Association was 
brought to a close through the efforts of Hon. J. W. Johnston and Hon. 
(afterwards Sir) Adams Archibald. 

The total coal sales of Nova Scotian mines in 1868 amounted to 458,624 
tons, and in 1896, to 2,047,133 tons. The growth of inter-provincial 
travel is seen in the fact, that in 1869 the coal sales to neighbouring 
Provinces were 102,814 tons, somewhat under one-fourth of the whole 
output, and in 1896 they amounted to 1,204,589 tons, or more than half 
the whole output. 

Coastio(^ Trade — Provision made for reciprocity in coasting trade, 187a 
Italy (1873), Germany (1874), the Netherlands (1874), Sweden and Norway 
(1874), Austria-Hungary (1876), Denmark (1877), Belgium (1879), the 
Argentine Republic (1881), reciprocating, were for the first time admitted 
to the privileges of Canada's coasting trade, in the years mentioned, under 
an Act (now Chapter 83, Consolidated Statutes, Canada), which the 
Parliament of Canada was empowered to pass by Imperial Act, 32 Vic. , 
Cap. II, an Act which came into operation in Canada, on 23rd (October, 
1869, ^ Cjovernor-General's Proclamation. 

Cotating Tnuie Statistics of Canada were first collected in 1876. In that 
year the tonnage arrived and departed in the Ontario Division was 
3> 3^*588 tons : in the Gulf and Atlantic Division, 6,81 2,, 344 tons, and 
in the Pacific Division, 128,007 tons, making a total of 10,300,939. In 
1896 the tonnage employed was, in the Ontario Division, 11,687,217 ; in 
the Gulf and Atlantic Division, 12,908,859, and in the Pacific Division, 
2,835,677, making a total of 27,431,753 tons. It will be seen that in the 
twenty years the tonnage of coasters employed in the Gulf and Atlantic 
Division increased so greatly as to exceed the total tonnage employed in 
the coasting trade of all the Divisions in 1876. The tonnage of steamers 
employed in 1896 amounted to 22,514,499 tons, and of sailing vessels to 

^ 4,9x7,254 tons. 

Coin — First Canadian coin issued was in 1858. 

College Upper Canadian— Was founded by Sir John Olbome, in 182Q, after 
the model of Elisabeth College in the Island of Guernsey, and was opened 
in fanuary, 1831. 
4 



(» " 


New South Wales. 


(( 


Cape Colony. 


(( 
(( 


South Africa. 
New Zealand. 


« 


Victoria. 


(( 


Queensland. 


1 . • it 


Canada. 



50 First Things in Canada. 

Colonial Conference— The first conference between the Colonies of the British 
Empire was held in Ottawa, opening on the 28th June, 1894 ; accredited 
to the conference were : — 
The Earl of Jersey, representing the Imperial Government. 

Hon. F. B. Sutor, ^' " 

Sir Henry de Villiers, ] 
Sir Charles MUb, 
Ian H. Hofmeyer, J 
Hon. Thomas Playford, 
Alfred Lee-Smith, . 
Sir Henry Dixon, 1 
Hon. N. Fitagerald, 
Hon. Simon Fraser, J 
Hon. J. Thynne, \ 
Hon. Wm. Forrest,/ 
Hon. M. Bowell, 
Hon. Sir Adolpbe Caron, 
Hon. George Foster, 
Sandford Fleming, 

The discussions were mainly confined to three subjects specified by the 
Canadian Government when inviting the conference in 1888, viz., (a) the 
construction of a submarine cable, from Vancouver, Canada, to Australia; 
(d) the establishment of a quick mail service between Great Britain and 
Australasia via Canada ; and, {c) the trade relations of the Colonies with 
Great Britain and one another. 

Resolutions were passed, (i) that a customs union was advisable by 
which trade within the Empire should be placed on a more favourable 
footing than that carried on with foreign countries ; that until the Mother 
: country could see her way clear to enter such customs union with the 
Colonies, these should aim to place each other on a more favoured customs 
tarifif basis. (2) That improved steamship communication was desirable as 
of paramount importance to the development of intercolonial trade and to 
the unity and stability of the Empire. (3) That immediate steps should 
be taken to provide telegraphic communications by cable, free from foreign 
control, between Canada and Australia. 

E^rly in 1896 Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell and Mr. (now Sir) S. Fleming 
were appointed to represent Canada, at a Pacific cable conference with 
the Imperial Government. This was adjourned and met again November 
9th, 1896, Sir Donald Smith and Hon. A. G. Jones, P.C, representing 
Canada ; and Sir Saul Samuel and Mr. Duncan Gillies, representing 
Australia ; Lord Selborne, Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, pre- 
siding, and Mr. S. Fleming attending as a cable expert. 

Conferences were held in connection with the Diamond Jubilee, 1S97, 
and the Premiers of several of the self-governing dependencies discussed 
the subjects with Right Hon. Joseph Chamberlain, Her Majesty's Secretary 
of State for the Colonies; one result being notice, on 30th July, 1897, of 
denunciation of the Treaties with Belgium and Germany to take effect in 
twelve months from that date. 
Colonial Representatives— First formal reception of represenutives of the 
the self-governing colonies (Canada included) by Earl Derby, the Secretary 
of State for the Colonies, January, 1883. Sir A. T. Gait represented 
Canada as High Commissioner. The second formal reception was in 
Jubilee June, (1897), when Right Hon. Joseph Chamberlain, the Secretary 



First Things in Canada. 51 

of State for the Colonies, received Right Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier, 
G.C.M.G., Premier of Canada, and all the Premiers of the self-governing 
Colonies of the Empire. 

Combines Committee first appointed in 1888. The results of their labours 
were : ist, a blue book of 750 pages ; and and, an Act relating to trade 
combinations, passed in Session of 1889. 

Commercial Travellers* Association of Canada, founded in Toronto^ 
1 87 1. Included in the five Associations in the Dominion are 5,000 mem- 
bers. The Commercial Travellers' Association, Montreal, is an off-shoot 
from the Commercial Travellers' Association of Canada, and was organized 
2ist February, 1875. Andrew Robertson was the istpreadent. In 1894 
the member^ip was 2,314. The objects of the Association are : {a) to 
promote the welfare and interests of its members by making provision 
against sickness, misfortune, accident or death, and reheving the widows, 
orphan children or representatives of deceased members ; (?) to promote 
the intellectual and material welfare of its members. 

Conuneicial Union — Genesis of: 

1. Ira Gould brought before the Montreal Board of Trade a proposed 
memorial to Lord Elgin, Governor-General of Canada. The gist of 
the memorial was the advocacy of *' complete and entire free trade 
with the United States, the only practicable way of securing which is 
by the adoption, by the Provincial Government, of the American tariff 
of duties on all importations from sea, and by the free admission of 
the products and manufactures of each country into the other." The 
chief argument advanced by Mr. Gould was the difference in the value 
of feirm lands. He said " you will find improved &rms on the Ameri- 
can side worth from $25 to $50 an acre. On the Canadian side of 
equally eood soil, under equally good climate, they are worth from 
$3 to $15 an acre.** The discussion which followed is contained in 
the Montreal Gazette of February i8th and following days. Gould's 
proposition was negatived. For, 4 ; against, 18. Mr. Andrew Allan 
occupied the chair 1852 

2. Motion in Board of Trade, Montreal, that any Treaty of Reciprocity 
with the United States should embrace an entirely free trade in manu^ 
factures as well as in natural products. Lost — 15 against j 6 for. . . . 1852 

3. The Montreal Gazette (February 22nd) commenting on Gould's pro- 
posal, said : " It is no less a proposal than a complete transfer to the 
United States of the power to regulate the internal commerce now 
held by Canada, and the external commerce now held by Canada and 
Great Britain jointly. We know of no instance in the history of diplo- 
macy where a people forming a portion of one empire have proposed 
to denude themselves, and depnve their parent Government, of all 
authority in the levying of forei^ taxes, and to ^ve it to a fcMreign 
and rival empire ; at the same time that the political sovereignty and 
the obligation and expense of defense rest still on the parent 
country.' 1852 

4. A Select Committee composed of Hon. H. Merritt, Hon. Mr. Cayley, . 
Solicitor-General Rose, Messrs. Dorion, Simard, Buchanan, Malcolm 
Cameron and Howland, appointed by the Canadian Legislature, 
reported 27th July, 1858, recommending '* that the principle of reci- 
procity be extended to manufactures, the registration of Canadian and 
United States built vessels, and to the shipping and coasting trade, in 

the same manner as to the productions of the soil." 1858 



54 t*IRST tntNGS IN CAKAbA. 

5. Isaac Buchanan, one of the above committee, during the Liberal Party 
Convention held at Toronto in 1859, wrote a series of letters suggest- 
ing what the policy of the Convention should be. In one occurs the 
following : '* Let it therefore be resolved that for our commercial 
system the principle should be adopted by Canada of an American 
ZoUverein, or in other words, Free Trade with America^ but not with 
Europe, " 1851 

6. James W. Taylor, an agent appointed by the Treasury Department of 
the United States to investigate the workings of the Reciprocity Treaty 
of 1854, threw out a suggestion (which a subsequent committee (1862) 
said ** has long engaeed the attention of many intelligent men on both 
sides of the frontier ) ** to extend the principle of reciprocity to manu- 
factures as it now exists in raw and unmaniufactured products, and to 
establish an American ZoUverein, each country adopting the policy of 
unlimited free trade with the other. " i86( 

7. The Oswego Board of Trade and the Chicago Board of Trade advo- 
cated a ZoUverein in substitution of the Treaty of 1854 i8(( 

8. The Committee of Commerce of the House of Representatives (United 
States Congress), through Mr. Ward, urged the suppression of the 
Reciprocity Treaty of 1854, and the substitution of a ZoUverein, Toll- 
Alliance, or Customs Union iS6i 

9. Hon. A. T. Gait, as Minister of Finance, reported to His Excellency 
the Governor-General, that having had referred to him the report of 
the House Committee (United States) on Reciprocity, and the 
memorial of the Chamber of Commerce of St. Paul's (Minn.), he can- 
not recommend His Excellency to submit the subject of a ZoUverein 
to the favourable consideration of Her Majesty's Government 186: 

10. W. H. Seward, Secretary of the United States Treasury, proposed a 
ZoUverein on the ground that if a perfect union could not be effected, 
the plan of a ZoUverein is a near approach to it ; *' A ZoUverein l^as 
been successful in Germany. Under its influence Kingdoms, States 
and Principalities have been blended into one" 186 

1 1 E. H. Derby, in a report to the United States Government on the 
relations of Canada with the United States, proposed a ZoUverein. 
He asked : *' Is not America for the Americans, and are not Asia, 
Africa and Australia sufBcient for Great Britain ? " i8fi 

12. Ira Gould, in 1868, wrote a letter in which he modified his views of 
1852 very considerably. He advocated Reciprocity as thus defined : 
Complete free trade in breadstufis, no matter in what country grown. 
The same in all other kinds of food for man or beast ; also coal and 
iron ore, and perhaps pig iron and puddled bars, these being considered 
raw material for purposes of manufacture ; and, finallv, wood, hemp, 
flax and cotton. For all manufactures made on either side of the 
Une from material grown or produced in either country, a small duty, 
say 5 per cent, ad vaL The same duty to apply to furs and all kinds 
of oils, lumber and many kindred articles iS 

13. Hon. Mr. Huntingdon, March 1 6th, 1870, moved in the Canadian 
Commons : ''That a continental system of commercial intercourse, or 
other commercial arranjg[ements, brining under one generiCl customs 
union, with this Dominion, the countnes chiefly interested in its trade, 
would tend to expand our commerce, develope its resources, and 
multiply our productions ; that such a system should place in a posi- 
tion of commercial equaUty and reciprocity aU the countries being 
parties thereto/* This was lost, 100 to 58 i^ 



First Things in Canada. 53 

4. J. N. Learned, appointed by the United States Government to inves- 
tigate the relations of Canada and the United States, wrote : " No 
reciprocal trade relations are practicable unless they comprehend such 
an adjustment of the trade that the Provinces shall not buy what they 
have to buy in Great Britain." If annexation could not be had, he 
suggests a ZoUverein or Customs Union as leading to annexation. . . . 1870 

5. Hon. John Young, a Canadian Liberal, at the time chairman of the 
Canadian delegation, advocated a ZoUverein in a meeting of the 
National Board of Trade of the United States, held in St. Louis 1871 

6. Hon. John H. Gray wrote strongly against Commercial Union in a 
work entitled " Confederation" i 1872 

7. A Committee of the United States Congress de6ned a ZoUverein to 
be '' the association of a number of States for the establishment of a 
Common Customs law and a Common Customs line, with regard to 
outside countries, and the suppression of both in the intercourse of the 
States within the border line. Under the ZoUverein the same duties 
are collected everywhere on the outside frontier thus established." It 
advised that such a union would suit for the United States in respect 

to Canada 1876 

[8. A Committee of the United States Congress, appointed to consider 
the advisability of appointing Commissioners to mvestigate the best 
way of improving traide relations between Canada and the United 

States, reported in favor of Commercial Union 1880 

[9. Wharton Barker wrote a letter to James Garfield urging him to oppose 
reciprocal trade by treaty, and to advocate Commercial Union, which 
would mean for Canada if adopted "a final settlement of her con- 
tinental sympathies and her farewell to Imperial aspirations." 1880 

20. A committee of Congress reported against Reciprocity and offered 
arguments in favour of Commercial Union. .... 1884 

21. Mr. Butterworth introduced a bill into the United States Congress for 
the purpose of providing for free admission of goods from Canada, or 
what he termed '*ab^lute reciprocity "—or discrimination against 
British trade, accompanied by the pooling of revenues and the with- 
drawing of matters of tariff and taxation from the representatives of 
the Canadian people 1886 

22. The New York Chamber of Commerce passed a resolution for the 
appointment of a committee to investigate the p>ossibility of a material 
expansion of the commerce of New York with Canada by means of a 
Commercial Union. Their efforts resulted in letters from Hon. James 
Young (against), Goldwin Smith (in favour) ; and Mr. Edward Atkin- 
son, urging the purchase of Canada from Great Britain 1887 

23. E. Wiman, Goldwin Smith and others advocated Commercial Union in 
Canada, the former making many speeches in favour of it, the first 
having been delivered in Cardwell County on the 1st July, 1887* . 1887-B-9 

24. Several farmers' unions in Ontario endorse Commercial Union ., 1887 

25. Right Hon. Joseph Chamberlain in a speech delivered at Toronto said 

" separation from England must precede Commercial Union " 1887 

26. Mr. Hitt (Rep. of Congress), wrote that ** under a Commercial Union, 
with a common tariff and the border free, probably a larger part of 
the imports of Canada would enter by way of New York and the. New 
England ports, and the receipts at Canadian ports would correspond- 
ingly fall off. * * We can at any time withdraw Srom a Com- 
mercial Union if it works unfairly, and no power can l)e taken from 
Congress, or be even limited, except by the action of Congress ilself ",.1887 



54 First Things in Canada. 

27. Mr. . Edgar, M. P. Canadian Parliament, suggested that the term 
Unrestricted Reciprocity would best define the thing meant 1887 

28. Commercial Union discussed at a meeting of the Associated Cham- 
bers of Commerce of the United Kingdom. A motion was unani- 
mously adopted that the movement (Commercial Union) might have 
immense consequences on the commerce of the United Kingdom, and 
the Council of the Association were directed to watch vigilantly its 
development. February 21st 1888 

29. Hon. Senator Macdonald at a meeting of the Toronto Board of Trade 
said : ** Commercial Union meant that the millions of dollars, now 
&r beyond a hundred millions, invested in manufactures in Canada 

•would not be worth 33^^ cents on the dollar. Commercial Union 
meant ruin and ruin only.'' Senator Macdonald *s motion was carried 
unanimously li 

30. Hon. Judge Gray published in Overland Monthly an article con- 
demning 0>mmercial Union. February 1888 

31. Sir Richard Cartwright introduced a resolution in the Canadian Com- 
mons, that arrangements should be effected with the United States 
for the purpose of having full and unrestricted trade between the two 
countries .< •. 1888 

32. Resolution passed House of Representatives, but foiled to pass Senate 
of United States, authorizing President of United States to appoint 
commissioni^ to meet similar commissioners from Canada to prepare 
plans for the assimilation of customs duties and internal revenue taxa- 
tion and division of receipts under a Commercial Union, whenever it 
should be certified to him that the Government of Canada had de- 
clared a desire to secure Commercial Union « li 

33. On motion, in Canadian House of Commons, to go into Supply, Sir 
Richard Cartwright moved in amendment, 19th March, 1889 : " That 
in the present condition of affoirs, and in view of the recent action of 
the House of Representatives of the United States, it is expedient 
that steps should be taken to ascertain on what terms and conditions 
arrangements can be effected with the United States for the purpose 
of securing full and Unrestricted Reciprocity of trade therewith." 
Amendment lost — 77 yeas, 121 nays 188^ 

34. The United States House of Representatives' Committee on Foreign 
Afiairs, by unanimous vote, instructed its Chairman to report to the 
House a joint resolution to the effect that the President of the United 
States '* shall appoint three Commissioners to meet representatives of 
of the Government of Canada, whenever Canada desires to enter into 
such commercial arrangements with the United States as would result 
in the complete removal of all duties on trade between the two 
countries " 1891 

Company — ^The first chartered company to b^n business in Canada was D( 
Monts & Co., 1604. It was followed by Uie Company of the 100 Asso 
dates, 1627. 

Companies (Colonial Resptsters) Act— An Imperial Statute, which requiid 
pobate or letters of administration to be taken out, both in the Colony a» 
in the United Kingdom, in respect to the wills or estates of colonia 
shareholders holding shares on the colonial registers of banks or othe 
companies. An amendment to this Act was passed in 1889, which pro 
vides that the share of a member who shall have died domiciled elsewher 
than in the United Kingdom, shall, so far as relates to British probati 



First Things in Canada. 55 

duties, not be deemed to be part of his estate situated in the United 
Kingdom, in respect of which probate or letters of administration are to 
bej^^ranted. (S^ ''Succession Dues.") 

Co nfed emtion — ^The first notice of Confederation, as applicable to British 
North America as at present bounded, is to be found in a report made by 
Colonel Robert Morse, R.E., who was sent in 1783, at the instance of 
Sir Guy Carleton (then commander of His Majesty's forces in North 
America, with headquarters at New York), to report on the military 
defences required for Nova Scotia. In his report (1784) Colonel Morse 
says : '' In the course of this examination my mind has been strongly im- 
pressed with the idea of uniting these provinces to Canada to the advantage 
of both, since by establishing the same laws and inducing a constant inter- 
course and a mutual interest a great country may yet be raised up in North 
America." The first to propound a scheme of confederation for the 
British North American Provinces was William Smith, a loyalist who 
came to Canada and became Chief Justice in 1785. While in England in 
1784, he proposed and urged a plan for the union of the colonies. It was 
approved by the Ministry, but was not submitted to Parliament. Chief 
Justice Sewell, who in 1814 propounded a plan of union that met with the 
api^roval of Queen Vict(Mria's father, married a daughter of Chief Justice 
Smith, and thus carried forward the idea of union promulgated by Mr. 
Smith, who may be considered the great-grandftither of Confederation. 

Confederatioii — As the Confederation of the British Provinces of North 
America is the great event of recent times in Canada, the history of the 
genesis and development of the idea is given in considerable detail : — 

Order. Action. Date. 

1st. Sir Francis Nicholson propounded the idea for this continent. (His 
project was to unite all the Anglo-American Colonies in a nation, the 
object of which was the defence of these Colonies against the encroach- 
ment of the French on the North, and against the hostile Indians on 
the borders 1690 

2nd. Pownal, Hutchinson and Franklin proposed Confederation for the 
British possessions in North America 1754-55 

3rd. Joseph Galloway proposed to vest the Government in a President- 
General 1774 

4th. William Smith proposed a plan of Union but was banished and came 
to Canada as a refugee Loyalist. He became Chief Justice of Canada 
and was the grandfather of Confederation 1775 

5th. Colonel Morse proposed a Union of all British North America ** for 
the preservation of the fragments of British power on this Continent" 1783 

6th. R. J. Uniacke, in the Legislature of Nova Scotia, advocated a 
Federal Union 1809 

7th- Chief Justice Sewell propounded to His Royal Highness the Duke 
of Kent a scheme for the Federal Union of the Provinces. [The Chief 
Justice's proposal included a general representative assembly to consist 
of 30 members. In his reply to the Chief Justice, His Royal High- 
ness (our Queen's &ther) suggested that there should be but two 
divisions for local government purposes, one to consist of the two 
Canadas and the other of the four Maritime Provinces, which should, 
he thought, be formed into one union as preliminary to the greater 
union. The Duke was the first to suggest a Maritime Union. The 
Capital of the two Canadas for loc^ purposes should be Montreal, 



56 First Things in Canada. 

OunW. Action. Dati. 

he thought, and that of the fonr Maritime Provinces, either Annapolis 
Royal or Windsor, as would prove most convenient. Quebec city was, 

of course, to be the capital of the Federation.] 1814 

^th. Chiei Justice Sewell and Messrs. Robinson & Strachan prepared and 
presented, in pamphlet, to the British Government, a scheme for 
a Federal Union of the Provinces. (Chief Justice Sewell married a 
daughter of Chief Justice Smith, and was largely influenced by 

Smith. ). 1824 

9th. Neilson's Gazette, May nth, 1824, published a rumour in circulation 
in Quebec that His Majesty*s Ministers proposed to submit to Parlia- 
ment a Union of all the British Provinces in North America. The 
Canadian Spectator^ November 6th, mentions that a letter had been 
received from England, stating that a ''a system oi Confederation of 

the British North American Provinces is on the anvil." 1824 

loth. Mr. McCollogh, then publishing the Montreal Free Press ^ advocated 
in its columns a Federal Union as a ''stock" subject for editorial 

work 1825 

nth. Robert Gourlay, wrote a pamphlet in advocacy of a Federal Union. 
(Gourlay was in prison in London, owing to an assault on a Member 
of Parliament in connection with grievances against Canada. He 
wrote from ** House of Correction, Cold Bath Fields, London.") .... 1825 
1 2th. The New York Albion of 25th November, 1826, announced that Her 
Majesty's Government had formed a plan for uniting the Provinces of 

British North America into one confederate system 1826 

13th. William Lyon McKenzie advocated a Union of the Provinces in a 

speech 1831 

I4lh. The British Imperial Parliament passed a resolution in favour of a 

Union 1837 

15th. The Upper Canada Assembly and Legislative Council recommended 

a Federal Union 1838 

i6lh. Rev. Dr. Strachan wrote in favour of Union 1938 

17th. The Legislature of Nova Scotia voted against the plans proposed in 
the Upper Canada Legislature, on the ground that they had not been 

submitted to the Nova Scotia Legislature 1839 

1 8th. Lord Durham prepared his report on Canada, proposing a Union of 
the Colonies, distinguishing between a Federal and a Legislative 
union, and thus divided the Unionist into two Camps, the Federalist 

and the Legislative Unionists 1839 

19th. George R. Young, of Nova Scotia, wrote a pamphlet in favour of 

Union of all the Provinces 1840 

■ 20th. Simond's Magazine published in London, England, gave extracts 
from several colonial newspapers showing growth of the sentiment of 

Union , 1844 

2 1 St. Major C. Warburton, M.P., wrote " Hochelaga or England in the 
New World " (1846) and ♦* The Conquest of Canada " (1849). In the 
former work he said, ** I should rejoice to see all the British North 
American Provinces, Newfoundland included, united under a central 
colonial government and represented in a common legislature, each 
however, retaining its own Assembly for local purposes. It would 
have the effect of nationalizing England in the new world as distinct 

from * America.' " 1846 

22nd* Major Robinson and Captain Henderson, in their report on the 



First Things in Canada. 57 

Ordeh. Action. Datr. 

Intercolonial Railway, advocated Union on military grounds 1848 

23rd. Lord Elgin discussed Union in a dispatch in connection with the 

Intercolonial Railway project 1848 

24th. The Legislative Council of Canada in an address advocated Union.. 1849 
25th. The British North American League adopted Confederation as a 
plank in their platform in convention assembled. (Hon. Mr. Morris 
states that ** the league was composed for the most part of young and 
enthusiastic members of the Conservative party belonging to the ad- 
vanced wing that rallied around John A. Macdonald.") 1849 

26th. Meeting held in Montreal in which a resolution was passed urging 

Union, attended by Hon . John A. Macdonald 1851 

27th. Henry Sherwood published a pamphlet advocating a general Govem- 
inent, two Chambers and a Viceroy, and for each province a Provincial 

Leeislature 1851 

28th. The Earl of Derby, in the Imperial Parliament, urged " a prompt 
action and a liberal course of action which would cement a closer 

Union between our North American Colonies.*' 185 1 

29th. Hon. Hamilton Merritt introduced a resolution into the Canadian 
Legislature looking to a convention of fifty persons from the several 
provinces to frame a constitution to be submitted to the several 

provincial legislatures 185 1 

30th. Colonel Rankin advocated Union in the Canadian Legislature 185 1 

31st. Hon. Jas. W. Johnston, leader of the Conservative party, advocated 
Legislative Union in the Nova Scotia Legislature. ** I wish to see 
siich a union as would unite all the parts into one homogenous whole, 
and make a people worthy of the sources from whence they sprung, 
and perpetuate from all time to come the character, name, honour 
and institutions of the country of which we are all proud to form a 

part." 1854 

32nd. P. S. Hamilton, Nova Scotia, wrote a pamphlet in which he advo- 
cated Legislative Union. (** The time has now arrived when British 
America must cease to walk in leading strings .... She has now 
attained her national majority and possesses a degree of strength and 
vigour which entitles her to stand besides the mother country. . . . 
British America may then become a member of another Confedera- 
tion upon the vast and widely scattered territories on which ' the sun 
never sets ' — a Confederation the greatest that the world ever saw." — 

Tke Confederation of th% British Empire, ) 1855 

33rd. Hon. J. H. Grey, in the New Brunswick Legislature, supported 
Federal Union. (** It would become neces>ary to check the repub- 
licanism of the one section in the Province of Canada and the 
radicalism of the other by an infusion of the determined loyalty of the 
truly British provinces of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, by means 

of a Federal Union of all the North American Provinces.") 1856 

34th. Hon. J. W. Johnston and Hon. A. G. Archibald brought the subject 
before the Colonial Secretary in London, under authority of the Pro- 
vincial Government of Nova Scotia 1857 

35lh, J. C. Tach^ wrote in support of Union. Mr. Tach^ wrote a series 
o\ articles in the Courrier du Canada in 1857, and these were repro- 
duced in 1858 in a pamphlet in French and English 1857 

36th. Hon. A. T. Gait advocated Federal Union in speeches delivered in 
Torv^nto and Sherbrooke . . . , » 1858 



58 First Things in Canada. 

Order. Action. Date. 

37th. Hon. A. T. Gait advoca'.ed Federal Union in the Canadian Legis- 
lature 1858 

38th. Hon. T. D. McGee supported Mr. Gait in fevour of a Federal 
Union, in the Legislature of Canada • . . « . 185S 

39th. Governor-General Sir Edmund Head, in closing, the session of the 
Canadian Legislature, said, *' I propose during the recess to communi- 
cate with Her Majesty's Government and with the Governments of 
the sister colonies I am desirous of inviting them to dis- 
cuss with us the principles on which a bond of a federal character, 
uniting the provinces of British North America, may perhaps hereafter 
be practical." 1858 

40th. Messrs. Cartier, Ross and Gait were sent to England as a delega- 
tion to urge the home Government to appoint delegates from all the 
provinces to discuss the Union 1858 

41st. Hon. Alexander Morris delivered a lecture in Montreal in advocacy 
of a Federal Union. It was published under the title " Nova Brit- 
annia, or British North Amenca, its extent and future. ** The Cana- 
dian Nature says, " the lecturer sees in the future a fusion of races, a 
union of all the existing provinces with new provinces to grow up in 
the West, and a railway to the Pacific." 1858 

42nd. James Anderson published a letter in the Montreal Gazette^ during 
1858, under the nom de plume " Obiter dictum," urging Union of the 
Provinces. In it, referring to Sir John A. Macdonald, lie says, " the 
primary mind of the Canadian Legislative Assembly was long ago 
prepared for the incorporation of the British American Provinces.". . 1858 

43rd. Nova Scotian delegates, in an interview with Mr. Labouchere, then 
Colonial Secretary, were informed that the Imperial Government 
would interpose no obstacles to the Union. Mr. Labouchere himself 
thought a union of the Maritime Provinces would be highly beneficial. 1858 

44th. George H. Macaulay, in an address before the Hochelaga Debating 
Club, urged Confederation after the plan of the United States, Dec. . 1858 

45th. Bristol (England) merchants urged upon the Imperial Government 
the importance of the Intercolonial Railway with a view to advance 
the Union question 1859 

46th. Liberal Convention held in Toronto, in November, 1859, passed a 
resolution against the union of the Provinces 1859 

47th. The Halifax Reporter published editorials favouring Federal Union. 
An elaborate one appeared in the issue published on the day the 
Prince of Wales landed in Halifistx, and elicited ftom His Royal 
Highness an expression of approval i860 

48th. The Canadian Legislature discussed the question of Union in con- 
nection with the question of a fixed seat of Government i860 

49th. Hon. Sir Charles Tupper (now Sir Charles, Bart.) delivered a lec- 
ture in favour of Confederation, in St. John, N.B i860 

50th. Sir John A. Macdonald, in an address to the electors of Kingston, 
said, '' The Government will not relax its exertions to effect a Con- 
federation of the British North American Provinces." 1861 

51st. Hon. Joseph Howe moved a resolution in the Nova Scotian Assem- 
bly, requesting the Lieutenant-Governor to communicate with the 
Colonisd Secretary, the Governor General and the several Lieutenant- 
Gk>vemors, in order to ascertain their views 1861 

52nd. Duke of Newcastle, then Colonial Secretary, in a despatch to the 



First Things in Canada. 59 

Ordbr. Action. Date. 
Governor General, said, *' If a union, either partial or complete, 
should hereafter be proposed with the consent of all the provinces to 
be united, I am sure the matter will be weighed in this country by 
the public, by the Parliament and by Her Majesty's Government, 
with no other feeling than an anxiety to discern and promote any 
course most conducive to the prosperity, the strength stnd the harmony 
of the British communities in it 1862 

53rd. Hon. George Brown, from a Committee of the Canadian Legislature, 

reported in fivour of a Federal Union 1864 

54th. Delegates from the Maritime Provinces, under authority of Mr. 
Howe^ resolution, met at Charlottetown to consider Maritime Union. 
Hon. Mr. Tupper for Nova Scotia, Hon. Mr. TiUey lor Ktm Bruns- 
wick, and Hon. Mr. Pope for Pdaoe Edward Island, were instru- 
.jBeDtal in .hsvii^ a resolution passed by the several legislatures, 
authorizing the appointment of delegates 1864 

55th. Del^;ates from the Province of Canada appeared at the Conference 
in Charlottetown and applied for admission. Those delegates were 
Messrs. John A. Macdonald, George Brown, G. £. Cartier, A. T. 
Gait, T. D'Arcy McGee, H. L. Langevin, William McDougall and 
Alexander Campbell 1864 

56th. From the representations of the Canadian del^;ates came the ad- 
journment of the discussion, and the meeting of delegates at an Inter- 
provincial Conference held in Quebec 1864 

The foUowinc^ are the names of delegates usually called the *' Fathers 
of Confederation," who met at Quebec, Oct. loth, 1864 : — 

CANADA. 
Hon. Sir Etienne P. Tach^, Premier. 

•* John A. Macdonald, Attorney General, West. 
" George E. Cartier, Attorney General, East. 
•* Wm* McDougall, Provincial Secretary. 
" George Brown, President of Council. 
<* A. T. Gait, Minister of Finance. 
'* Alexander Campbell, Commissioner of Crown Lands. 
•* Oliver Mowat, Postmaster General. 
*' H. L. Langevin, Solicitor General, East. 
T. D. McGee, Minister of Agriculture. 
Cockburn, Solicitor General, West. 
. C Chapais, Commissioner of Public Works. 

Nova Scotia. 
Hon. Charles Tupper, Provincial Secretary. 

" W. A. Henry, Attorney-General. 

" J. McCuUy. 

«« A. G. Archibald. 

" R. B. Dickie. 

New Brunswick. 
Hon. S. L. Tilley, Provincial Secretary. 

" J. M. Johnston, Attorney-General. 

«* P. Mitchell. 

*« Charles Fisher. 

" E. Chandler. 

** W. H. Steeves. 

«' J. H. Gray. 



J: 



60 First Things in Canada. 

Order. Action. Date. 

Princb Edward Island. 
Hon. G)l. Grey, President of Council. 
•* E. Palmer, Attorney-General. 
" W. H. Pope, Provincial Secretary. 
'« G. Coles. 
" T. H. Haviland. 
" E. Whalen. 
<< A. A. McDonald. 

Newfoundland. 
Hon, F. B. S. Carter, Speaker House of Assembly. 
** Ambrose Shea. 
57th. Hon. Joseph Cauchon wrote a Pamphlet in favour of Confederatiob 186$ 
58th. Union resolutions carried in Canadian Legislature in the Council by 
45 to 15 ; in Assembly by 91 to 33. The 91 who voted for Union 
comprised 54 from Upper Canada and 37 from Lower ; 25 from Lower I 
Canada and 18 from Upper Canada composed the minority in the I 

Legislative Assembly 1865 

S9th. The Legislatures of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia referred the 

subject to the Imperial Government 1866 

60th. Delegates from all the Provinces — Canada, New Brunswick and Nova 
Scotia, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions passed by the 
L^islatures of the Maritime Provinces, ' proceeded to England and 
organized in London, with Sir John A. Macdonald as chairman 1866 

6 1 St. Union Act, as framed by the Conference, passed by the Imperial 

Parliament and received the Queen's assent, March 1867 I 

62nd. Queen's Proclamation of the Union issued from Windsor Castle, May 
22nd , 1867 

63rd. The Union proclaimed throughout the four Provinces which thus 
became the Dominion of Canada, July ist 1867 

64th. Imperial Order in Council issued transferring Rupert's Land and the 
North-West Territories to the Dominion, the franchises of the Hud- 
son's Bay Company being purchased by Canada for ;f 300,000 (money 
consideration) and other considerations 1870 

65th. Manitoba created a Province by Act of Canadian Parliament, 1 5th 
July 1870 

66th. British Columbia joined the Union, 20th July 1871 

67th. Fortifications and Military lands, excepting Halifax and Victoria, 
B. C, transferred by the Imperial Government to the Dominion 
Government, by Orders in Council 1870-7 1 72 

68th. Prince Edward Island joined the Confederation, 1st July 1873 

69th. North-West Territories made a government separate from Manitoba, 

October 1876 

70th. Islands of the Arctic Archipelago transferred to Canada by the Imperial 
Government, ist September 1880 

71st. Boundaries between Ontario and Manitoba defined by decision of the 
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council of England 1884 

72nd. North-West Territories given representation in Federal Parliament. 
Act 1 886 

73rd. North-West Territories given Elective Assembly. Act 1888 

74th. Nottherly, westerly and easterly boundaries of Ontario defined by 
Imperial Parliament. (See Dominion Act;?, 1890) ,....,..,. 1889 



tiRSt f HIKGS IN CANAbA. ' 6l 

Order, Action. Date, 

75th. Right of appeal from decision of the Supreme Court of North-West 
Territories to Her Majesty in Privy Council, granted by Order in 
Council, 30ih July 1891 

76th. Right ot appeal from decision ot Court of Queen's Bench, Manitoba, 
to Iler Majesty in Privy Council, granted by Imperial Order in Council, 
26th November. (See Order in Council in Dominion Statutes, 1894) 1892 

Conference between Upper and Lower House— The Brsi disagreement on 
record between Upper and Lower House is that between the Legislative 
Council and the House of Representatives of Nova Scotia. The Council 
sent a Bill for ** quieting possessions of land " indorsed, " Soit BailU aux 
Communes,^* The Assembly immediately returned it saying they neither 
agreed or disagreed to the subject matter therein contained, but requested 
that the Council would be pleased to inform them for what purpose they 
had setii that paper to them. The Council replied that what the Assembly 
had thought proper to term a paper was in lact a bill which they (the 
Council) had prepared and sent to Assembly for concurrence in passing 
into a law, and that the indorsement was made in strict accordance with 
the usage of Parliament, it being customary with that august body when a 
Bill was sent from the Lords, to endorse it " Bailli aux Communes " and 
in like manner when one was sent to the Lords to endorse it '* BailU aux 
Seigneurs,'*^ The House replied that they intended to adopt the course 
pursued by the other Colonial (New England, &c.) Legislatures; that 
they saw no necessity for adopting the French language, and that they were 
by no means certain that either a Provincial Councii or House of Assembly 
could claim the privileges or conform to the practices of the Lords and 
Commons. A conference followed at which the forms of communication 
with each other, etc. , were settled and peace reigned. 

Coneress of Chambers of Commerce of the Empire — First one held was in 
London, Eng., opened July 6th, 1886 ; the second, also held in London, 
opened June 28tn, 1892, and the third opened in London, June 9lh, 1896. 
In the latter 172 Chambers of Commerce were represented, of which 32 
were Canadian. The following subjects were discussed (arranged alpha- 
betically : — 

(i) Arbitration for International Disputes.:}: 

(2) Bills of Exchange — Uniform Procedure:}: 

(3) Bills of Lading Reform.* 

(4) Boards of Lalx>ur — Conciliation and Arbitration.t 

(5) Codification of Commercial Laws of Empire.* 

(6) Consultative Imperial Council. t 

(7) Copyright.: 

(8) Decimal System — Weights, Measures and Currency. t 

(9) Emigration.* 

(10) Imperial Commercial Relations. t 

(11) Inter-imperial Postal and Telegraph Routes.* 

(12) Light Dues on Shipping. t 

(13) Postal Facilities.^ 

(14) Railway Extension in S.W. China.:}: 

(15) Rates of Freight to South Africa.:^ 

(16) Rules of the Road at Sea.^: 

* Discussed in each of the three Congresses, 
t Discussed in the 1892 and the 1896 Congress. 
X Discussed in the 1896 Congress only. 



62 First Things in Canada. 

Conspiracy Laws, first repealed in 1872 by Sir John Macdonald, who, for so 
doing, was presented by the workingmen of Ottawa with a gold-headed 
cane, and by the workingmen of Toronto with a gold watch. 
Controverted Elections, trial of, first transferred from House of CommoDs 
Elections Committee to Special Judges, by statute, 1873 i ^^^ transferred 
to Judges of Superior Courts by Act of 1874. There have been (to Decem- 
- ber 31st, 1895) 208 trials under these Acts, 115 of which resulted in void- 
ing the seats for corrupt practices. The total number of elections (general 
and bye) from, and including, the General Elections of 1874, to December 
3 1 St, 1895, ^^ i>440* Thus 8 per cent of all the Federal elections, 
during 22 years, have been voided owing to corrupt practices under the 
Act. 
Copyrig^ht — The first copyright granted by the Province of Canada was regis- 
tered 1st December, 1841. It was for a work prepared by Alexander 
Davidson, of the District of Niagara, published by Henry Roswell, King 
street, Toronto, 1840. Its title is ** The Canadian Spelling Book, intended 
as an introduction to the English language, consisting of a variety of 
lessons progressively arranged in three parts, with an appendiic containing 
several useful tables ; the outlines of geography ; a comprehensive sketch 
of grammar, with morning and evening prayers for every day of the week ; 
the words divided and accented according to the purest mode of pronun- 
ciation." This book was registered pursuant to the provisions of Acts of 
4 and 5 Victoria, ch. 6x, at Kingston. The second copyright is panted 
for the " Boys' Own Book, being a digest of the British Constitution, for 
the use of schools and private families, by John George Bridges ; printed 
at the Ottawa Advocate office, District of Sydenham, Province of Canada, 
1842." 

The third copyright is " The War of 181 2, containing a full and detailed 
narrative of the operations of the Right Division of the Canadian Army, 
by Major Richardson.'* 

The fourth is *' Plan of the Military and Naval Operations under the 
command of the immortal Wolfe and Vice-Admiral Saunders before 
Quebec, by Alfred Hawkens." 

The first in the French languafi;e is " Statuts et RegJemens de la Con- 

f rerie du tres Saint et immaculat? coeur de Marie, etablie dans le diocese 

de Quebec, avec Tapprobation de Mgr. L'Eveque de Quebec, 1843. 

Augustin Cote." 

One copyrijght was registered in 1841, three in 1842, and four in 1843. 

The copyrights issued in 1896 were as follows : works on 

Poetry 20 History 19 

Education 71 Agriculture 3 

Medicine 9 Mining I 

Music 167 Trade 33 

Law 33 Literature 113 

Religion 41 Biography 7 

Sundries 109 

Total. 626. In 1895 the total was 588. 

Copyrights are registered and r^ulated in accordance with the terms of 
of the Canadian Copyright Act, such being Chapter 62 of the Revised 
Statutes of Canada. Under this Act a copyright in Canada may be regis- 
tered by **any person domiciled in Canada or in any part of the British 
possessions, or any citizen of any country which has an international copy- 
right treaty with the United Kingdom." The meaning of this clause, by 



-u^ 



First Things in Canada. 63 

the interpretation of the Department of Justice, is held not to include the 
United States, on the ground that the fact of the United States Act grant- 
ing copyright to British subjects or those of other nations, on certain 
conditions, does not constitute an ** International Copyright Treaty with 
the United Kingdom. " The Canadian Act requires the printing in Canada 
of the work as a condition of copyright and it excludes all foreign reprints 
of works so copyrighted, but it does not exclude *' importation from the 
United Kingdom of copies of any work lawfully printed there.*' British 
copyright works not copyrighted in Canada are admitted by the terms of 
the Canadian law to be imported, and large numbers of such reprints are 
in consequence imported from the United States. The reciprocal clauses 
of the Canadian Act are in terms the provisions on which the Berne Con- 
vention is based. The importation of American reprints of English copy- 
righted works was expressW sanctioned by Imperial legislation, and such 
importations, in virtue of the provisions of the Copyright Act and the 
Customs Act, were subjected to a duty of 12^ per cent, to be collected 
for the benefit of British authors ; such collection being made under the 
provisions of Chapter 10 of the Consolidated Orders-in-Council of Canada. 
The collection of this duty for authors, however, came to a close in 1895. 
Literary, scientific and artistic work or compositions, including music, are 
the subject of copyright. The Canadian Copyright law now being admin- 
istered was amended by the Copyright Act of 1889, which, however, l^ 
the terms of Section 7, does not come into effect until proclaimed by the 
Governor-General in Council, and it was explained by the Minister of 
Justice in the House of Commons, in charge of the Bill, that this procla- 
mation would be subject to an agreement with the Imperial authorities. 
Such agreement has not yet been obtained, objection being taken by 
English authorities and copyright holders to certain of its provisions. 
The Copyright Law of Canada is : — 

Imperial Act 10 and ii Vic, c. 95. An Act to amend the law relative 
to the protection in the Colonies ot works entitled to copyright in the 
United Kingdom. 

1850 — 13 and 14 Vic, c. 6, (approved hj Imperial O. C, 12th Dec, 
1850) provided that it should be lawful for the Governor in Council to 
impose an ad valorem duty not exceeding 20 per cent, on foreign reprints 
of British copyright works. Act to commence by proclamation. 

1859—22 Vic , c 8 » , Consolidated Statutes. An Act respecting Copyrights, 
re-enacted the above provision. 

1861 — Table of Duties. Foreign reprints of British copyrights are subject 
to I2>^ per cent, of duty by Order in Council, under authority of 13 and 
14 Vic, c 6, 

1868 — Sept. 24, proclamation declaring Act 31 Vic, c 56 (1868) to be in 
force from Sept. 28, and imposing '* a uniform ad vahrem duty through- 
out the Dominion of I2>^ per cent., being the rate fixed and collected in 
the Province of Canada previous to the Confederation of the Provinces." 

1875 — 38 Vic, c 88 to be found in Acts 1876). This Copyright Act makes 
no reference to the above duty. It makes it a condition for obtaining 
copyright in Canada that the literary work shall be printed and published 
or reprinted and republished in Canada contemporaneously or subsequently 
to the publication or production elsewhere. 

ig^p — Xhe Customs Act provided tor the imposition on British copyright 
works, reprints, of 6 cents per pound, and in addition thereto I2>| per 
cent, ad val. 



64 t^IRST tntNGS IK CAHAbA. 

1881 — Schedule of prohibited articles added to by this : '* Foreign reprinii 
of British copyright works copyrighted in Canada, and of Canadian copy- 
righted works." 

1883— Free list. Books bound which shall have been printed more than 
seven years at the date of importation, except foreign reprints of English 
copyrighted books, which shall remain subject to the copyright duty. 

i886h— Chap. 32, R. S. C- Dutiable —British copyright books, reprints of, 
15 per cent. odvaL^ and in addition thereto 12^ per cent, ad vol. 

Prohibited — Reprints of Canadian copyright books, and reprints of 
British copyright works which have been also copyrighted in Canada. 

1889— Act of 1889 not in force, having been ** reserved." 

1894 — Customs Duties Act. British copyright works, reprints of, 6 cents a 
pound, and in addition thereto 12^ per cent, adval,, until the end of 
the next session of Parliament, and thereafter 6 cents a pound. ProhiHtei. 
— same wording as in 1886. 

1897 — Customs Act prohibits importation of reprints of Canadian copyright 
works, and reprints of British copyright works which have been copyrighted 
in Canada, like all other printed works (excepting those prohibited) are \ 
admi:ted (i) free, (2) or with a 10 per cent, adval*^ (3) or with a 20 per 
cent. €ui vaLy according to classification of their contents and language 
provided for by the Customs Act. 

Under these piovisions from 1868 to, and including, 1893, the amount 
collected and sent to the Briti<^h Government under the royalty duty of 
I2>^ per cent, was $24,572 ; for 1894, $1,424; for 1895, $3,238 ; for 
1896, $777. Total, $30,011. 
Copper— The first mention of a copper mine in Canada is by Lescarbot, who 
says, on arriving at Isle Ptrc6, on i6th August, 1609, he met Sieur 
Prevert, of St. Malo, **just come from a copper-mine." The first ship- 
ment of copper bullion and matte, from Western Canada to England, took 
place in June, 1897, when eight carloads were shipped from Revelstoke to 
Montreal. 
Coteau Bridge — The third railway bridge built across the River St. Law- 
rence ; the Victoria Bridge, by the Grand Trunk being the first, and the 
Lachine, by the C.P.R., the second. The Coteau bridge was built by 
the Canada Atlantic Railway Co. The distance from shore to shore is one 
mile and three quarters. There are seventeen fixed spans — one of 139 
feet, two of 175 ^et each, ten of 217 feet each, and four of 223 feet. The 
swinging span of the north channel covers 355 feet. It was opened in 
March, 1890. 
Counties — The first Province to establish the old Norman division of counties 
was Nova Scotia, whose Legislature in 1759 divided the Province into four 
counties : — Halifax, Lunenburg, Annapolis and Kings. These elected eight 
representatives who sat as such for first time in 1 761. Prince Edward 
Island was divided into three counties in 1 768— King's, Prince and Queen's, 
the same divisions and names as at present. New Brunswick was divided 
into counties in 1785— Charlotte, York, Sunbury, Queen's, King's, St. 
John, Westmoreland and Northumberland. 

Lower Canada was divided into twenty-one counties by proclamation of 
the Governor- General in 1792. These were named : — 

Gaspe, Richelieu, Devon, 

Cornwallis, Bedford, Hartford, 

Surrey, Kent, Dorchester, 

Huntingdon) Buckingham, Effiinghami 



First Things in Canada. 65 

York, Montreal, Leinster, 

Warwick, St. Maurice, Hampshire, 

Quebec, Northumberland, Orleans. 

All excepting six were English names. Of the fifteen English names 
then given Huntingdon and Dorchester alone remain. Leinster appears 
on a map of 1826 and corresponded to the Montcalm County of to-day. 

Upper Canada was divided into nineteen counties by the Lieutenant- 
Governor in 1792. Ridings, divisions peculiar to Yorkshire and Lincoln- 
shire in England, were also introduced in a few instances. The 21 
divisions were: District of Lunenburg — (i) Lancaster, (2) Charlottenburg, 
(3) Cornwall, (4) Osnabruck, (5) Williamsburg, (6) Matilda, (7) Edwards- 
burg, (8) Augusta, (9) Elizabethtown. District of Mecklenburg — (i) Pitts- 
burg, (2) Kingston, (3) Ernestown, (4) Fredericksburg, (5) Adolphustown, 
(6) Marysburg, (7) Sophiasburg, (8) Ameliasburg, (9) Sydney, (10) Thur- 
low, (11) Richmond, (12) Camden. District of Nassau^ comprised the 
district from Trent to Long Point on Lake Erie ; and District of Hesse^ 
the rest of the Province to L^ke St. Clair. 

The Legislature of Upper Canada changed the District names in 1892 
into Eastern, Midland, Home and Western. These were subsequently 
enlarged and, Johnstown, New Castle, Niagara, London and Gore districts 
added. The Eastern District according to Darcy Boulton's " Sketch of 
His Majesty's Province of Upper Canada " in 1805, comprised at that date, 
Glengarry, Stormont, Dundas, Prescott and Russell. Johnstcvnt com- 
prised Grenville, Leeds and Carleton. The Midland\yv&\.ncX was composed 
of Frontenac, the incorporated Caunties of Lenox and Addington, Hast- 
ings and Prince Edward, and all northern region to the Ottawa. The 
District of New Castle embraced the Counties of Northumberland and 
Durham, with all the land behind them. The Home District included the 
Counties of York and Simcoe. The District of Niagara embraced the 
Counties of Lincoln and Haldimand, the beach at the head of Lake 
Ontario and the Township of SaltBeet. The District o{ London comprised 
the Counties of Norfolk, Oxford and Middlesex. The Western District 
comprehended the Counties of Essex and Kent. 

The County as the unit of division has been retained in the Province of 
Ontario. 

In the Province of Manitoba the County was adopted as a unit in 1883, 
but in the Revised Statutes of Manitoba, 1891, the Act of 1883 appears 
among the repealed Acts, and by other legislation the Province is sub- 
divided into judicial districts, cities, towns and viUlages and rural munici- 
palities, the municipality being the unit. For representation in the 
Legislative Assembly, the unit is the Township, a number of which com- 
pose an electoral district. For the Dominion representation the unit is 
the Township (or Parish), an aggregation of which forms an electoral 
district of which there are six. 

In British Columbia the municipality is the unit, and from it are formed 
judicial districts of different kinds. Provincial and Dominion electoral 
districts, 
ouaty CourU— These were established in Ontario in 1845, by Chap. 13, 
8th Vic, and were enlarged by Act of 1853, and other Acts which were 
consolidated in Chap. 15 of the Consolidated Statutes of Upper Canada, 
1856. They were established in New Brunswick by Chap. 10 of 30th 
Vic. (1867); in British Columbia in 1872 ; in Nova Scotia in 1876, and in 
Manitoba in 1882. (See " Judges County Court.") 
5 



66 First Things in Canada. 

County Model Schools— were established in Ontario in 1843. Township 
Model Schools were established in 1850. 

Courts— A Supreme Council was established in 1663 in Quebec, and it exer- 
cised judicial powers, giving judgments in civic and criminal cases» accord- 
ing tolhe Royal Ordinances and the Coutume de Paris. The Council, called, 
after 1703, the Conseil Superieur, had the power to establish subordinate 
courts throughout the colony. After the conquest of 1760, the government 
of Canada was entrusted to military men. In 1763 authority was given 
to the governors, with the consent of the Council and the representatives 
of the people, to make laws for the good government of the colony. The 
governors were also empowered to establish Courts of Judicature. As, 
however, no Assemblies met (the French Canadians being unwilling to 
take the oaths required), there were no laws. In February, 1766, Gov- 
ernor Murray received instructions to modify the practice of the Courts. 
He was directed to pass an ordinance admitting Canadians of French 
origin to serve on juries. In suits afiecting British contestants only, ifae 
jury were to be British. When one of the contestants was a French 
Canadian, the jury was to be a mixed one. When both parties were 
French Canadian, the jury was to be wholly of French Canadians. 
French Canadians were likewise admitted to practise as advocates in the 
Courts. 

Courts — In 1721 a Court of Judicature was established at Annapolis, Nova 
Scotia. At a meeting of the Council, held on the loth April, it was 
resolved ** that the Governor and Council do sit as a general Court or 
Court of Judicature four times a year." The royal instructions to Governor 
Cornwallis in 1749 required him to erect and commission Courts of Justice 
in Nova Scotia. After consultation with his Council he erected three 
Courts. The first was a Court of General Sessions, similar in its nature, 
and conformable in its practice, to the courts of the same name in 
England. The second was a County Court, having jurisdiction over the 
whole province (which at the time was but one county), and held by 
those persons who were in the Commission of the Peace at Halifax ; this 
Court sat monthly. The third was the General Court. This was a Court 
of Assize and general jail delivery, in which the Governor and Council sal 
as judges. It assembled twice a year. In 1752 the County Court was 
abolished, and a Court of Common Pleas erected in "its place upon the 
plan of the Superior Courts of Common Pleas in New England. 

Court — Supreme Court of Canada first established 1875. W. B. Richards 
first Chief Justice. The first sitting was on 5th June, 1876. 

Cricket — First international match between Canada and the United States, 
was played in Montreal, 1845. 

Criminal Statistics— The collection of, was ordered by the Parliament of 
Canada in the session of 1876. The first report under the Act was for the 
year 1880. These statistics are divided into six classes. Class ist, 
offences against the person ; class 2nd, offences against propect)^ witB 
violence ; class 3rd, ofiences against property without violence ; class 4th, 
malicious offences against property ; class 5lh, forgery and offences against 
the currency ; class 6th, other offences not included in the other classes. 
Total Convictions— Comparison per lo^ooo inhabitants : 

1881-86. 1887-92. 1893-95. 

1st class 10.66 10.45 9- 19 

2nd " 0.43 0.53 0.84 

31'd ** 11.36 12.32 7.04 



First Things in Canada. 67 

4th class 0.93 0.52 0.77 

5th ** 0.07 0.08 0.09 

6th " 54.00 60. 10 54,67 

In the class including the higher crimes, such as murder, manslaughter, 
bigamy, assault, etc., there has been a reduction in the number of convic- 
tions. In the three classes including offences against property, there has 
been a decrease in the malicious offences. There has been an increase in 
class 2 ; a decrease in classes 3 and 4. Forgery and offences against the 
currency show an increase. 

Other offences show a tendency to increase. In the indictable offences 
the total convictions in 1884, were 2,506 ; in 1888, 3,747 ; and in 1895, 
5,477 — an increase in 1895 o^^r '^84 of about 5 per thousand of the 
fX>pulation. The proportion of convicted persons using liquor immoder- 
ately was, in 1884, 50 per cent of the total convictions ; in 1888, 37.7 per 
cent, and in 1895, 53-4 per cent. The proportion of those unable to read 
and write was, in 1884, 28.6 per cent ; in 1888, 15 per cent, and in 
1895; H P^r cent. Of those having elementary education, 1884, 67.5 per 
cent ; 1888, 77 per cent, and 1895, 7i per cent. Of those having superior 
education, 1884, 1.12 per cent ; 1888, i per cent, and 1895, 1.65 per cent. 
The number of charges in 1895 for indictable offences, was 7,730, of 
which, 5,474 or 70.8 cent, resulted in convictions. In 1890 there were 
5,819 charges and 3,934 convictions, or 67.7 per cent. In 1885 there were 
5,518 charges and 3,797 convictions or 68:8 per cent. 

ruelty to Animals, Canadian Society for Prevention of, was organized at a 
public meeting, 8th February, 1869. Sir John Young, K.C.B. (Governor 
General), Sir N. F. Belleau, Sir John A. Macdonald and Hon. P. J. 
Chauveau were the first patrons. The first president was William Work- 
man. The society confines its operations to the Province of Quebec, and 
largely to the City of Montreal. The inspectors during 1895 attended to 
57 prosecutions, gave 257 warnings, and destroyed 31 animals. 

urliag — The game was first played in Canada in Montreal, 1807. Quebec 
in 1821 was the next city to institute a club. The Scots in Fergus, Ont., 
formed the first club in the West in 1834. Then in order named came 
West Flamboro in 1835, the old Toronto Club in 1837, and Guelph and 
Gait in 1838. All the Canadian clubs at first affiliated with the Royal 
Caledonian Curling Club of Scotland, but the Ontario Branch of the 
Royal Caledonian was launched on December 22nd, 1874. There are 
now about 100 clubs in this branch. The Halifax Curling Club was 
formed on 12th January, 1854. 

Hoard, Sir Samuel, (a Canadian born), was the first to conceive and to 
carry to a successful conclusion, in 1840, the idea of a regular ocean — / 
steamship service between Canada and Great Britain. The idea was 
suggested to him by the successful trip of the /^oyai William from Nova 
Scotia to London. 

nrrency — In the early days all sorts of coin were current in British North 
America. The first ordinance passed by the British authorities in Canada 
was in 1764, and by it the French Louis d'or and the French crown were 
rated above their normal value for the purpose of retaining them in circu- 
lation, in the colony. The first step taken in Canada for a revision of 
currency was in 1795, when, to remedy the evils resulting from the coined 
money in circulation being reduced in weight, debased in value, and 
composed of every variety of pieces peculiar to all countries trading with 
this continent, an Act was passed fixing a standard of value founded upon 



68 First Things in Canada. 

the average instrinsic worth of the gold and silver coins of Great BritaiD, 
Portagal, Spain and the United States. Some assistance was given by this 
measure, but the increasing business of the country demanded improved 
facilities for exchange. 

Canadian, or, as more frequently called, Halifax, currency was estab- 
lished by an ordinance of 1765, which changed the monetary nomenclature 
from French to English, but aidopted as the money unit a shilling, equal in 
value to the old French livre. The denominations were dollars, pounds, 
shillings and pence, 20 shillings being equal to 5 dollars, the dollar being 
originally the Spanish pillar dollar coined before 1772, and containing 385 
grains fine silver. 

From August, 1812, to near the close of 1820, the people of Canada 
used a currency composed for the most part of promissory legal tender 
"army bills," * originally issued by the Government as a financial aid in 
the war with the United States, relieving the authorities of any necessity 
to run the risk and incur the expense otimporting specie fi'om Cngland. 

Various subsequent acts of the legislatures established a valuation to 
the coin current in British North America. 

Finally, in 1858, the Province of Canada adopted dollars and cents, 
pounds, shillings and pence as the only moneys of account. 

In 1871 the Federal Parliament passed the Act (Chap. 4, Acts of 1871) 
respecting the currency which gave to the Provinces of the Dominion a 
uniform currency. 

Under this and other acts there are seven different kinds of money in 
circulation Ip the Dominion, namely : gold coins ; subsidiary silver 
coins and bronze coins ; provincial notes (issued prior to Confederation) ; 
Dominion notes ; bank notes and fractional notes. 
Gold Coin — The single gold standard adopted by Canada under the Acl 
of 1 87 1 was thSt of the British sovereign of the weight and fineness pre- 
scribed by the laws of the United Kingdom to pass current at $4,862/3. 
Provision was also made that, until otherwise ordered by Her Majesty's 
proclamation, the gold eagle of the United States should be l^al tender 
m Canada at its face value when it is up to the standard weight and limit 
. of tolerance (remedy of the mint) prescribed by law, viz. : fixed weight 10 
pennyweights and 18 grains Troy, and of the fineness fixed by the United 
States Act of 1834, ue, '899*225, and that of 1837, that is, '900. 

The Canadian Act of 1871 provided for a special gold coinage for 
Canada, but none has been minted under the Act. 
Silver Coins— The silver piece are of the denomination of 50, 25, 10 and 
5 cents ; and the copper piece of one cent is the only minor coin. 

The largest silver piece weighs 1 79 "31 grains, and is '925 thousands fine. 
The smaller pieces are in proportion. These are legal tender to the 
amount of 10 dollars. The copper coin is tender to the amount of 25 
cents in any one payment. 

In addition to the coin used<^he Canadian Government issues Govern- 
ment notes, first issued by the Legislature of the Province of Canada in 
1866. The authority was limited to $5,ocx),ocx) on general account, and 



* The total amount of these bills issued was ;^3,44i,993. They were issued in amounts 
of $400, $100, $50, $25, $10, $5. $3, $2, and $1, each dollar being considered e<)ual to s 
shillings, Halifax currency. They were finally withdrawn and the books closed aSth 



First Things in Canada. 69 

$3,ooo,cxx) to replace notes of banks surrendering their power of bsue. * 
It was provided that 20 per cent, of the notes issued should be covered by 
specie reserve, and the remainder by Provincial debentures. 

On the formation of the Dominion, the permitted issue was enlarged, 
by the Act of 1868, to $8,ocx),cxx), any amount in excess of $5,ocx),ooo to 
be covered by 25 per cent, in specie, or in specie and Canadian securities 
guaranteed by the Imperial Government. For the remainder the security 
prqvided was unguaranteed bonds issued by authority of Parliament. 

In 1870 the issue was fixed at $9,000,000, with a 20 per. cent specie 
reserve — any excess over the $9,000,000 to bie fully covered by specie. 

In 1872, m consequence of the growing demand for paper currency, 
the issues in excess of the $9,000,000 were required to lie covered by 
specie only to the extent of 35 per cent. 

In 1875, 50 P^f c^<^^* specie reserve was required for $3,000,000 over 
the $9,000,000 ; and for any excess over the $12,000,000 a. 6U1 cover of 
specie. 

In 1880 the law authorized the issue of $20,000,000 to be covered by 
at least 15 per cent, in gold, 10 per cent, additional either in gold or in 
Dominion securities guaranteed by the Imperial Government, and the 
remainder in unguaranteed Dominion bonds ; any excess over $20,000,000 
to be fully covered with gold. 

In 1894 an Act was passed providing that the issue might exceed 
$25,000,000. This Act, however, did not provide for any additional 
security, and was therefore replaced by Chap. 16, Acts of 1895, which 
provides that Dominion notes may be issued in excess of the sum of 
$20,000,000, provided that the Minister of Finance, in addition to any 
amount required to be held by him in gold under the Act of 1890 (Re- 
vised Statutes 1886, Chap. 31), holds gold sufficient to cover fiilly any 
excess over the $20,000,000. 

These notes are full legal tender, redeemable in specie on demand, and 
are of the following denominations : $1, $2, $4, $5, $10, $20, $50, $100, 
$500, $1,000 and $5,000 (the latter first issued in October, 1896, and 
chiefly used for clearing house purposes). 

Provincial notes issued by the several provinces prior to Confederation 
are still unredeemed to the amount of about $29,000. They are $5, $10, 
and $20. 

Under the general authority of the Act of 1868, the Government issued 
notes for 25 cents in 1870, when Sir Francis Hincks was Minister of 
Finance, the chief object of which was to provide the country with frac- 
tional currency, and thus relieve the strain consequent on the enforced 
removal from circulation of United States silver with which the country 
had been flooded. 

The several Acts, therefore, require : 1st. That there shall be held by * 
the Dominion Government 15 per cent, of $20,000,000 in gold ; 2nd. 10 
per cent additional, either in gold or Dominion securities, guaranteed by 
the Imperial Government ; 3rd. 75 per cent, in unguaranteed Dominion 
bonds ; 4th. Gold, dollar for dollar, of any excess of issue over $20,000,000. 

The average amount of Dominion notes in circulation in 1895 was 
$21,397,750. 

To protect there had to be held by law : — 

*The banks were offered 5 per cent, on their circulation, and one-half the estimated 
cost of their unissued notes as inducements to surrender their power of issue. The Bank of 
Montreal was the only one which agreed to do so. In consequence the Act was repealed in 
1870. 



70 First Things in Canada. 

1st. IS % on $20,000,000 $ 3,000,000 

2nd. 10 % on $20,000,000 gold or guaranteed 

security 2,000,000 

3r<I* 75 % on $20,000,000 gold, unguaranteed 

security 15,000,000 

4th. Gold for excess over $20,000,000 i»397»75o 

Total V $21,000,000 

The amount held was : — 

Gold $ 9»634»3J2 

Guaranteed securities 1,946,667 

Unguaranteed securities 17,250,000 

Total $28,830,979 

Thus of gold and guaranteed securities there was held $11,580,979 
against $6,397,750 required by law, or $5,183,229 more than the law 
requires of gold and guaranteed securities, and $2,150,000 more of 
unguaranteed securities, or in all $7,433,229 more than required. 

Thus the amount of gold actually held constitutes over 45 per cent, of 
the whole circulation. 

Dark Days— ** On the 14th October, 1780," says Haight, "a most remarkable 
phenomenon occurred. At noon a pitchy darkness completely obscured 
the light of the sun, continuing for about ten minutes at a time, and being 
frequently repeated during the afternoon. In the interval between each 
mysterious eclipse dense masses of black clouds streaked with yellow drove 
athwart the darkened sky, with fitful gusts of wind. Thunder, lightning, 
black rain and showers of ashes added to the terrors of the scene." Kings- 
ford mentions similar experiences on the 9th, 15th and i6th October, 1785. 
Similar demonstrations were witnessed in July, 18 14. 

Dairymen's Association of Canada— The first Convention was held in 
Ottawa, April 9lh, 1889, for the purpose of securing uniformity throughout 
the Dominion in the manufacture of butter and cheese for export. Parlia- 
ment voted $3,000 in aid. The beginning of the cheese factory industry 
dales back to 1863. In 1865 there were ten in operation in Upper Canada. 
The repeal of the Reciprocity Treaty in March, 1866, gave cheese making 
a powerful impulse. At the close ot the season of 1866 there were 60 in 
Canada West, and 12 in Canada East. In 1868 Ontario had 180 factories, 
and Quebec 17. In 1890 there were 1565 factories in the Dominion ; of 
these Ontario had 893, and Quebec, 617. In i860 the value of the export 
of domestic cheese by the United States was $1,563,630, and in 1896 it 
was $3,091,914. In i860 the value of the export of Canadian cheese 
was $13,675, and in 1896 it was $13,956,571. Of the total export of 
164,689,123 lbs., in 1896, of Canadian made cheese, 164,410,940 lbs. went 
to Great Britain. That market requires an import from other countries of 
2,300,000 cwt., valued at $24,000,000. Canada supplies 56 per cent. 
of the whole requirements of Great Britain. The total butter production 
in Canada, in 1890, was 115,938,165 pounds. 

Dates old and new — The first instance of the recognition of the new 
style in an English document is in Kirk's summons, from Tadousac to 
Champlain to surrender Quebec, 1628. The new style had been used 
by the French from 1582. It was not used by the English till 1752. 

Deaf and' Dumb, Education of— First appiopriation for by any Canadian 
Legislature, was made by the Legislature of Nova Scotia in 1857. 



First Things in Canada. 71 

Decimal System of coinage first adopted in Canada in 1858 ; of currenry, 
first adopted for public accounts 1858. 

Deep "Water Terminus of Intercolonial Railway at Halifax, completed 
February, 1880. 

Defence Commission — A Royal Commission was appointed in 1862, to 
enquire into the measures to be taken for the Defence of Canada. The 
outcome of its report presented in that year and of certain political events 
occurring about that time was the embodiment, in the Militia Act, of a 
form of organization based upon the requirements and resources of the 
British North American Colonies as then existing. A defence commission 
met at Ottawa, February, 1889. It consisted of General Sir Fred 
Middleton, Major General Cameron, Col. Walker Powell, and Lt.-Col. 
Irvine. 

Dental Jomnal — The first Dental journal in Canada was the Canadian Journal 
of Dental Science, founded June, 1868, by Dr. W. G. Beers, Montreal. 

Dental Surgeons— The Ontario Royal College of Dental Surgeons was founded 
in 1868. 

Department of Marine and Fisheries— First organized with Ministerial head, 
1st July, 1867. 

Department of Interior — First organized with Ministerial head, ist July, 1873. 

Department of Railways and Canals — First organized with Ministerial head, 
20th May, 1879. 

Deputy Speaker of the House of Commons, first provided by Chapter i. Acts 
of 1885. M. B. Daly elected ist Deputy Speaker, loth February, 1885 ; 
Hon. C. C. Colby elected April, 1887, and served to December, 1889 ; 
John F. Wood, 21st January, 1890 ; J. H. Bergeron, 22nd May, 1891 ; L. 
P. Brodeur, 27th August, 1896. 

Dircfrtory— The first Directory of Montreal was issued 1819. 

Distillery— The first was Mauger's in Halifax, 1750. — 

Divorce Court — Was first established in Nova Scotia in 1759 (32 Geo. 11.)-^ \ 
It consisted ofthe Governor or Commander-in-Chief and the members of \ 
Executive Council. By the Act of 1866 the Judge in Equity became Judge 
Ordinary of the Court. New Brunswick's Court of Divorce was established 
by Act 31, Geo. Ill, cap. 5. It consisted of the Governor and five members 
ofthe Council. In 1835 a Judge of the Supreme Court was added. In i860 
a Court of Divorce and Matrimonial Causes was created. In British 
Columbia the Supreme Court tries divorce cases, and in Prince Edward 
Island the Lieut. -Governor and Council. For Ontario and Quebec, Mani- 
toba and the North- West, proceedings are initiated by Bill introduced in 
the Senate of the Parliament of Canada. The Commons passes upon the 
Senate's bill in each case. In all since 1868 there have been 214 divorces 
granted, of which 57 were by the Dominion Parliament, and 167 by the 
several Provincial Courts. Prince Edward Island has not granted a single 
divorce in 28 years. 

Dockyard— The first established was in Halifax, 1758. The date on the gate 
is 1770, which refers to the year the wall enclosing it was built. 

Dominion Live Stock Association, first annual meeting held in Toronto, 
February 6th, 1886. 

Dominion— Canada first called a Dominion in 1774, in address of the Ameri- 
can Colonies in assembly at Philadelphia. Name first officially given by 
the Imperial Parliament in the Union Act passed in 1867, and proclaimed 
throughout Canada on 1st July, 1867. It was offered as a substitute to 
that proposed by Sir John Macdonald, viz., ** Kingdom of Canada." The 



72 First Things in Canada. 

des^Dation ** Kingdom " was first proposed by Rev. Dr. Strachan, in a 
memo addressed to the British Government, 1824. 

Dominion Alliance for the totnl suppression of the Liquor Traffic. In 1875 
sixteen members of the House of Commons of Canada, united in a ** call " 
for a National Prohibition Convention. The meeting thus summoned was 
held in Montreal on September 15th, i6th and 17th, 1875, and the Assod- 
Atioa was called at first the Dominion Prohibitory Council. In 1876, 
coincideDt with changes of the constitution it was called the Dominion 
Alliaace. In its plan and purpose it is a federation of the societies in 
Canada &vourable to the suppression of the liquor traffic. This Pro- 
hibition Parliament meets annually to consult and advise wtth respect to 
all methods of general work. A Legislative Council is appointed annually 
jHid meets at Ottawa during the Session of Parliament to watch all legisla- 
tion connected with the traffic. Hon. Senator Vidal has been President 
of the Allaince from its inception. (See Temperance.) 

Dominion Artillery Association— First general meeting held in Parliament 
Buildings, Ottawa, on the 22nd February, 1876. This meeting was the 
result of several others held at important centres where the object of the 
Association was explained and members enrolled. The aim of the 
Association is the development of gunnery skill and the dissemination of 
Artillery knowledge throughout the Dominion. The first President was 
General Selby Smyth, followed by General Luard in 1880, Lieut. -Col. 
Oswald 1885, Lieut. -Col. Macdonald 1888, General Sir Fred Middle- 
ton 1890, Lieut. -Col. A. A. Stevenson 1891, Lieut. -Col. J. R. Armstrong 
1893, Lieut. -Col. A. Curren 1892, and Lieut. -Col. E. G. Prior 1894. The 
Governors- General in succession have been Patrons, Lord Dufierin being 
the first. Lord Dufferin presented medals for firing competitions. The 
Marquis of Lome was the first to present prizes for general efEcieDcy. 
These have been continued by his successors. The Association has sent 
four teams to England to compete in the National Artillery Association 
competitions at Shoeburyness. The first team was commanded by Lieut. - 
Col. Oswald, who gave $1,000 towards the expenses. The first team went 
in 1881, the second in 1883, the third in 1886, and the fourth in 1896. 
The Association offered prizes for the best essay written by officers of the 
Militia on Military subjects. The first prize, a medal presented by the 
Earl of Dufferin, was won by Lieut. -Col. Montizambert. 

Dominion Day — ist July, 1867, Canada by Queen's Proclamotion became a 
Dominion by the Union of Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia and New Bruns- 
wick. The Birth Day of the Canadian Confederacy is celebrated in all 
parts of Canada with great ec/at. 

Dominion General Elections— (See ^'Simultaneous Polling.") 

Dominion Notes Act extended throughout the whole Dominion, 1876. 

Dominion Lands Survey— Arranged for in 1869 ; actual work of surveying 
began 1871. In 1874 and 1875 a system of triangulation was undertaken. 
Since 1875 the ruling points of the survey have been established astronomi- 
cally and telegraphically. In 1884 the system of surveys was extended so 
as to include the 40 mile railway belt in British Columbia as well as 
Manitoba and the North-West. In 1886 topographical surveys of the 
western mountainous region was begun. In 1887 the phototopographical 
method of survey was introduced. The total area set out for settlement to 
end of 1896 is 78,500,000 acres. 

Dual Langfuag^e— Neither in General Murray's manifesto of 22nd May, 1760, 
the Articles of Capitulation of Montreal, of the 8th September, 1760, 



First Things in Canada. 73 

General Amherst's proclamation of the 22nd September, 1760, nor in the 
ordinances issued by General Gage in the same year, is there any specific 
mention of the retention of the French language by the Canadians, or of 
the enforced substitution of the Engiish language. The form of govern- 
ment introduced by General Amherst was t^sed upon justice administered 
through common sense and honesty. The proceedings of the courts estab- 
lished under Gage*s ordinances were carried on in French, because, outside 
of the British garrison, everybody spoke only French. 

The first meeting of the Legislature of Lower Canada, under the Act of 
1 791, took place on the 17th December, 1792, when the Lieut-Governor, 
who had summoned the Assembly to the Legislative Chamber, desired 
them to return to their own chamber and elect a Speaker, ** which speech," 
the Journal of the day's proceedings says, "was repeated in the French 
language by order and in presence of His Excellency the Governor- 
General." The motion to postpone the election for a day was repeated in 
French, and Mr. Panel's amendment, moved in French, was repeated in 
English. On the 27th December, Mr. Grant moved that the Journals be 
in the English language as necessary for the original record, and that 
translations be made into French for the use of those who desired them. 
Mr. Papineau moved in amendment to insert after the word ** English," 
the words ** or French language as it may have been entered in the original 
minutes, without drawing into precedent for the future." This carried, 
21 to 14. Shortly after by a vote of 26 to 13, it was resolved that the 
House should keep two registers — one in French and one in English. The 
rule for the introduction of Bills was decided as follows : Bills relative to 
the criminal laws of England in force in the Province, and to the rights of 
the Protestant clergy as specified in Chapter 31, Acts of 31st, George IIL, 
to be introduced in the English language, and Bills relative to the laws, 
customs, usages and civil rights of the province to be introduced in the 
French language — in order to preserve the unity of the texts. 

In 1793, the Legislature of Upper Canada passed a resolution that for 
the benefit of the French people in the west part of the province, the 
resolutions of the House should be translated into French. Nearly fifty 
years after, Lord Durham, in his report of 1839, recommended that, as 
one of the conditions on which the two provinces should be united, English 
alone should be the official language. The Union Act of 1841 abolished 
the employment of the French language " in all documents having to do 
with the new Legislature and its proceedings." The clause in the Act 
was practically a dead letter from the first, so far as the proceedings in 
the chamber were concerned, since the French members spoke in their 
mother tongue when they pleased. " In fact during the interdict the 
French language was heard far more frequently in the debates than it has 
been in the regime of equality. " An address to the Queen in favour of 
the restoration of the language was presented in 1845. ^f* Gladstone, 
in a despatch dated February 3rd, 1846, authorized Earl Cathcart to inform 
the L^islature at the opening of the session that Her Majesty was 
inclined to entertain the prayer of the address. An Act was passed by 
the Imperial Parliament m 1847, to give effect to the Queen's wishes and 
to remove the restriction. Lord Elgin was the first Governor-General to 
read the speech from the throne in both English and French (1847). The 
British North America Act recognized the equality of the two languages. 
Dual Representation abolished 1873, ^^^ -^ct providing that any member of 
the liouse of Commons elected and returned to any Legislative Assembly, 



74 First Things in Canada. 

or appointed to any Legislative Council, shall thereby void his election to 
the House of Commons. 
Earthquake — First recorded as happening in Canada, 1638. The day is 
called in Quebec ** Le jour de St. Barnab6. The earthquake of 1663 is 
called the ** Great Earthquake," and well deserves the distinction. Ii 
took place on the 26th January, and it is said of the effects produced that 
"the doors opened and shut of themselves, with a fearful clatter; the 
bells rang without being touched ; the walls split asunder ; the floors 
separated and fell down ; the fields put on the appearance of precipices, 
and the mountains seemed to be moving out of their places. Many small 
rivers and fountains were dried up ; in others, the water became sulphar- 
ous, and in some the channel in which they ran before was so altered that 
it could not be distinguished. Many trees were torn up and thrown to a 
considerable distance, and some mountains appeared to be much broken 
and moved. Half way between Tadousac and Quebec two mountains 
were shaken down and formed a point of land which extended half-a- 
quarter of a leagne into the River St. Lawrence. The Island aux Coudres 
became larger than it was before, and the channel of the river itself was 
much altered." 
Education — See School Annals. 

Education — Ladies' Society for promoting Education and Industry in Canada, 

founded 21st October, 1826, at Montreal; Countess Dalhousie, patroness. 

Education of Women— Sir Donald Smith (Lord Strathcona and Mount 

Royal) is the first founder of a university annex for women in Canada, 

1887. 

Eig^ht Hours a day system first adopted in Canada by the Public Printing 

Bureau, May 1st, 1896. 
Eisteddfod — The first, in Canada, was held in Montreal, 1st March, 1890. 
Elections, General, Dominion — The first General Elections for Members of 
the House of Commons, were held in September, 1867. Subsequent 
General Elections were held in most of the electoral districts as follows :— 
Tuly 29th, 1872. June 20th, 1882. 

January 22nd, 1874. February 22nd, 1887. 

Septr. loth, 1878. March 5th, 1891. 

The General Elections of 1887 were held on the same day in all the 
Provinces, with the exception of British Columbia. Subsequent ones 
were held on the same day in all the Provinces. (See ** Simultaneous 
Polling." 
Elections-General, Provincial— Dates at which held since Confederation : 
For Ontario. For Quedec. 

September 1867. Aug. and Sept. . 1867. 

14th March 1871. June and July 1871. 

nth January 1875. 30th June. 1875. 

5th June 1879. 24th April 1876. 

27th February 1883. 25th November .. 1881. 

28th December . . 1886. 14th October 1886. 

nth June 1890. 17th June 1890. 

19th June 1894. 8th March 1892. 

nth May 1897. 

For Nova Scotia. For New Brunswick. 

September. . 1867. June 1870. 

May 1871. June 1874. 



First Things in Canada. 75 

Nova Scotia — Con. New Brunswick — Con. 

December 1874. June 1878. 

loth September . . 1878. 1 5th June 1882. 

13th June 1882. 26th April 1886. 

2 1 St April 1890. 2 1 St January 1890. 

1 5th March 1894. 22nd October 1892. 

20th April 1897. i6th October 1895. 

For Manitoba, For British Columbia, 

27th December . . . 1870. October 187 1. 

23rd December . . . 1874. September 1875. 

nth December . . 1878. May 1878. 

9th December 1879. July 1882. 

23rd January 1883. 7th July 1886. 

9th December 1886. 13th June 1890. 

nth July 1888. July 1894. 

July 1892. 

1 5th January 1896. 

For North- West Territories, 
31st October 1894. 

For Prince Edward Island, 

April 1883. 30th June 18 . 

loth August 1873. 30th January i8§ 

2nd April 1879. I3tb December . . . 189J 

1st May 1883. 2istjuly 1897. 

Electoral Franchise— The bill giving the Dominion generally the same 
electoral franchise was introdured in the House of Commons by Sir J^hn 
Macdonald on 19th March, 1885 ; motion for second reading, i6th April. 
On 3rd July bill passed its third reading after 30 divisions, thus contribut- 
ing to make the session of 1885 the longest in the history of the Confeder- 
ation — 24 weeks and 4 days. 

Electricity — Railways. Electricity was first used as a motive power, in 
Canada, in 1883. ^ short piece of track was laid on the grounds of the 
Toronto Industrial Exhibition. The motor did not ** mote " to any extent 
owing to the dynamo used on the car being a double armature one, with 
only one pole piece to each armature. The following year, 1884, produced 
the first practicable road. In comparison with the modern electric car it 
would be thought a crude affair, but it '*got there," though with the 
expenditure of a considerable amount cff fuel and supplies. The current 
was taken from copper slips laid in a wooden box between the rails. In 
1885 the track was lengthened, and the overhead wire and trolley-arm 
used. In 1891 the possibility of combatting the real old-fashioned winter 
in the deep snow area which includes Quebec, Montreal and Ottawa was 
successfully demonstrated by the Ottawa Electric Railway Co. Montreal 
followed in 1892, and Quebec in 1897. 

In 1896 there were 30 railways in Canada the motive power of which 
was electricity, with 569 miles of railway, and an equipment of 947 motor 
cars, 360 trailers, 62 sweepers, and 1,315 motors. The number of miles 
run during the year was 22,772,631, and the number of passengers carried 
was 73,972,414, giving 3^ passengers carried to each mile run. 
Electric Heater — ^The first city in Canada and in the world to have 



76 First Thihgs in Canada. 

established in it a special electric heating service frum a central statioo 
was Ottawa, Ont. It was built by Mr. Ahearn of Messrs. Ahearn k 
Soper, Ottawa, for the foreman's office, Ottawa water works, in March, 
1892. Three of the electric street railway cars were equipped each witit 
a 500-volt stove in February, 1892. 
Elkctric Banquet — An electric banqiiet was served to 75 guests in the 
Windsor Hotel, Ottawa, in 1892, the entire bill of fare being cooked in 
an electric oven, resembling a baker's oven, the invention of Mr. Ahearn. 
This was the first time an electricity cooked banquet was provided. 
Electric Mail Cars— First used m Ottawa Nov. 9th, 1893, to convey 
Her Majesty's mails from the central post office to the several railway 
stations of the city. 
Electric Motor Carriage — A "horseless" carriage made in Canada 

first appeared in Toronto Dec. 5th, J896. 
Electric motive force, first employed in connection with newspapers ia 

Canada by the St. Catharines News^ October, 1887. 
Electric Street Lighting— In July, 1886, the streets oif Montreal were 
first lighted by electricity. In 18IS, the first incandescent lights were 
supplied. 

The first arc lights used for street lighting in Ottawa were started Dec., 
1883. 
Electric light first used in Montreal in 1877 by the Montreal Harbour 
Commissioners. 

Electricity first applied as a motive power to canals in the Sault Ste. Marie 
(Canadian) canal in 1895. 

Eng^iish Law introduced into Upper Canada, 1788. 

Engravings on Wood —A psalter of David, printed in Montreal by Fleury 
Mesplet, contains some small wood engravings, s^d to be the first made 
in Canada. — 

Entomological Society of Ontario —Org^anized in Toronto, i6th April, 
1863. On 1st August, 1868, the society began the publication of a 
monthly magazine — the Canadian Entomologists which has been regularly 
issued ever since. In 1870 the Society began the publication of a series 
of annual reports on economic and popular entomology, which are pre- 
sented to the Legislature of Ontario by the Society. Twenty-seven valu 
able and interesting volumes with copious illustrations have been issued. 
The headquarters of the Society are in London, Ont. Active branches 
have been formed in Montreal and Toronto. The Society is always ready 
to investigate any outbreak of destructive insects that may be reported. 

Epworth League— Formed 15th May, 1889, and embraces the adherents oi 
the Methodist denomination in the United States and Canada. It has 
about 1,860 chapters in Canada, with a membership of 80,000. The total 
membership is now (1897) about two millions. Its badge is a Maltese 
cross, and the motto, "Look up; Lift up." The first convention wa 
held June 29th to July 2nd, 1893, in Cleveland, U.S.A. Its second in 
June, 1896, in Chatanooga, U.S.A., and its third in July, 1897, ia 
Toronto, Canada. 

Esquimalt and Nanaimo Railway — First railway on Vancouver Island 
opened by Sir John Macdonald, August, 1886. 

Evangelical Alliance— Dominion Evangelical Alliance, formed in Montrea), 
October, 1888. Its model is the British Evangelical Alliance, 1846. 

Exchange, Grain and Produce, of Winnipeg, formed Nov. 1887. 

Exhibitions— First Provincial, held in Toronto, October 1846. 



First Things in Canada. 77 

exhibitions held in Canada of a Dominion character which received Federal 
Government grants, are : — 

Year. Amount of Grant. Held at 

1878 $ 5,000 Ottawa 

1880 5,000 Montreal 

1881 5,000 Halifax 

1882 5,000 Kingston 

1883 10,000 St.John,N.B. 

1884 10,000 Ottawa and Montreal 

(5,000 each) 

1885 10,000 London 

1886 10,000 *Sherbrooke, P.Q. 

1887 10,000 Toronto 

1891 10,000 Sherbrooke 

1895 25,000 Regina 

Exhibitions — The first on record is one promoted by Gilles Hocquart, 
Intendant of New France (1731-1748). He was a model Governor. He 
encouraged ship-building, facilitated communication between Quebec and 
Montreal and opened roads so that in 1734 M. de Boiscterc was the first 
one to make the journey between the two centres entirely by land. He 
sent explorers for minerals as far as Sault Ste. Marie. He developed the 
export trade in lumber, encouraged tobacco-growing, and finally decided 
upMOn having an exhibition to give a general view of the resources of the 
Province. In order to make it scientific as well as industrial and 
statistical, he deputed Abbe Gosselin and Dr. LaCroix to classify and name 
the trees and plants. Products of the mines, and the fisheries ; the forest 
wealth, woods and furs ; fruits of durable kinds and grains were on 
exhibition. After exhibiting them for a sufficient time, Hocquart sent the 
whole exhibition to France. The exhibition took place in 1737, thus ante- 
dating, and possibly suggesting, the earliest Industrial Exhibition in 
Europe, that of France in 1798. In 1747 M. de la Galissonni^re made a 
large collection of the flora and fauna of Canada, as well as of its minerals. 
He collected information as to the uses to which the Indians put the 
plants, &c. The collection was exhibited in France. 
Exhibitions — Have been held in various countries ; those specially interesting 
to Canada which took place outside of Candda, are : — 

Place. Date. Character. 

London 185 1 International, General. 

New York 1853 

Paris 1855 " 

London 1862 " 

Dublin 1865 

Paris 1867 

Vienna 1873 

Philadelphia 1876 *« 

Sydney, N. S. Wales 1877 

Paris 1878 

Sydney, Australia 1879 ** " 

Melbourne 1880-1 

* The Exhibition at Sherbrooke, in 1891, was a Dairy Exhibition. 



78 First Things in Canada. 

Place. Date. Character. 

South Kensington 1883 International, Special (Fisheries.) 

Antwerp 1885 " 

London 18^ Special (Colonial and 

Indian. ) 

Liverpool 1887 Jubilee. 

Saltaire... 1887 

Glasgow 1888 Special. 

Jamaica 1891 International, GeneraL 

Chicago 1893 

In the London Exhibition of 1 851, the several Provinces were not 
separated, the exhibits being all placed under the head of North American 
Colonies. The division was into groups, as follows : 
Group I. Raw material and produce — (a) of the Mineral {d) Vegetable, and 

(i) Animal Kingdoms. - 

Group 2. Machinery — (a) Machinery for direct use and {6) Manufacturing 

machines. 
Group 3. Manufactures finished and fit for use — (a) Textile fabrics, (^) 

Metallic, vitreous and ceramic manufactures, and {cj Miscellaneous. 
Group 4. Fine Arts. 

There were 195 Exhibitors from British North America, 92 of whom 
were in group i ; 29 in group 2 ; 72 in group 3, and 2 in group 4. 25 
medals and 147 honourable mentions were secured ; 15 medals and 30 
honourable mentions going to group i ; i medal and i honourable mention 
to group 2 ; 9 medals and 16 honourable mentions to group 3 ; and no 
medals and no honourable mentions to group 4. Of the prizes to g^roup 
I, Mineral products secured 3 medals and 3 honourable mentions ; sub- 
stances used as food gained 10 medals and 12 honourable mentions. Vege- 
table and Animal products, 2 medals and 1 5 honourable mentions. Of the 
9 medals and 16 honourable mentions in group 3, 6 medals and 5 hononrable 
mentions were for textile fabrics; 8 honourable mentions for metallic, 
vitreous and ceramic manufactures, and 3 medals and 3 honourable men- 
tions for miscellaneous manufactures. 

In the New York Exhibition, 1853, there were 152 Exhibitors from the 
Provinces. These secured i silver medal, 19 bronze medals and 46 honour- 
able mentions. Nova Scotia obtained 2 bronze medals ; Prince Cdward 
Island, 1 bronze medal ; New Brunswick, i honourable mention ; all the 
others going to the Province of Canada. The silver medal was obtained 
by W. Antrobus Hoi well, Quebec, for an ingeniously constructed fruit 
gatherer. 

In the Paris Exhibition of 1855, there were 321 Canadian Exhibitors. 
These obtained i grand medal of honour, i medal of honour, 13 ist class 
medals, 30 2nd class, and 43 honourable mentions ; in all 88 prizes. These 
Exhibitors were from the Province of Canada. 

In the London Exhibition of 1862, there were 306 Exhibitors from the 
Provinces now forming the Dominion of Canada, divided as follows : — 

Province of Canada 199 

New Brunswick 30 

Nova Scotia 6$ 

British Columbia 5 

Vancouver Island .... 4 , 6 

Prince Edward Island I 

1^ 



First Things in Canada. 79 

These secured 100 medals and 50 honourable mentions. Canada 
obtained 63 medals and 28 honourable mentions ; New Brunswick,* 9 
medals and 9 honourable mentions ; Nova Scotia, 19 medals and 11 hon- 
ourable mentions ; Prince Edward Island, 5 medals and i honourable 
mention ; British Columbia and Vancouver Island, 4 medals and I honour- 
able mention. The total number of Exhibitors was 26,348, of which 8,487 
belonged to the British Empire. In all 7,017 medals, and 5,304 honour- 
able mentions were distributed. Taking all the Exhibitors, each 100 
received 27. Taking the Canadians, each 100 exhibitors received 32. 

In the Dublin Exhibition of 1865, there were 204 Exhibitors from the 
Provinces now forming the Dominion ; 132 from the Province of Canada, 
69 from Nova Scotia, and 3 from Vancouver Island. These received 45 
medals, and 47 honourable mentions ; 25 medals going to Canada, and' 
20 to Nova Scotia ; of the honourable mentions, 25 went to Canada, and 
22 to Nova Scotia. 

In the World's Fair, Paris, 1867, there were 599 Exhibitors from the 
Dominion. These received 123 prizes, viz., medals, 3 gold, 21 silver and 
33 bronze, the remainder (66) were honourable mentions. The total num- 
ber of exhibitors was 50,226, and of the awards 15,702. 

In the Vienna Exhibition of 1873, Canada took no part as exhibitor. 
She sent representatives whose reports are to be found in the report of the 
Minister of Agriculture for 1873. 

In the Philadelphia Exhibition of 1876, 564 Centennial medals were 
taken by Canadians. The Canadian Government, with the object of 
inducing Canadians to exhibit in Philadelphia, offered gold, silver and 
bronze medals as prizes. Of these 423 were awarded, viz., 13 gold, 178 
silver, and 232 bronze. 

In the Sydney, New South Wales, Exhibition of 1877, Canada sent a 
large xnraiber of exhibits from the Philadelphia Exhibition, but no awards 
were given. 

In the Paris Universal Exposition of 1878, there were 534 Canadian 
Exhibitors, and they received 264 awards, viz., 2 grand medals, 24 gold, 
46 silver, 92 bronze, and 100 honourable mentions. 

In the Sydney (Australia) Exhibition of 1879, Canadians secured 23 
awards, consisting i gold medal, 2 first degrees of special merit, 11 first 
degrees of merit, 6 highly commended, and 3 ** commended." 

In the Melbourne Exhibition of 1880-1, it does not appear that Canada 
sent any exhibits. 

In the Fisheries Exhibition of 1883, held in South Kensington, the 
exhibits from the Dominion were almost all entered and shown in the name 
of the Dominion of Canada, The awards to Canada consisted of 31 gold 
medals, 23 silver, and 6 bronze, and 6 diplomas. 

In the Antwerp Universal Exhibition of 1885, Canada's share of awards 
numbered no, divided into 3 diplomas of honour, 13 gold medals, 30 
silver medals, 33 bronze medals, and 31 honourable mentions. 

In the Colonial and Indian Exhibition held in London, in 1886, there 
were no awards, but each exhibitor received a commemorative medal and 
diploma. Canadian Exhibitors received 2,830 of these out of a total of 
10,652 distributed. 

In the Royal Jubilee Exhibition held in Liverpool, (England) in 1887, 
and in the Exhibition held in the same year in Saltaire, the Canadian 
exhibits consisted mainly of a selection made from the collection previously 
shown at the Colonial and Indian Exhibition. 






8o , First Things in Canada. 

In the Exhibition held in Glasgow, in 1 888, the Canadian exhibits con- 
sisted for the most part of a collection previously shown at the Colonial 
and Indian Exhibition. 

In the Jamaica Exhibition of 1891, the awards to Canada numbered 206, 
viz., 16 diplomas of honour, 91 gold, 70 silver, and 15 bronze medals, and 
14 honourable mentions. The total awards to all countries numbered 
1,148. 

In the Chicago World's Columbian Exposition of 1893, Canadians 
received 2,229 awards, 1,103 bronze medals, and 1,126 diplomas. 
The space allotted to Canada (British Provinces) — 
In 185 1, fanned a total of 10,368 square feet. 
1876 " *• 48,520 

1886 ** " 108,725 " 

1893 " ** 106,526 *' " 

The following is a statement of the cost of the severa Exhibitions to the 
Dominion Government since Confederation : — 

1876 Philadelphia Exhibition $93»549 

1877 Melbourne " 27,592 

1878 Paris *« 116,024 

1886 Antwerp and Colonial and Indian Exhibition 314,656 

1891 Jamaica Exhibition 21,867 

1893 Chicago ** (to June, 1896) 242,514 



Total $81 5,902 

Explorers connected with Canada : — 

John Cabot discovered Cape Breton 1497 

Jean Denys ** Gulf of St. Lawrence 1506 

Sebastian Cabot " Hudson Bay 1517 

Jean Verrazano ** Nova Scotia 1 524 

Jacques Cartier " River St. Lawrence 1534 

Samuel de Champlain ... " Lakes Champlain, Huron, 

Ontario and Nipissing. . . 1609-15 

Pere Nicolet " Lake Michigan 1615 

Peres Brebceuf and Chau- 

minot ** Lake Erie 1640-1 

Peres Jogues and Raym- 

bault " Lake Superior 1641 

Pere Albanal ** James Bay 1672 

Verandrye " The Western Prairies 1743 

James Cook " Vancouver Isl'd (west coast). 1778 

Alexander Mackenzie ... " The Mackenzie river 1789 

George Vancouver * * British Columbia (mainland). 1 792 

Simon Eraser " Eraser and Columbia rivers. 1806-08 

A. R. C. Selwyn explored The Valley of the N. Thomp- 
son 1871 

A. R. C. Selwyn " The Peace River region . . . 1875 

George Dawson •* Eraser River and Coast 

Ranges 1875 

Robert Bell ** Eastern Hudson Bay r^on 1877 

George Dawson ** Queen Charlotte Islands. . . 1878 

Robert Bell •* Nelson and Hayes rivers. . . 1878-80 

George Dawson ** Northern British Columbia. 1879 

A. P. Low " Labrador Peninsula 1884-5 



First ,Things in Canada. 8i 

George Dawson explored Yukon Territory 1887 

Wm. Ogilvie ** Upper Porcupine region . . . 1888 

R. G. McG>nnell.. ...... " Liard River region 1888 

R. G. McConnell " Athabaska region 1889-90 

Robert Bell ** Region round James Bay . . 189$ 

Henry O'SuTlivan ...... " Beyond sources of Ottawa.. 1895 

Expedition — First military expedition sent out by the Dominion was under 
Garnet Wolseley, arriving at Fort Garry Sept. 24th, 1870. (See " Re- 
bellion.") 

Experimental Farmff— The establishment of these was authorized by Act of 
Parliament, 1886, under the direction of Hon. Sir John Carling, the 
Minister of Agriculture. 

These farms are five in number, and' contain in all about 3,200 acres of 
land. There are a central farm located at Ottawa, and branch farms in 
Nappan, Nova Scotia; for the Maritime Provinces; at Brandon, for 
Manitoba ; at Indian Head, for' the' North-west Territories ; and at 
Agassiz, for British Columbia. At all these farms the work consists 
largely in submitting actual observations in the field to scientific tests, and 
in the application of the best results of scientific knowledge to matters of 
every-day importance on every farm throughout Canada. The principal 
officers are the Director, Agriculturist, Horticulturist, Chemist, Entomol- 
c^ist, Botanist, Foreman of Forestry, and Poultry Manager. 

Export Duty — New Brunswick, in 1844, imposed an export duty on pine 
lunnber of I/- for every 40 cubic feet ; on spruce, juniper and hardwood 
timber and masts and spars, of 9d for every 40 cubic feet ; of i/- on every 
i,€XX) superficial feet of saw logs or sawed lumber, and of 2/- on each and 
every hacmatac or Juniper knee, root or futtock shipped or otherwise 
exported from the province. This was done for the purpose of providing 
revenue from the timber, logs and lumber floated down the St. John 
river for export, under the Treaty of 1842 ; the revenue thus derived being 
largely spent in making the river navigable for rafts, etc. When the Reci- 
procity Treaty of 1854 was negotiated, the people of Maine, interested in 
using the River St. John for their i<^, etc., succeeded in having the Act 
put in abeyance. It revived on the abrogation of the Reciprocity Treaty. 
In the negotiations for the Washington Treaty of 1871, it was arranged 
that the export duty imposed by New Brunswick on Maine logs should be 
given up, one of the quids pro quo being that the transport trade then to 
be carried on under Article XXX of the Treaty of 187 1 might be suspended 
in the event of a year elapsing without the renewal of the export duty. In 
1873, the Federal Parliament passed an Act by the terms of which the 
Province of New Brunswick was offered the sum of $150,000 annually as 
indemnity for the loss of such duties and of the right to impose them. Sir 
Leonard Tilley, in 1873, stated that, judging from the reduction in the 
amount of duties collected after the Treaty of 187 1 came into force, he 
thought the loss of revenue amounted to $200,000 a year. Parliament 
offered $150,000, and the Legislature of New Brunswick accepted the offer. 

Extradition Treaties— The earliest Extradition Treaty affecting Canada is 
that made between Great Britain and the United Slates. The extradition 
proceedings in Canada are governed by the Extradition Act, Chap. 142, 
Revised Statutes of Canada, 1886. This Act applies to any foreign state 
with which there is an extradition arrangement. 

The Imperial authorities, by Order in Council, exempt Canada from 
the operation of the Imperial Acts of 1870 and 1873, so long as the Can- 



82 First Things in Canada. 

adian Extradition Act remains in force. The following are the countries 
with which the United Kingdom has extradition arrangements whid 
apply to Canada : — 

Argentine Republic May 22, 1889 

Austria -Hungary Dec. 3, 1873 

Belgium May 20, 1876 

Belgium July 23, 1877 

Belgium. .' April2i, 1887 

Brazil Nov. 13, 1872 

Columbia Oct. 27, 1888 

Denmark Mar. 31 , 1873 

Ecuador, ratified Feb. 19, 1886 

France Aug. 14, 1876 

Germany May 14, 1872 

Guatemala July 4, 1885 

Hayti Dec 7, 1874 

lUly Feb. 5, 1873 

Italy May 7, 1873 

Liberia Dec, 16, 1892 

Luxembourg Nov. 24, 1880 

Mexico Sept. 7, 1886 

Monaco Dec 17, 1891 

Netherlands (India only) June 19, 1874 

Orange Free State June 20, 1890 

Portugal Nov. 30, 1892 

Roumania ■ Mar. 21, 1893 

Russia Nov. 24, 1886 

Salvador June 23, 1881 

Spain June 4, 1878 

Spain Feb. 19, 1889 

Sweden and Norway June 26, 1873 

Switzerland Nov. 26, 1880 

Tonga* Nov. 29, 1879 

Tunis. Dec 31, 1889 

United States (Art X) Aug. 9, 1843 

United States .' July 12, 1889 

Uruguay Mar. 26, 1884 

Uruguay Mar. 20, 1891 

Factory Cotton—The first cotton mill in Canada was established at Sher 
brooke, Province of Quebec, in 1844, an incorporated company havioj 
been formed to operate it with a capital of ;f 12,000. Among its promotef 
was A. T. Gait (afterwards Sir Alexander). The mill had 1,200 spindles 
and manufactured cotton sheetings. Adam Lomas was manager. Afte 
running successfully for several years the mill was destroyed by fire ai« 
never rebuilt. ' The next cotton mill in Canada was started, in 1853, i 
Montreal by F. W. Harris. It had a capacity of 1,500 spindles and 41 
looms, and made tickings, denims and seamless bags. The first 'waddioj 
and batting mill was started by the same man, in 1855, as an adjunct ti 
his cotton mill. It had 13 carding machines, and produced 6,000 yaid 
of wadding and 1,200 pounds of batting a day. The oldest cottoa mill ' 



* Tonga subjects escaping to British Territories only. 



First Things in CAWM^tu 83 

Canada to-day is that of Wm. Parker & Son, St. John, N.B., which was -X. 
established ih 1861. The census returns of 1891 showed that there were { 
in Canada, at that date, 22 cotton mills. Of these, nine with an annual 
average output of $300,000 each, were in Ontario ; five in Quebec with an 
annual average output of $726,000 each ; five in New Brunswick with an 
annual average output of $350,000 each ; two in Nova Scotia with an 
output averaging yearly $213,400 each. 

The first export of cotton goods of Canadian make was in 1886, on the 
the completion of the Canadian Pacific Railway. In 1887, the total 
export was 19,568,000 yards, of which 30 per cent, was Canadian, and 70 
per cent. United States. In 1896, the total export was 5i,390»«»y*'<*f» 
of which 29 per cent, was Canadian. The whole went to China via 
Canadian Pacific Railway. 

farmer — The first farmer m Canada was Louis Hubert, who came from. >. 
Acadia to Quebec in 1617, with his family, maintaining himself and them '« — y^ 
by tilling the soil. He was the first to utilite the salt water marshes of ' 
the Bay of Fundy by building dykes to keep out the tides, 

Tenian Invasioti, first threatened in 1866 ; first actual conflict June 2nd, 1866, 
at Ridgeway, on the Niagara frontier. A large body of Fenians assembled 
at Ogdensburg, but the Canadian forces and a gun-boat reduced them to 
inaction. On the 8th June some 2,000 Fenians crossed the frontier near 
St. Albans, but beat a precipitate retreat when the Canadian forces came 
within touch. Canada had 40,000 volunteers under arms. The Habeas 
Corpus Act was temporarily suspended, and the country speedily cleared of 
the Fenian element, several Fenians being convicted and sentenced to 
death. L. 

''eudal System established in Canada 1627. It remained in force till 1854, — T 
when it was abolished. 

^ire Engine — The town of Cote St Paul, Quebec, has an engine built in 
1774 by Phillips, London, England. Berthier recently sold a fire engine 
built in 1776. The towo of Shelburne, Nova Scotia, possesses a fire V' ^ 
engine presented to it by King George III in 1786. It was landed at the ^ 
port by an English man-of-war. His Majesty presented it to mark his 
appreciation of the loyalty of the United Empire Loyalists who left their 
possessions in the revolted American colonies and settled in Shelburne. 

^ire Insurance— The first company to offer insurance against fire to the 
people of British North America was the Phcenix of London, which began 
business in Canada in 1804. The Quebec Fire Insurance Company began 
business in 18 18, and has continued ever since. The Halifax Fire Insurance ' . 
Co. began in 1819. The first bill relating to fire insurance, in Upper 
Canada, was passed, 1831. In the first year of Confederation (year ended 
30th June, 1868), the amount at risk in the several companies reporting 
to the Dominion Government was equal to $56 per head of the then 
population. In 187 1 it was $53 per head ; in 1881, $107, and in 1891, 
$158. Thirty-five companies reported themselves as doing business in 
Canada in 1895, against 28 in 1875. Eleven companies that were in 
business in 1875 had gone out of it in the 20 years. From 1869 to 1895 
inclusive, the total value of the policies taken out amounted to $12,274,- 
414,888 ; the total premiums paid, to $119,011,003, and the total losses 
paid to $82,821,995. Of these amounts, Canadian companies took 
$3,201,989,273 of the risks, received $30,537,874 of premiums, and paid 
out $21,890,005 for losses ; United States companies took $1,162,876,605 
of risks, received $11,639,196 premiums, and paid out $7)940,328 for 
losses ; British companies took $7>909,549,oio of risks, received $7^r 



.84 First Things in Canada. 

831,156 premiums, and paid out for losses $52,991,622. The Canadian 
companies have taken 26.08 per cent, of the risks, received 26.00 pei 
cent, of the premiums, and paid 26.40 per cent of the losses. The United 
States companies have taken 9.50 of the risks, received 9.80 per cent, of 
the premiums, and paid 9.60 per cent, of the losses ; the Britisn companies 
have taken 64.42 per cent, of the risks, received 64.20 of the premiums, 
and paid 64 per cent of the losses. Taken together, the fire insurance 
companies have received $36,189,048 more than they have paid out for 
losses by fire. During this period there were only two years in which the 
losses paid for were more than the premiums— 1869 and 1877, the latter 
the year of the St. John fire, when the losses paid were about 2^ times 
the premiums of the year. 1893 was the year with the largest fire risks. 
1895 was the year with the largest cash premiums received by the com- 
panies, and the year with the largest aggregate of losses paid by the 
companies. 
Fisheries — The first grant of the fisheries of Canada was made by the King 
of France to de Monts in 1603. The coast line of the Atlantic provinces 
covers a distance of 5,000 miles and that of British Columbia 7,200 miles. 
The Great Lakes (Canadian portion) cover an area of 36,500 square 
miles, and over all the land are innumerable lakes and rivers well stocked 
with excellent fish. During the period 1860-95 the total value of the 
yield of the fisheries of Canada amounts to $339> 766,000, an average of 
$14,800,000 a year. By provinces the value of the catch during the 
period 1869-95 was distributed as follows : — 

Ontario : 6.64 per cent. Quebec 13.00 per cent. 

Nova Scotia. .. 43.70 ** N. Brunswick 19.20 ** 

P. £. Island. .. 6.04 ** Manitoba and 

B. Columbia.. 10.04 " N.W.T 1.38 " 

Nova Scotia had in 1885 46.8 per cent., and in 1895 30*7 P^' cent. 
British Columbia ** 6.0 " " " 21.8 " 

The total value of fishing vessels, boats, nets and other fishing material 
in 1895, was $9,253,848. Over 1,200 schooners and steam tugs valued at 
$2,318,300, and manned by 9,800 sailors ; and 61,500 fishermen, employ- 
ing 34,268 boats, were engaged in the fisheries in 1895. 

Value of Codfish taken in period 1869-95. . . . $102,813,832 
" Herring ** '* •* .... 51,463,298 

" Lobsters " " " .... 46,759,098 

" Salmon " " " .... 4i»738,79i 

Fisheries, Canadian — First claimed in 1877 by the United States as belong- 
ing to them, in common with British subjects, on the ground that Massa- 
chusetts had helped to wrest the Maritime Provinces from the French. 
This claim was advanced by the counsel employed by the United States 
to present their case before the Halifax Commission (1877) appointed 
under the Washington Treaty of 187 1. It was met by the counsel for the 
Canadian side, showing that the Massachusetts Legislature presented their 
bill for services rendered, and that the British Parliament voted, and the 
British Government paid, ;^i 5,000 for the same. He suggested that i{ 
the United States would pay back the ;^ 15,000, with 125 years* interest 
(compounded), his clients would be fully satisfied to allow the United 
States' claim. They did not accept his offer. The money sent froiri 
Massachusetts to repay the cost of the Louisburg expedition, was sent ovef{ 
in silver, and the people of Boston saw seventeen trucks dragged up Kin 
street to the Treasury Office, laden with 217 chests full of Spanish dollar* 
(See Hutchison's life, giving an account of what was done with the money 



First Things in Canada. 85 

'isherieSy Canadian— These fisheries have been the subject of discussion 
between the United States and Great Britain from the date of the separa- 
tion. In the Treaty of 1783, which recc^^ized the independence of the 
United States, it was provided that the people of the United Slates should 
enjoy unmolested the right to take fish of every kind on the Grand 
Bank, and all the other banks of Newfoundland, and also in the Gulf 
of St. Lawrence, and at all other places in the sea where the inhabitants 
of both countries used at any time before to fish, and also that the 
inhabitants of the United States should have liberty to take fish of every 
kind on such parts of the coast of Newfoundland as British fishermen 
used (but not to dry or cure the same on that island), and also on the 
coasts, bays and creeks of all other of His Britannic Majesty's dominions 
in America ; and also that the American fishermen should have liberty to 
dry and cure fish in any of the unsettled bays, harbours and creeks 
of Nova Scotia, so long as the same remained unsettled. This stipulation 
gave the United States fishermen the right of practising their calling in 
the deep sea fisheries, but conveyed to them liberty to take and cure fish 
only on certain defined portions of the British North American coasts under 
expressed limitations. 

This Treaty continued to be the United States fishermen's charter until it 
was annulled by the War of 181 2. The Commissioners of Ghent, in 1814, 
discussed the question whether the fishing liberties had been forfeited by 
the War of 181 2. Mr. Adams suggested to his associates, and Mr. Clay 
embodied in a proposition to be presented to the British Commissioners, 
the principle that the United States held their rights of fishing by the 
same tenure that they held their independence ; that, unlike another class 
of treaties, the Treaty of 1783 should be regarded as perpetual, and of the 
nature of a deed in which the fisheries are an appurtenant of the soil con- 
veyed or parted with, and that therefore no stipulation was necessary or 
desirable to secure the perpetuity of the appendage more than of the terri- 
tory itself. The British Commissioners refused to deal with the United 
States on that basis, holding that complete forfeiture of the rights and 
liberties, under the Treaty of 1783, resulted from the War of ill 2. In 
the Treaty of Ghent, therefore, nothing is said about the Fishery question. 

After the peace, an American vessel was warned off the coast of Nova 
Scotia by an armed British ship in June, 1815, when about 45 miles from 
' Cape Sable, and her papers were endorsed " warned off the coast, and not 
to come within 60 miles." This proceeding led to protest and discussions 
which ended in the treaty of 18 18. This treaty was a compromise between 
the extreme views of both parties. 

By the terms of this convention United States fishermen have secured to 
them forever the liberty, ist. To take fish {a) on the southern coast of New- 
foundland from Cape Ray to the Rameau Islands ; {d) on the western and 
northern coasts of Newfoundland, and from Cape Ray to Quirpon Islands ; 
{c) on the the shores of the Magdalen Islands, and {d) on the southern 
coast of Labrador from Mount Joly to and through the Straits of Belle 
Isle, and thence northwardly indefinitely along the coast. 2nd. To dry 
and cure fish in any of the unsettled bays, harbours and creeks of the 
southern coast of Newfoundland and the coast of Labrador as described 
in the Treaty. 3rd. To be admitted to the bays and harbours of His 
Britannic Majesty's dominions in America, for the purpose of {a) shelter, 
{6) repairing damages, {c) purchasing wood, and {d) obtaining water, and 
for no other purpose whatever. 



86 First Things in Canada. 

The distinguishing features of this article, as compared with the stipuh> 
tions of 1783, are : (1) That the Americans gave up the catching along 
ceruin shores, and (2) secured increased focmties for drjring and curing 
their catch. In effect they surrendered the inshore fisheries, except oo 
certain shores, and secured the deep sea fisheries. 

In 1823, after an interval of comparative quiet, difficulties arose from 
the different interpretations given to the Treatv. In that year the American 
fishing vessel, ** Charles of York," was seized and sent to trial. In 1824, 
the '* Dotterel ** seized nine American fishing vessels. The United States 
authorities protested against the seizure of the "Charles," and Mr. Adding- 
ton answered ; ** By report of Capt. Arabin, it appotrs that the schooner 
was found at anchor in Shelburne Harbour, into which she had not been 
driven by stress of weather." The vessel was detained under Act 59, 
George III., Chap. 58, passed for the protection of the British fisheries,! 
in conformity with the stipulations of the Convention of 181 8, and was! 
subsequently condemned by the Vice- Admiralty Court at St. John, N.B. 

The British Government having complained of the encroachments by 
the vessels seized by the '* Dotterell," the United States SecreUry of State, 
in 1836, brought the correspondence to an end by addressing a letter to 
the Irtish authorities, stating that *' the President, desirous of avoiding just 
grounds of complaint on the part of the British Government, has directed 
the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct collectors of Customs to inform 
the masters, owners and others of vessels engaged in the fisheries, that 
complaints had been made, and to enj(Mn upon all a strict observance of 
the Umits assigned for taking, drying and curing fish by American fisher- 
men, under the convention of 1 818." 

In 1839, the President of the United States called upon the U. S. 
Department of State *' to report to him the Treaty stipulations which 
bear upon the subject (the seizure of American vessels on the coasts of 
Nova Scotia) ; the conflicting questions of right, if any, which have arisen 
under them ; and the nature and circumstances of the cases which have 
been presented to the United States Government by its citizens as infrac- 
tions of rights, on the part of the British authorities." 

Subsequently the Piesident ordered Lieut. John Payne to proceed in a 
United States war vessel to the Nova Scotian coaist and report. He] 
reported in December, 1839, that " the questions on which dispute may 
arise are : (i) the meaning of the word " bay " in the convention of 181 8 ; 
(2) the right of resorting to ports for shelter and to procure wood and 
water. As to the first point the Nova Scotians claimed a right to exclude 
the Americans from all bays, including such large ones as the Bay of Fundy 
and the Bale des Chaleurs, and also to draw a Une from headland to head- 
land, the Americans not to approach within three miles of such line. On 
the other hand the Americans believed they had a right to fish anywhere, if 
not nearer than three miles to the land. With regard to the 2nd point, 
the Nova Scotians claimed a right to exclude vessels unless in actual dis- 
tress. The Americans claimed the right under the Convention to resort 
to the ports for shelter, whenever fi-om rough weather, calms or fogs, they 
could not prosecute, without risk or inconvenience, their calling at sea. 
The Nova Scotians insisted that the American fishing vessels should have 
been supplied, on leaving home, with wood and water for their intended 
cruise. The Americans affirmed that by the terms of the Convention they 
could resort to the ports to procure wocxl and water at their convenience I 
and without having to prove that untoward circumstances had compelled 
them to use up their wood by extending their cruise. 



First Things in Canada. 87 

Lieut. Payne reported tl^at the contention of the Nova Scotians, if carried 
out, would drive the Americans from those parts of the coast where were 
the most valuable fisheries, while if the ground maintained by the Ameri- 
cans were asserted it would be difficult to prevent them from procuring 
articles of convenience and particularly bait, from which they were pre- 
cluded by the Convention. 

The receipt of Lieut. Payne's report was followed by action on the part 
of the State Department at Washington. A series of communications 
passed between the two governments during 1843 ^^^ i^ an<l closed 
with a despatch from Lord Aberdeen of March loth, 1845, ^^ which he 
said '* the undersigned will confine himself to stating that after the most 
deliberate consideiation * • * Her Majesty's Government are con- 
strained to deny the r^ht of the United States citizens under the Treaty 
ot 181 8 to fish in that part of the Bay of Fundy which from its geographical 
position may properly be considered as included within the British 
possessions." Earl Aberdeen, however, stated that while holding to the 
right to exclude, the Imperial Government had decided to relax that right 
in £sivour of American fishermen. In reply to Lord Aberdeen's suggestion 
that a corresponding concession might be made by the United States to 
British fishermen by the admission of fish duty free, the American Minister 
gave as a reason against it that the British fishermen had advantages 
because they were '* able to use the net and seine to greater advantage in 
the small bays and inlets along the shore from which the United States 
fishermen are excluded." 

The next six years were years during which the fishery question remained 
quiescent in diplomatic circles though England retraced no step after 
opening the Bay of Fundy. 

The encroachments on the inshore fisheries however, were numerous, and 
by 1 85 1 had become so many that the Colonial Government determined 
to protect the fisheries. A convention of Colonial delegates was held in 
Toronto, and an agreement signed on the 21st June, 1 85 1, by which 
Canada, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick joined in the policy of protect- 
ing their fisheries by means of fast sailing schooners, the Imperial Govern- 
ment agreeing toco-operate. The United States' Government was informed 
of the concert and Daniel Webster, the then Secretary of State, drew up a 
paper in which he said "it would appear that by a strict and rigid construc- 
tion of Article I of the Treaty of 18 18, fishing vessels of the United States 
are precluded from entering the bays or harbours of the British Provinces 
except for the purposes of shelter, repairing damages and obtaining wood 
and water." 

The Treaty of 1854 put an end to the quarrels, and American fishing 
vessels entered British North American ports on the same terms as British 
fishing vessels. 

The United States Government having given notice of intention to 
abrogate the Treaty of 1854, delegates from the British North American 
Provinces went to Washington in January, 1866, to hold a conference with 
the authorities there on the subject, but were obliged to leave without any 
settlenr.ent, for the future, of the questions that would be revived on the 
expiry of the Treaty. 

In 1868 a committee of the United States House of Representatives 
proceeded to Prince Edward Island to effect an exceptional arrangement 
by legislative enactment by virtue of which United States' fishermen should 
obtain fishing and other privileges from the Island Province that would 



First Things in Canada. 

enable them to do without such privileges in the other Provinces. All the 
propositions made by the committee look it for granted that the Conven- 
tion of i8i8 regulated the fisheries. 

The Provincial authorities resorted at first, on the repeal of the Treaty, 
to a licensing svstem, each Province issuing licenses recognized by all, but 
the American hshermen refused to avail themselves of the permission thus 
given them to use the British North American fishing area. The old 
system of protection by fast sailing schooners was resorted to in 1870, the 
Order in Council dated January authorizing the commission of five swift- 
sailing schooners. The Imperial authorities co-operated as previously to 
the Treaty of 1854 and many seizures were made, the United States' 
fishermen disregarding the warning given them by Secretary Boutwell in a 
circular dated i6th May, 1870, in which he directed the several customs 
collectors in the United States seaports, *'to inform all masters of fishing 
vessels at the time of clearing that the authorities of the Dominion have 
terminated the system of granting fishing licenses, and that all fishermen of 
the United States are prohibited from the use of the inshore fisheries 
except so far as permitted in the first article of the Treaty of 18 1 8." 

President Grant, in his annual message to Congress in 1870, criticised 
severely the action of the Canadian Government in falling l^ck upon the 
stipulations of the Treaty of 18 18. Negotiations were begun, resulting in 
the Treaty of 187 1, under which United States fishermen were admitted 
to the inshore fisheries, to liberty to tranship their fares at Canadian piorts, 
etc., provision being made for an assessment of the amount of money to 
be paid by the United Stales Government for the privileges ceded. (See 
*• Fishery Commission.") 

In the presentation of their case before the Commissioners, the United 
States Counsel said, '* The United States maintain that the various inci- 
dental and reciprocal advantages of the Treaty (1871), such as the privilege 
of traffic, purchasing bait and other supplies are not the subjects of com- 
pensation, because the Treaty of Washington (1871) confers no such rights 
on the inhabitants of the United States, who now enjoy them merely by 
sufferance, and who can at any time be deprived of them." 

The Treaty of 1871 was abrogated as to its fishing clauses by the Con- 
gress of the United States, and ceased to be an operative instrument on 
the 1st July, 1885, the President, by proclamation dated 1st January, 1885, 
announcing that articles 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 30 and 32 would 
terminate on that date. 

Since the abrogation in 1885, of the Treaty of 187 1, the Americans have 
set up the plea that the Treaty of 1818 was modified by " the understand- 
ing and agreement of 1830." Contending that ** the Arrangement of 1830 '* 
is the charter of American vessels for trading purposes, the United States 
Government authorized the issue of Touch and Trade permits to their fish- 
ing vessels, and Article XXIX of the Treaty of 187 1 being retained among 
the non-abrogated clauses, they believed that they had successfully evaded 
one great source of loss to their fishermen, viz., the necessity of bearing 
away to a port in the United States to discharge their cargoes of fish. The 
Canadian Parliament passed in 1886 an Act regulating fishing by foreign 
vessels, under which vessels found in Canadian waters for any purpose not 
' permitted by Treaty or Convention should be forfeited. This Act, assented 
to by the Queen, interpreted the Order-in-Council of 1830, so as to make 
it plain that fishing vessels were not included in the category of vessels 
permitted to enter Canadian waters for trading purposes. (See Acts of 



First Things in Canada. 89 

1887, last Chapter being Chap. 114 of Acts of 1886 reserved for significa- 
tion of the Queen's pleasure.) 

In 1887 Great Britain and the United States, by the Queen and Presi- 
dent, named plenipotentiaries to negotiate a treaty with the object of 
removing the difficulties that had arisen concerning the interpretation of 
Article i of the Convention of 1818. This Treaty (Feby., 1888) fell 
through, the United States Senate refusing to ratify it. The protocol 
attached to it provided as a modus operandi, pending the ratification of 
the Treaty, that for a period of two years from the 15th Feby., 1888, the 
privileges of entering the harbours and bays of the Atlantic coasts of 
Canada and Newfoundland should be granted to the United States fishing 
vessels by annual license at a fee of $1.00 per ton, (i) for the purchase of 
bait, ice, spines, lines and all other supplies and outfits ;' (2) transhipment 
of catch and shipping of crew. (See Fishery Licenses.) 

Fishery Commission— under Articles 22 and 23 of the Washington Treaty 
of 1871, first met in Halifax, June 15th, 1877. The result of their investi- 
gations was the award (dated 23rd Novemljer, 1887) to Canada and New- 
foundland of $5,500,000 as a return for privileges granted the United 
States, under Article 18 of the Treaty. The amount was paid by the 
United States in December, 1878, Canada obtaining as her share 
$4,490,882. 

Fisheries Commission, International — An agreement was entered into 
between the Government of Great Britain and that of the United States of 
America under date Dec. 6th, 1892, for the apppointment of a Commission 
of two experts, on^ on behalf of each Government, to consider and report 
on the regulations, practices and restrictions proper to be adopted in con- 
cert for the preservation of the fisheries in waters contiguous to Canada and 
the United States. Richard Rathbun was appointed Commissioner on 
l^ehalf of the United States, and Commander Wm. Wakeham on behalf of 
Great Britain (Canada). The first meeting was held at Washington, 2nd 
March, 1893. Their joint report was signed Dec. 31st, 1896, and was 
published in Blue Book in 1897 by order of the Parliament of Canada. 
They make about 100 recommendations, and give information about anad- 
romous fishes and fishes not so gifted ; about salmon (salar), shad, ale- 
wives, sturgeon, smelts, striped bass, trout, whitefish, white and yellow 
perch, suckers, small-mouthed black bass, white bass, blue bass ; pike, 
wall-eyed pike, grass pike, blue pike ; humpback, dog, sock-eye, silver, 
quinnat and steel-head salmon ; candle6sh, squid, channel cats, catfish, 
sunfish, sardines, long-jaws, cisco, cusk, cod, bloater, German carp, her- 
ring, hake, pollock, haddock, lobsters, bull-heads, ling, eels, saugers, 
sheep's-heads, sturgeon, maskinonge, etc. 

On the Great Lakes seines were used for the capture of whitefish in 
Lake Ontario as early as 1807. Gill nets first came into use in 1847. 
Lake Erie, though one of the smallest of the Great Lakes, has in some 
years yielded a greater catch of fish than all the others combined. Lake 
Ontario is the only one of the Great Lakes in which there has been an 
alarming decrease in trout. Lake Erie has 15 varieties of market fishes. 
There has been a great falling off in the abundance of the whitefish in 
Lake Erie. The herring is by far the most abundant of the market species 
inhabiting Erie, Pound nets were used for the first time in Lake Erie in 
1850. Seine nets were first used in 181 5. In Lake Huron trout is the 
most important species taken in the fisheries. In the early history of the 
lake, whitefish was the most important species. The first fishing tug 



90 First Things in Canada. 

employed in Lake Huron was in i860. There are about 145 million 
pounds of fish taken out of the Great Lakes annually. 
Fishery Licenses — In consequence of representations from Newfoundland 
the Dominion Government decided, March 22nd, 1889, to grant these 
licenses to United States fishermen for the season of 1889, under the 
niodus operandi protocol of the Draft Treaty of 1888, which was deemed 
operative though the Treaty itself was, through the action of the United 
States Senate, a defunct instrument. In 1890, the Canadian Parliament 
passed an Act authorizing the issuing of licenses to fishing vessels for pur- 
chase of supplies and outfits, the transhipment of catch, and the shipping 
of crews for the calendar year 1890. A similar Act was passed in and for 
the calendar year 1891, and in the year 1892 without a time limitation. 
In November, 1895, the Governor- General issued a proclamation declaring 
the Act of ^1888 to be no longer in force, and licenses for the year issued 
under Chap. 3 of the Acts of 1892. 

Under the arrangements licenses were granted to United States fisher- 
men as under, at $1.50 per ton :— 

i888 36 vessels. 

1889 78 " 

1890 119 " 

1891 98 " 

1892 108 " 

1893 71 " 

1894 53 " 

1895 46 " 

1896 77 " 

The total charge made for these licenses is $79,620. 

Flag— The first English flag to float over Canada in token of sovereignty was 

that flown on the ** Matthew," Captain John Cabot, June, 1497, as 

abundantly proved by recent investigators, Harrisse to the contrary not- 

withstandmg. 

Flag^ — The tricolour flag was first used in Canada as the flag of the Allan Line 

of steamers in 1854. 
Flag^ — The Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, under power vested in 
them by the Imperial Merchants Shipping (colours) Act of 1889, issued 
their warrant, dated Feby. 2nd, 1892, authorizing the merchantmen of the 
Dominion to use the red ensign of Her Majesty's fleet, with the Canadian 
coat of arms on the flag. Of course they may use the plain red ensign 
uf the Empire if they wish, but since the permission to fly the Dominion 
flag was issued, Canadian merchant vessels the world over generally fly the 
flag of the Dominion. Canada is the fij:st of the Queen's colonial 
dominions to which such privilege has been accorded. 
Flag^ — The flags of the Dominion and of the four original provinces of the 
Canadian Confederacy of 1867 were assigned by Her Majesty's warrant 
of assignment of armorial bearings, bearing date 26th May, 1868. 
Flax Mill— The first power loom linen factor/in Canada was established by 
John Elliott, of Almonte, George Stephen (now Lord Mount Stephen), 
and John Hunt, of Glen Williams, who formed a partnership in 1861. 
The firm erected a ncill in Preston, Ont., at a cost of over $120,000, 
including land for growing the flax. The products of the mill were linen 
duck, seamless bags, bleached and unbleached sheetings, and towellings, 
rope and twine. The favorable conditions which ruled in 1861, consequent 
upon the civil war in the United States, were reversed at the close of that 



First Things in Canada. 91 

stni^le, and the first Qax mill erected in Canada became a failure. The 
census of 189 1 supplied returns showing that there were 40 Bax mills in 
Canada in that year, with an aggr^ate capital of $418,180, employing 
over 1,400 hands, paying $204,290 yearly wages, and having an annual 
output of $5 55,45a These flax mills were almost all small, the largest 
one of them having an output of $75,000 a year. 
Flour Mill — The first mill in Canada for grinding wheat into fiour was bui ^ 
in Port Royal (now Annapolis, N.S.) m 1607. It was worked by waier 
power, and from that date to the present there has always been a mil] on 
that site. The census of 1891 gave the statistics of the flour and ]^rkL 
mills of Canada. They numbered 2,550 with a capital of over 23 million 
dollars, employed 6,300 persons, paid out in yearly wages $2,367,000, and 
produced a total of finished products of the yearly value of $52,423, ixx). 
The reason why the first mill was built was because nothing could imiuce 
the Indians to grind the wheat in the hand mills then in use. 
Foreshore — The Supreme Court of Canada having some years ago gi ven a 
decision that all the harbours of the Dominion, whether natural or oiher- 
wise, were vested in the Dominion, and that having been followed by 
other decisions holding that the Provincial Governments are incapable 
of granting even a site for a wharf, the Dominion Government, finding ii a 
constant source of friction between itself and the different Provincial 
Governments, asked Parliament in Session of 1890 to pass an Act (chap. 
7), empowering the Governor-General-in-Council to transfer without 
pecuniary consideration to the several Provinces all the interest of the 
Federal authority in the foreshores and beds of streams, lakes, open seas, 
or other bodies of water, together with all the gold and silver in such fore- 
shore or bed — reserving Indian, Ordnance or other Dominion lands and 
also all rights in respect to navigation and shipping and in respect to 
fisheries. 
Forests of Canada — One of the earliest publications respecting the forests of 
Canada is a paper prepared by Hon. James Skead and read at the 
Detroit Convention of 1865. This paper heads the list, of which the 
accompanying is a continuation : — 

Forests of Canada J. B. Hurlburt 1872 

Woods and Forests of New Brunswick . Bailey & Jack 1876 "^ 

Timber Supply Jas Little 1876 

Report on Forests and Forestry Hon. H. G. Joly. . 1877 

Evidence on Forests, Canada S. Thayne 1878 

Timber Resources of Canada U.S. Dep. Agrici . 1878-9 

Canadian Timber Trees A. T. Drummond.. 1879 

Report on Forestry, Canada T. B. Hough 1878-9 

North Western Ontario, its Resources. . Dymond 1879 

Report on Forests, Hudson Basin Barron 1 880-1 

Forests of Canada Marler 1882 

Gec^aphical Distribution of Forest 

Trees of Canada Dr. R. Bell 1882 

Destruction of American Forests Wm. Little 1S83 

Timber of Canada J. K. Ward 1883 

Canadian Forests— Forest Trees, etc. . .H. B. Small 1884 

Reports to British Government Dr. Lyons, M.P. . . 1885 

Forests of Nova Scotia Austin 1885 

Forests of Canada. A. J. Russell 1885 

Forests of Nova Scotia W. A. Hendry 1885 




92 First Things in Canada. 

Forests of Canada J. H. Morgan 1886 

Forests of Canada Dr. R. Bell 1886 

Hard Woods of Canada G. N. Hooper .... 1886 

Reports on Forestry, Ontario R. W. Phipps 1889-90-91 

" How to Get Rid of the Timber "... .Wm. Little 1890 

Forestry and Forest Schools A, Kirkwood 1893 

British Columbia Forests " Commercial " — 1893 

«« Our Forests in Danger " E. J. Toker, Can. 

Mag., July 1893 

Forests of Canada and their Distribution. John Macoun ..... 1894 

Forest Wealth of Canada * George Johnson . . . 1895 

Timber of Canada T. K. Ward ... 1895 

Report on Forest Trees, Ontario . .T. South worth 1896-97 

Wood Industries of Canada Timber Trades Jrnl 1897 

Other sources of information are the Reports of the Geological Survey, 
of the Crown Lands Departments of the several provinces, and of the 
Department of the Interior for several years. 
Forestry Commission appointed by the Ontario Government in 1897, to 
investigate and report upon the subject of restoring and preserving the 
growth of white pine and other timber in the province ; composed of £. 
W. Rathbun, John Bertram, A. Kirkwood, J. B. McWilliams and Thomas 
Southworth. 
Forestrji Department of— Established by the Provincial Government of 

Ontario, 1884. 
Forts— The first fort built in Canada, 1541, was the fort at Cap Rouge (near 
Quebec), by Cartier, who named it Fort Charlesburg. It was enlarged 
by Roberval in 1543. In 1604 the fort of Port Royal (Nova Scotia) was 
built by Poutrincourt, and reconstructed by D*Aunay in 1653. Fort 
Louis, or Lomeron, near Cape Sable, N.S., followed in 161 5.' In 1620 
Cham plain built the fort of St. Louis, on Cape Diamond, near Quebec 
city. The fort at the mouth of the St. John River was built by de la 
- \ Tour in 1627. In 1628 Sir William Alexander, a baronet of Nova Scotia, 
built the Scotch fort at the head of Annapolis Basin. Champlain, in 1634, 
built a fortified station on the St. Maurice river. Montreal fort followed. 
Four new forts were erected on the Richelieu, soon after the One Hundred 
Associates were persuaded by Colbert, in 1663, to restore to the King of 
France the property and lordship o( New France. These new forts were 
Forts Sorel, Cham plain, Ste. Ther^se and La Mothe. 

In 1673 Frontenac built a palisade fort at Cataraqui, which was enlarged 
by de la Salle in 1 674, and called Fort Frontenac. 

In the eighteenth century fort building was active. Louisburg was 
"~-* built in 1 720, and before it went to ruins ten million dollars had been 
expended on it. In pursuit of their claims to the watershed of the St. 
Lawrence and the Great Lakes, and that of the Mississippi and its tribu- 
taries, the French — in addition to Louisburg at the gateway of the Gulf of 
St. Lawrence and the forts along the St. Lawrence river and its southern 
tributaries- had erected forts along the shores of the lakes, such as Fort 
Rouille (Toronto), 1749, and Ponchartrain (Detroit), and others north of 
Ohio, such Le Bneuf, Venango, Duquesne (now Pittsburg), Sandusky, 
Miamio, St. Joseph (near Lake Michigan), Machilimackinac, Green Bay 
(La grande baie), Cr^vecoeur, Fort St. Louis on the Illinois, Cahokia, 
Kaskaskia, and at the mouths of the Wabash, the Ohio and the Missouri, 
their purpose being to hem in the English by their vast semi-circle of forts. 



First Things in Canada. 93 

Their opponents were as active. Halifax was founded in 1749 as the 
great arsenal of the Atlantic. Fort Lawrence frowned at Fort Beausejour. 
Fort Frederick obliterated the ruins of Fort de la Tour. Forts Edward, 
George and William Henry watched Forts La Mothe, St. Jean and Ste. 
Th^r^. Fort Oswego stood on guard against Fort Frontenac, and so all 
along the line. 

Throughout the land — nestling by salt water bays, perched on lofty 
heights, sentinelling isthmuses and promontories, guarding portages, pro- 
tecting lake traders, welcoming fur buyers at all places convenient for ' 
trade from the debouchure of stream or valley, sending out sallying parties ^j 
to harass the foe, receiving the wild charges of the enemy suddenly spring- 
ing from the concealment of dense forests — there were more than one 
hundred forts of all sorts, from the cAef cteiwre of French engineering 
skill, Louisburg, to the simple, palisaded forts of the distant interior. 

Founders, Early — Marquis de Gamache established the Jesuits College, 
Quebec, in 1635. ^<^ Brdlart de Sillery founded the first home for 
Indians, near Quebec City, in 1637. The Duchess d'Aiguillon founded 
the Hotel Dieu, Quebec, in 1639. Madame de la Peltrie founded the 
Ursuline Convent, August 1st, 1639, and Mme. Mance and Madame de 
Bullion founded the Hotel Dieu, Montreal, in 1644. 

France—Treaties. ( See Treaty. ) 

Franchise, Electoral, first made uniform throughout the Dominion in 1885. 
(See Electoral Franchise.) 

Frankingf Priinlege— By Act of Canadian Legislature, 1855, the postage 
charge on newspapers was removed, and in order to simplify and facilitate 
the transaction of public business the franking privilege was accorded to 
the members of the Legislature and to the public departments of the 
Government. In both cases it came into operation July ist, 1855. 

Free Delivery of Postal Matter put in operation in Toronto, Ottawa, 
Quebec, Halifax, Hamilton, and St. John, N.B., 1875. Since then 
Montreal, London, Kingston, Victoria, Winnipeg and Vancouver have 
been added to the list. In 1896 the post cards, letters and newspapers 
dejivered numbered 53,723,237, of which post cards and letters were 
39,275,927. Nearly 38 per cent, of this total was in the City of Toronto. 

Frig^ate Coins — ^First launched in New Brunswick in 1843. 

Gardener — The first gardener in Nova Scotia was Champlain, who, 
provided himself with a garden near the first fort built at the upper 
the Annapolis Basin, Nova Scotia. The site can still be traced I 
the two mountain streams which bounded it, east and west, have long 
since disappeared. It is on the property of Robert Mills, Esq., and is 
called even yet the ** French Gardens." Haldimand may be mentioned as 
one of the earliest scientific gardeners and florists in Canada, as he com- 
menced in 1777 to form a garden near the Montmorency Falls, near Quebec 
City. Subsequently he built the house in Montmorency known as the 
Haldimand House, still in perfect order and admired for its romantic 
situation, overlooking the Falls of Montmorency. Madame Riedesel, 
wife of Major-General Riedesel, who commanded the Hessian troops in 
General Bargoyne*s expedition, visited Governor Haldimand at Quebec, 
and, ** in return for civilities received," she tells that ** she taught Haldi- 
mand and Canadians generally how to pickle cucumbers." It is to be 
hoped she rests in peace ; many of the living descendants of those she 
taught the art of pickling cucumbers cannot, by reason of the indigestibility 
of pickled cucumbers. 



I, in 1605, Ni' 
per end of /N. 
id though y 



94 First Things in Canada. 

Gftrdens — The fint public garden was Adlam*8 Garden in Halifax, 1753. The 
present public gaidens are the admiration of the people of Canada and of 
all tourists. 

Gardenlnfl^— The first effort to cultivate the soil of Canada was made by 
Jacques Cartier, who, in 1541, had an acre and a half of land cleared, near 
where Quebec stands, and had it planted with turnips, cabbage and lettuce 
seeds. 

Geaend Elections. (See Simultaneous Polling.) 

Geological Surrey— In 1832 Dr. Rae present^ a petition to the Legislature 
of Upper Canada, prayine for pecuniary assistance to enable him to prose- 
cute a geological and statistical survey of the Province. It was referred to 
a Committee of Supply, but received no consideration. 

In 1842, the general annual report on the state of the colony trans- 
mitted to the Imperial Secretaiy of State, contains the following : "Pro- 
posals for a grand Geological Survey have been made which are under the 
consideration of the Government. Mr. W. £. Logan, who was selected 
as the Provincial Geologist by the Governor-General, upon the recom- 
mendation of several eminent geologists in England, has made a preparatory 
report upon the subject, and, should the plans be adopted, will commeace 
the survey next year. '* 

In his preliminary statement, Mr. Logan pointed out the existence of an 
immense limestone ledge. ** He judges that the country will yield good 
marble, hydraulic limestones, gypseous marl and pure gypsum, brine 
springs, fossiliferous iron ore, and various other materials of high import- 
ance to agriculture and useful to the arts. He anticipates the occurrence 
of magnetic oxide of iron in abundance, the existence of plumbago, and 
the presence of copper, lead and zinc ores below the limestone. He does 
not hold any flattering ideas respecting coal beds." 

The Geological Survey of Canada was, accordingly, instituted by the 
Provincial Government in 1843, a grant of ;f 1,500 having been voted for 
that purpose on the motion of Hon. J. S. B. Harrison, in consequence of 
petitions presented by the Natural History Society of Montreal, and tbe 
Literary and Historical Society of Quebec. In 1881 the otHces and 
Museum of the Survey were removed from Montreal to Ottawa. The 
total average annual expenditure in connection with the Survey since 1870 
is $52,000. The first report published was the Report of Progress for 
1843. This report, and also those for the years 1844-57, are out of print. 
To and including the ^ear i860, the Geological Survey Reports were, 
also, printed as appendices to the Journals of the Legislative Assembly, 
and may be found in the Parliamentary and other libraries. 

In 1862 a descriptive catalogue of a collection of the economic minerals 
of Canada, sent to the London International Exhibition, was prepared by 
the Survey. In 1864 was published Geology of Canada, 1863, being 
Report of the Geological Survey from its commencement to 4863. This 
volume includes the more important facts published in the preceding 
reports. Accompanying this is an atlas of maps and sections giving 
the sources of topographical information, a catalogue of the maps and 
charts used, and the sources of geological information for the general map 
of Canada. Other reports are, Reports of Progress, 1863-66, 1866-69, 
1870-71, 1871-72, 1872-74, and for each succeeding year to 1879 ; Report 
for 1880-1-2, and for 1882-3-4-5. 

In the 1884 session of Parliament, the Commons appointed a Select 
Committee to obtain information as to the methods adopted by the Geo- 



First Things in Canada. 95 

logical Surveys of Canada and of other countries in the prosecution of 
their work, with a view to ascertain if additional technical and statistical 
records of mining and metallurgical development in the Dominion could 
not be procured and observed. Their report and the evidence occupy 
over 200 pages of the regular Blue Book size. The Annual Report, new 
series. Vol. I., began with the year 1885, ^^^ ^^^ ^e° published since, 
annually, as the title indicates. Lists of publications of the Geological 
Survey have been published from time to time— the latest being 1895. 
Gemums — First German immigration into Canada was in September, 1760, 
when 1,300 German Protestants from the Palatinate came to Nova Scotia. 
In 1881 the census gave 25,328 persons in Canada, whose birth places 
were in Germany. The census of 189 1 gave 27,752 persons of German 
birth in the country. There are about 300,000 persons of German origin 
in Canada. 
Germany— (See Treaties.) 

Gold —The first recorded discovery of gold, in the Province of Quebec, was 
made in a stream flowing into the Chaudiere, in 1823, by a woman named 
Gilbert. Its existence in the Province, as the result of scientific investi- 
gation, was first made known in 1835 ^Y Samuel Baddeley, R.E. In 
Nova Scotia it was first found in 1858 by Capt. Lestrange while moose 
hunting. In i860 auriferous quartz veins were discovered. 

The first record of the discovery of gold in Ontario is in General Report 
of the Geological Survey, 1866-69. The Richardson mine was the first 
mine worked for gold, Madoc township, Ontario, where the precious 
metal was discovered by a man named Powell in August, 1866. The first 
discovery of gold in notable quantity was made in 1 871, by Mr. Peter 
McKellar, near Jackfish Lake, in the Township of Moss. Gold was dis- 
covered on Lake of the Woods in 1878. 

In British Columbia gold was first publicly known to exist in the valley 
of the Columbia .River in 1856, and of the Fraser River in 1857. 

While gold is very widely diffused throughout Canada, practically 
production has been confined, heretofore, to the Provinces of British 
Columbia and Nova Scotia. In the latter province 24,867 ounces were 
raised in 1865, and 26,113 ounces in 1896. The number of mines in 1896 
was 40, and the tons of quartz crushed were 67,249. In British Columbia, 
in 1865, the value of the gold produced was $3,491,205, and in 1896 it 
was $1,788,206. The total yield of gold in Canada in 1896 was valued 
at $2,810,206, showing that the value of the yield in all the other pro- 
vinces, outside of British Columbia and ^ova Scotia, amounted to 
$511,500. 

In 1897, the Yukon region was reported as ** full of gold." An immense 
rush of miners evidenced the eagerness for gold. The Canadian Govern- 
ment took prompt measures to establish authority, regulate mining and 
bring the far off region into touch with the seat of Government. 
Govemmeiit, Responsible — Introduced in 1841, and granted to all the older 
provinces between that date and 1854. 

Although Champlain laid the foundations of Quebec in 1608, it is only 
after the conquest of Kirke had been restored to France (1632), that the 
history of the Government of Canada can be said to begin. The Governor 
exercised all the powers of civil and military government without any con- 
trol of his council, which was merely a consultative body. In 1648 the 
Council obtained a greater measure of control, and consisted of the 
Governor, the previous Governor (if in the colony), the chief of the 



96 First Things in Canada. 

Jesuits (if there was no bishop), two councillors elected by the council, 
and the syndics of Quebec, Three Rivers and Montreal. In 1663, Canada 
was constituted by Colbert, a royal government, and placed under the 
control of the Governor and the Intendant. Associated with these were 
the Bishop and five councillors. An Attorney-General sat in the council. 
This body was called the Supreme Council, and it exercised, legislative, 
executive and judicial powers. During the period from Sept. 1760 (when 
Montreal capitulated), to 1763, the Government, though spoken of as a 
military Government, was conducted in accordance with the old customs 
of the province and in conformity with the laws which had been in force 
previous to the change. In 1763 King George III. issued a proclamation 
establishing four new governments, Quebec, East Florida, West Florida' 
and Grenada. The Government of Quebec was carried on, in actual prac- 
tice, by the Governor-General and an executive council composed of the 
two Lieut -Governors of Montreal and Three Rivers, the Chief Justice, the 
Surveyor-General of Customs and eight others chosen from leading resi- 
dents, one of whom was a native French Canadian. In 1774 the Quebec 
Act was passed by the Imperial Parliament, which then for the first time 
intervened in Canadian matters, the Crown having previously managed 
the colonies without the Parliament. From 1774, the Government was 
vested in a nominated Legislative Council of 23 members, of whom eight 
were Roman Catholics. This body sat with closed doors, debated in both 
languages, and drew up its ordinances in French and English. In 1776; 
an advisory council of five members, the Lieut. -Governor and four mem- 
bers of the Legislative Council, was appointed by the Governor-General. 
In 1 791, George III. sent a message to the Imperial House of Commons 
stating that it would be for the benefit of the province to divide it into 
Upper and Lower Canada. The result was the Constitutional Act of 1791, 
which established in each province a Legislative Council, appointed by 
the King, and an assembly of representatives elected by the people. This 
Act was the fundamental law of the two provinces till 1841, when the 
Union Act of 1840 came into force, and with it the era of Responsible 
Government. 

In Nova Scotia the French colonial system was in force till 17 13. From 
that date to 1758 the government was vested in a Lieut. -Governor and 
Council. A legislative assembly was first convened 2nd October, 175& 
In 1838 the executive authority was separated from the Legislative 
Council. In 1840 the principle of responsible government was recognized, 
and in 1841 it was fully adopted. 

New Brunswick was separated from Nova Scotia and a govemmenl 
established, consisting of a council of twelve members in 1784 and an 
assembly of twenty -one, in 1786. In 1842 the executive authority was 
made distinct from the Legislative Council. In 1848 responsible government 
was woven into the governmental system. Prince Edward Island was 
created a separate province in 1769, with a Lieut. -Governor (who irrived 
in 1770), and a combined executive and legislative council in 1770, a 
legislative assembly in 1773, and responsible government in 1850-1. (Sec 
Responsible Government.) 
Governor— The first nominal Governor of Canada was Sieur de Roberval, 
who, on 1 5th January, 1 540, was appointed by Letters Patent from the 
King of France, Lord of *Norembega, Viceroy and Lieut. -General in 

- ~ ? Norembega was the original name for the territory subsequently called Acadia. 



First Things in Canada. 97 

Canada, Hochelaga, Saguenay, Newfoundland, Belle Isle, Carpunt, 
Labrador, the Great Bay and Baccalaos. The first real Governor of 
Canada was Samuel de Champlain, whose term ol office began October 
15th, 16 12. The first nominal English Governor of Canada was General 
Jeffrey Amherst, 1760. The first real English Governor-in-Chief was 
General Murray, 1763. The first Governor of Montreal Island was 
Maisonneuve. The first Governor of P. E. Island was Walter Patterson, 
1769. The first French Governor of Acadia was IMerre de Monts, 1605 ^ 
to 1607. The first Governor of Nova Scotia was Colonel Vetch, 1710.^ 
The first Governor-General of the Dominion was Lord Monck, 1867. The 
first Lieutenant-Governors after Confederation were : For Quebec, Sir N. 
Belleau ; Ontario, Major-General Stisted ; Nova Scotia, Sir F. Williams ; 
New Brunswick, Major-General Doyle ; P. E. Island, Hon. W. Robin- 
son ; Manitoba and the North- West, Hon. A. G. Archibald ; British 
Columbia, Hon. J. W. Trutch. 

Goyemor-General— The first Governor-General was Sir Guy Carleton, Lord 
Dorchester, who, in 1786, was made Governor-General over Quebec, 
Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. The titles of the governors of Nova 
Scotia and New Brunswick were changed to Lieut. -Governors, and in 
!79i, when Upper and Lower Canada were created, the governor of each 
was styled Lieut. -Governor. 

Goyemor-General— The office of Governor-General of Canada was first 
permanently constituted by Letters Patent in 1878. Since then a brief 
commission is all the Governor-General requires. His general instructions 
are in the document of 1878. 

Governor's Speech—The first Governor's speech to "Gentlemen of the 
Council and House of Representatives," within the present bounds of 
Canada, was made by Governor Lawrence to the Counal and Assembly of 
Nova Scotia "in his own house," Oct. 2nd, 1758. 

Governor-General's Instructions — The first revision of these by the British 
Government, after Confederation, was made in 1876, at the instance of 
Hon. Edward Blake, when Minister of Justice. Lord Lome was the first 
Governor-General to act under the revised instructions. 

Grand Trunk Railway— The first proposals to build were made by Mr. 
Peto to the Hon. Francis Hincks, in London in 185 1. 

Grand Trunk Railway— The original Act of Incorporation passed in the 
Canadian Legislature, in 185 1, proposed only a railway from Toronto to-;^ 
Montreal, 333 miles, with a capital of ;^3,ooo,ooa The Amalgamation /* 
Act was passed in 1852, to enable the companies chartered to build rail- 
ways, (a) from Montreal to boundary line towards Portland, (b) from 
Quebec to Richmond, {c) from Toronto to Samia, and {d\ > from Quebec 
to Trois Pistoles, to unite in one general scheme. Under the provisions 
of this Amalgamating Act, the Atlantic and St. Lawrence -Railway 
from Portland (Maine) to the Canadian boundary, was leased for 999 
years. The amalgamation was confirmed in 1854, the company being 
known as the Grand Trunk of Canada. The sections were opened— from 
Portland to Montreal, 1853 ; firom Richmond to Quebec, with a branch 
to Three Rivers in 1864 ; from Montreal to Toronto in 1856 ; from 
Toronto to Samia in 1858, and the original system was completed Dec. 
1 6th, 1859, when the Victoria bridge was opened for traffic. The line 
from Detroit to Port Huron was leased in 1859 ; the Champlain lines 
in 1863 ; the Buffalo and Huron in 1867. In 1868 the International 
bridge was leased. 



98 First Things in Canada. 

In 1879 the Dominion Government purchased from the Grand Trunk 
the line from Levis to Riviere du Loup (124 miles), paying therefor the 
sum of $i,5CX),ooo. With this money the Grand Trunk purchased two 
railways in Michigan, and formed the Chicago and Grand Trunk. In 
1881 the Georgian Bav and Lake Erie system of 171 miles was incor- 
porated into the Grand Trunk. In 1882 amalgamation with the Great 
Western Railway, including 904 miles, took place. In 1883 the Welland 
line was leased, the Champlain lines extended, and the Midland system of 
473 miles absorbed. The Northern Railway was leased in January, 1888. 
The Grand Trunk system now consists of a total of 4,186 miles, of which 
3,153 miles are in Canada, 172 miles in the Eastern States, and 861 miles 
in the State of New Vork and the western states. The cost of the rail- 
way and its equipment including rolling stock, to 30th Jane, 1896, is 
given in the Railway Statistics at $33i>45i»492. In 1867 the Grand 
Trunk, with the then existing roads now under Grand Trunk control, 
carried 2,350,535 passengers and 2,018,769 tons of freight. In 1896 the 
Grand Trunk system carried 5,077,671 passengers and 7,587,148 tons of 
freight. In i8i37 the Grand Trunk system (including railways then in 
existence and since amalgamated) did 84 per cent, of the passenger trade, 
and 72 per cent, of the transportation by railways. In 1896 it did 34 per 
cent, of the passenger and 31 per cent, of the freight carrying business 
railway borne. 

Graphic Statistics of Canada, first prepared by George Johnson, and pub- 
lished by the Government of Canada in 1888, showing Canada's growth to 
the Queen*s Jubilee year of 1887. 

Crraving Dock in Esquimau, British Columbia, finished in June, 1886. First 
on the Pacific coast. 

Graving Dock at Quebec, finished in 1887. First on the St. Lawrence 
River. 

Graving Dock, Halifax, opened September, 1889. First on the Atlantic 
coast of Canada, and the largest on the continent. It is 601 feet long and 
102 feet wide. The " ocean greyhound," the Teutonic, is 582 feet long ; 
the City of New York and the City of Paris are each about 580 feet. The 
Great Eastern was 692 feet long and 83 feet wide. The first United 
States man-of-war ship to be docked in a Canadian graving dock was the 
Indiana, in this graving dock, August, 1897. There was no available 
dock large enough in the United States. 

Graving Dock, Kingston, was begun 1889 for the Great Lakes, and finished 
November, 1891. The first vessel to be docked was the S.S. St. Luxwrence 
of the 1,000 Islands Steamship Co., on 28th November, 1891. 

Graving Docks— The graving docks under the Government charge — viz : 
Levis, Kingston and Esquimalt — cost $2,591,844, of which the Imperial 
Government contributed $243,353 towards the Esquimalt dock. 

The number of vessels which used the docks from the time of their 
opening to June, 1895, was : Esquimalt, 121 ; Kingston, 141 ; Levis, 52. 
\ /. Thfe receipts from the three amounted in 1895 to $21,193. 

vf Grist Mill— The first in Canada was built by Poutrincourt near Port Royal, 
* % Nova Scotia, 1607. The remains of the old dam are plainly visible to this 

* day, and so judicious was the choice of the place that there has always 
been a mill on the spot from 1607 to the present date. There were in 
Canada in 1891, 2,550 flour and grist mills, with an annual output of 
$52,423,286. 



First Things in Canada. 99 

• 
Great Lakes — Champlain was tbe first white man (1615) to stand on the shores 
of Lake Ontario. He called it Lake Entouhoronon. In 1635 it is spoken 
of as the Lac des Iroquois. On Sanson's map (1679) i^ appears as ** On- 
tario ou Lac St. Louis." I^Salle and Hennepin call it (1678) Lake 
Frontenac. On De L'Isle's maps, 1700 and 1703, it appears as Lac 
Ontario. On Bowen's map of 1764 (setting forth the British, Spanish and 
French dominions in Nortn America, according to the treaty of 1763), the 
lake bears the name ** Ontario or Calaraqui. * Ontario is said to be a 
corruption of Omtaritc, Indian for ** beautiful waters.'' The first white- 
man to ascend the River St. Lawrence to Lake Ontario was Pere le 
Moyne, 1654; the first European to descend the St. Lawrence from 
Ogdensburg was Pere Poncet, 1653. 

Lake Huron was discovered by Champlain in 161 5. He called it Mer 
douce. Father Membre called it Lake Orleans. So also did Hennepin. 
On De L' Isle's map, 1700, it appears as Lac des Hurans^ said to be derived 
from hure^ freely translated ** shock of hair,." and indicating the profusion 
of hair which adorned the heads of the Indians around the lake. 

Lake Michigan was^discovered in 1634. Marquette, Dablon and La- 
Salle call it the Lake of the Illinois. Claude Allouez, in 1676, reached 
the lake on the eve of St. Joseph's day, and said : ** We give it the name 
of that great saint, and shall henceforth call it Lac St. Joseph." Allouez 
was the first to give it the name of Lake Machihgamng, Pere Membre 
called it Lake Dauphin. St. Come called it Miesitgan, and also Missigan. 
Marest was the first to call it Michigan. On Bowen's map of 1764 the 
name given it is Lake Michigan or " Illinois." Simon Pokagon, of the 
Pottawatomie Indian tribe, says Mi-shi-gan means *' monstrous lake." 

Lake Erie was discovered by Br^boeuf in 1640. The name is derived 
from the tribe of Eries on the south shore, whose country was also called 
the country of the wild cats, from the number of those animals found 
there — the Lake ol the Wild Cats. Some think the translation more 
correctly to be raccoons, Hennepin calls it Erie and also Conty, Sanson's 
map gives it Erie Lac. Membre calls it Lac de Conty. On de L'Isle's 
map it is Lac Erie. Bowen's map gives it Lake Erie. 

Lake Superior was discovered bv Peres Jogues and Raymbault in 1640. 
Its name denotes that it is the chief of the five great lakes, as well as at 
the head of the chain. 

Lake St. Clair, so named by LaSalle because he reached it in 1679 on 
the date of the feast of Saint Claire. Bowen's map gives it Lake St. Clare. 
Time with its effacing finger has rubbed off the final ** e." Otherwise the 
original spelling is retained. 

Lake Nipissing, discovered by Champlain in 1615, received its name 
from Indian words meaning " diminutive," the body of water being small 
in comparison with the great lakes. 
Grey Beards, Society of-^ormed 1775, consisting of men who had been in 

Canada in 1760. 
Halifax was founded in 1749, at the expense of the Imperial Government, 
under the direction of the Lords of Trade and Plantations, and was 
named in compliment to George Montague, Earl of Halifax, under whose 
immediate auspices the settlement was undertaken. The scheme for a settle- 
ment on the shores of Chebucto Bay is said to have originated with the 
people of Massachusetts, who, in calling the attention of the British Gov- 
ernment to the claims of the French on the territory of Acadia, suggested 
the necessity of, as well as the great commercial advantage to be derived 



^ 



100 First Things in Canada. 

. from, such an undertaking. A plan was submitted to Government in the 

A^ autumn of 1748, and was warmly supported by Lord Halifax. Parliament 
\ voted ;^40,ooo, and supplied 13 transports and a sloop of war, by which 
Colonel the Hon. Edward Cornwallis, designated Captain-General and 
Governor of Nova Scotia, his suite and 2,576 settlers were conveyed to 
the Bay. The registry book of settlers gives the date of the arrival of 
Governor Cornwallis as the 8th June. 

Hang^g^ — The first on record in Canada took place under de Roberval, 1542, 
when Michel Gaillon was disposed of in that way. 

High Commissioner for Canada— First appointed, 1880. Sir A. T. Gait 
first to fill the office, the date of his appointment being May i ith. Hon. 
Sir Charles Tupper succeeded him, the appointment being dated May 
30th, 1883. Hon. Sir Donald Smith (now Lord Strathcona and Mount 
Royal) was appointed April 24th, 1895. 

Hansard — (So called after Mr. Hansard, who provided the Parliament of 
Great Britain with the official report of speeches made by its members) was 
first adopted by the Canadian Parliament in 1875, on motion of Sir Charles 
Tupper, Bt. (then Hon. C. Tupper) and has been continued ever since. 
The title is really " Official Report of the Debates of the House of Com- 
mons," etc., but it is commonly known as Hansard. 

Historical Society — That of Quebec was founded 1824 ; of New Brunswick, 
1874 ; of Nova Scotia, 1878-9 ; of Manitoba, 1879, and of Prince Edward 
Island, 1 88 1. Respecting the Historical Society of Quebec, it may be 
remarked that Lord Dalhousie, the Governor-General, took a prominent 
part in its establishment and presided at the first meeting, held on January 
6th, 1824, at the Chateau St. Louis, when the Society was organized. The 
Nova Scotia Society has published nine volumes of papers connected with 
the history and development of that province. 

Historian— The first historian of Canada was Gabriel Sagard, who came 
here in 1623. Denys_ wrote and published "Description Historique de 
\ TAmerique Sepfentnohale7~Paris, i^72j* Bacqueville de La Potberie 
wrote "Historic de TAmerique Septentrionale," and published it in Paris 
in 1722. Elarly French writers are Cartier, Roberval, L'£^carbot, Cham- 
plain, Charlevoix (1744), Boucher, Creuxius ; those who wrote the Jesuits' 
Relations, beginning with Charles Lalement, who wrote the first of the 
series firom Quebec in 1626 ; (these were published in France to 1672 ; 
in modern times they have been continued to 1679); Bibaud, Roy, Garneau, 
Brasseur de Bourbourg, Ferland, Heriot, Smith, Christie, Pownal, 
McMullin, Suite, Roger, Parkman, Casgrain, Dussieux, Faribault, War- 
burton, Taylor, Sanson, Winsor, Bliss, Hogan, Morris, Haliburton, Mur- 
dock, Campbell, Kingsford, Greswell, Hannay, Withrow, Brice, B^g, 
Dent, Bourmot, Roberts, etc. William Smith was the first English writer 
(after Heriot) of Canadian history. He was the son of Chief Justice 
Smith, who may be deemed the grandfather of Confederation. William 
Smith (2nd) published his book in Quebec in 181 5. Its title is ** History 
of Canada from its first discovery to the peace, and from the establishment 
of Civil Government in 1764 to the establishment of the Constitution 
in 1791." 

Historical Treatise — The first concerning Canada was published in 166 1. It 
is the memorial of Boucher to Colbert, in advocacy of the retention of 
Canada by France, after its conquest by Kirk, and is entitled ** Histoire 
Veritable et Naturelle des Moeurs et Productions de la Nouvelle France, 
vulgairement dit le Canada." 



First Things in Canada. ioi 

** Holey Money '' — Prince Edward Island, suffering from the drain of her 
silver money to the neighboring provinces, at one time adopted the plan 
of punching a hole in the centre of the silver dollar and quarter dollar. 
The punched dollar was known as the holy (or holey) dollar, and had to 
be taken at its face value. Of course such *' holey " silver remained in 
the province, and the use of paper money was avoided. ^ 

Horse — The 6rst horses brought to Canada, of which there is record, were y 
those left on Sable Island by Baron de L^ry and his Portuguese associates Aji 
in 1539. The descendants of these horses paw the sands of the island for / [ 
fresh water, just as the breed have been doing for over 350 years. They^ 
are wild and have never had any admixture of other blood. 

Horse — ^The first one arrived in New France 20th Tune, 1647, and was pre^ 
sented to the Governor, M. de Montmagny. It was a present from Za 
Compagnie des Habitants, Horses were brought to Acadia in 16 13. ......-- 

Horses — First lot of horses purchased in Canada by the British authorities as 
remounts for British cavalry was shipped September 27th, 1886. 

Hotel DieUy of Quebec, first hospital, established 1639. The Hotel Dieu in 
Montreal was established in 1644. 

House — The first stone house in Canada was erected in Tadousac, in 1599, by 
Chauvin, a fur trader. Of the 855,535 houses in Canada found by the 
census of 1891 to be inhabited, 3 per cent, were stone, 16 per cent, 
brick, and 81 per cent. wood. 

Hudson Bay — First authentic account of the exploration of the straits .and 
bay is that of Henry Hudson, who gave his name to both in i6io.t Pre- 
vious to that event, Sebastian Cabot is declared to have visited the straits 
in 1 517. After Hudson, Captain Thomas Button (afterwards knighted) 
wintered in Nelson River, 161 2- 13, and took possession in the name of the 
King of Great Britain. Capt. Gibbons was sent in 1614, but missed the 
strait and returned without adding to the knowledge alreadv seeured. 
Capt. Robt. Bylot, who had been m the three previous expeditions, was 
sent out in 161 5 and again in 1616. Capt Luke Fox entered the bay in 
163 1. Capt. James, of Bristol, who like others was in search of a north- 
west passage to the Pacific Ocean, and had letters firom His Majesty 
Charles I to the Emperor of Japan, not finding the Emperor at home (or 
anywhere else) returned to England in 1632. After that, the treatv of 
St. Germain-en -Laye and the conviction of English navigators that there 
was no passage across the continent via Hudson Bay, induced English 
merchants and their sovereigns to give the Hudson Bay a wide berth, till 
1668, when Capt. Z. Gillam, acting for English merchants and for two 
French Canadians, De Grozelier and Radisson, made the first trading 
voyage to Hudson Bay — one, too, which led up to the formation of the 
Hudson's Bay Company in 1670. The Jesuit Albanel made the first over- 
land expedition to James' Bay, arriving there from Quebec in June, 1671. 
The first expedition sent by the Canadian Government to examine the 
navigability of Hudson straits for purposes of commerce, left Halifiix 22nd 
July, 1884, in S.S. Alert, Lieut. Gordon, R.N., commanding. Lieut. 
Gordon was sent out again in 1885 and 1886. His reports are to be found : 
that of 1884 in Appendix No. 29 to the Report of the Department of 
Marine for 1885 ; that of 1885 in sessional papers 11^ of 1886, and that of 
1886 in sessional papers 15^ of 1887. Other sources of information res- 
pecting Hudson Bay are Henry Yule Hind's paper on Central British 
North America, read before the Royal Statistical Society in 1864 ; the 
same explorer's evidence before the Canadian Committee on Immigration 




I02 First Things in Canada. 

and Colonization, 1878 ; Col. Dennis' navigation of Hudson Bay, 1878 ; 
the Reports of the Geolof^cal Survey (being chiefly results of Dr. Robert 
Beirs investigations) for 1878, 1879, 1880, 1881, 1882, 1883, 1884, 1885 
and 1886. Qias. N. Bell, in 1884, prepared <* Our Northern Waters," a 
report regarding the Hudson Bay and Straits. It was published by the 
Winnipeg Boaxd of Trade. In 1897 the Dominion Government equipped 
and sent an expedition to the straits and bay, under Commander Wakeham. 
The vessel — the " Diana ** — sailed from Halifax June 2nd. 
Hadton's Bay Company— (See Trading Companies.) 
Httdaon Bay Railway— First sod turned October 9th, 1886. 
Httdaoo Bay Ter ri tory — ^Transferred to Canada by deed of Queen, dated 
f November 19th, 1870. 

J^ HagnenotS— The Huguenots first came to Canada in 1604. De Moots, who 
; obtained from Henry IV. a patent covering Acadia, was the first Hugue- 

i not. Then came the DeCaens, the de la Tours and others. When the 

paramount lordship was transferred to the company of the 100 Associates 
in 1627, the company was expressly forbidden to allow Huguenots to come 
into New France or Acadia. 



Af 



Icelanders— First colonv of, settled in the North- West Territories, 1875. 

Immig^rants, Eariy — The first party of the Selkirk settlers gathered at Storno- 
way, Scotland, in July, 181 1, to the number of 125, having been engaged 
in Iceland, the Highlands of Scotland, the Orkneys, Glasgow and London. 
Capt Macdonell was in charge, having been inducted by the Earl of 
Selkirk. The vessels were the •• Eddystone," the ** Prince of Wales *' and 
the ** Edward and Anne," with a man-of-war for a convoy. Before the 
vessels left the dock, the Collector of Customs read the clause of the 
Emigration Act regulating the conveyance of emigrants, and announced 
that if any were unwilling to remain on board they might go ashore. 
Many went ashore, although it was claimed that as they were indentured 
servants they had no option but to remain. On the 26th July, 181 1, the 
ships sailed for York Factory, Hudson Bay. The vojrage covered 61 days. 
The Hudson Bay Co. officials received them with kindness and afforded 
every assistance. The colonists were sent from York Factory to the 
Nelson river, where huts were built for their use. On the 21st January, 
1812, twenty-three men were down with scurvy, but a liberal use of spruce 
juice banished the evil. Supplies of provisions were hauled on sleds every 
week from York Factory. On the 5th July the party left for Red River, 
which they reached September, 18 12, having taken about fourteen months 
in getting to their destination. Thus began the Selkirk settlement of the 
Red River. 

Imperial Conference held in London, April ist, 1887. Canada was repre- 
sented by Hon. Sir Alexander Campbell, K.C.M.G., and Sandford 
Fleming, C.M.G. Matters connected with the defence of the Empire and 
the subjects generally of Imperial importance were discussed. The uniting 
of Canada with Australia by cable was considered. (See also Life Insur- 
ance, Letters of Administration, and Companies Colonial Register Act.) 

In the conference held in London in June, 1896, Hon. Sir Mackenzie 
Bowell and S. Fleming represented Canada. This Conference was 
adjourned and met again in October, 1896, when Sir Donald Smith, 
High Commissioner, and Hon. A. G. Jones represented Canada, and 
Mr. Sandford Fleming was present as an expert. 

During the sittings of the Commission an exhaustive enquiry was made. 
(See Sessional Papers of 1897.) 



First Things in Canada. 103 

Imperial Federation— First proposed in 1764 by Thomas Pownall, Governor, 
Captain-General, Commander-in-Chief and Vice- Admiral of His Majesty's 
Provinces, Massachusetts Bay and South Carolina, and Lieut. -Governor 
of New Jersey. He proposed a scheme by which '* Great Britain may be no 
more considered as the Kingdom of this Isle alone, with many appendages 
of provinces, colonies, settlements, and other extraneous parts, but as a 
grand marine dominion, consisting of our possessions in the Atlantic and 
in America united into one Empire." (See Organization of the Empire." 
Hon. Joseph Howe advocated Imperial Federation i^ 1855, in a speech 
on " The Union of the B.N. A. Provinces and the right of British colonists 
to representation in the Imperial Parliament ;" in 1863, in a letter to C. 
B. Adderley on the relation of England with her colonies, and again in 
1863, in a speech " On the Organization of the Empire."' 

Imperial Federation League, first formed in Canada at a meeting held in 
Montreal, May 9th, 1885. The preliminary conference vras held in Lon- 
don, Eng., July 24th, 1884. The formation of the Imperial Federation 
League was consummated at a meeting held in London, Eng., Rt.-Hon. 
W. £. Forster, chairman. At a meeting held on June 20th, 1887, 
Imperial Reciprocity was suggested as the trade policy favored by the 
League in Canada, as the best trade policy for Great Britain and her 
colonies. The Canadian Imperial Federation League changed its name, 
4th March, 1896, to the British Empire League in Canada, on motion of 
Sir Charles Tupper, Bart. 

Imperial Treaties — Right to decide whether Canada should be included in any 
treaty Great Britain may make, first given to Canada by the mother 
country (Ea^l Carnarvon's despatch), 22nd January, 1878. 

Incorporated Towns of Ontario — The first to be incorporated was Hamilton, 
February 13th, 1833. Others early to be incorporated were Toronto (as 
a city), Belleville, Cornwall, Port Hope, Prescott, and Cobourg, all on 
March 6th, 1834. 

Indians — The Indians in Canada are the descendants of the first inhabitants of 
the country. They are divided into 4 races, (i) the Esquimaux, (2) the 
Dene-Dindji^, (3) the Algonquins, and (4) the Huron-Iroquois. In the 
first census of the Dominion the subject of the Indian population received 
careful attention. There were found to be 36 tribes, divided into Esqui- 
maux, I ; D6n^-Dindji^, 19; the Algonquins, ii ; the Huron-Iroquois, 5. 
As regards numbers there were : 

Of the Esquimaux race 4,028 

•• Den^-Dindjie " 42,000 

" Algonquin " 46,000 

" Huron- Iroquois " 10,330 

Total 102,358 

As regards mode of living : 

Chiefly by fishing , 23,000 

In camps by prairie hunting 18,000 

In villages in settled districts I7>358 

By families in the woods 44)O0O 

As regards the general geographical distribution : 

West of the Rockies 26,000 

East " *• 76,000 



104 First Things in Canada. 

As regards political divisions : 

Province of Prince Edward Island 323 

" Nova Scotia 1,666 

" New Brunswick 1,403 

•* Quebec 6,988 

*• Ontario 12,978 

" Manitoba 500 

" British Columbia 23,000 

" Rupert's Land 33,50O 

*' Labrador and the Arctic watershed. 22,000 

A report of a Special Committee of the British House of Commons Id 
1857 gives interesting information respecting the Indian tribes in the 
country BOW called Canada. The Report of the Superintendent-General 
of Indian Affairs for 1896 gives the number of Indians at 100,027, of whom 
28,498 were Protestants, 42,454 Roman Catholics, 16,812 Pagan, and 
12,263 " unknown." 

In the Provinces of Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, 
P. £. Island and British Columbia there has been an increase of 11,005 
in the Indian population in 25 years, or nearly 24 per cent. The decrease 
in Manitoba, the North- West and the North-Eastern Territories in the 
same period was 13,336. The increase in the older provinces has nearly 
counterbalanced the decrease in the newer territories. The building of 
the C. P. R. and the extermination of the buffalo were prime factors in 
the decrease of the Indians in the great prairie region of Canada. 

The Indians are provided with schools, common, boarding and indus- 
trial. There were 288 of these in 1896, with 9,684 pupils, 5,161 being 
boys, and 4,523 girls. The average attendance was 55.34 per cent, of the 
total on the rolls, which is just about the average attendance of white 
children in Ontario. The Indians have to their cr^it in the Indian Fund 
the sum of $3>9i 3*615, moneys accrued from annuities and from sales of 
land, timber, etc. The Parliamentary grant for 1896 was $902,308, and 
the expenditure $880,410, of which latter $700,540 was expended in 
behalf of the Indians of Manitoba and the North- West Territories. 
Indians— First admitted to vote in Federal elections, 1885. The Indians in- 
cluded among voters are those resident in the Provinces of Ontario, Quebec, 
Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island. The Indians 
in the other provinces are disqualified. The Indians qualified in the pro- 
vinces named are those in possession and occupation of a separate and 
distinct tract of land (in a reserve) on which the improvements are valued 
at $150, and, of course, all other Indians possessed of the qualifications 
entitling whites to vote. 
Indian Famine Fund, Canadian—In the early part of 1897, India was face 
to face with famine caused by reduced rainfall and a consequent shortage 
in the crops. An appeal was sent forth within the Empire for help for 
the one member thus afflicted. The Canadian Indian Famine Fund was 
started by Lord Aberdeen, and Canada sent as her contribution to the 
general fund the sum of nearjy $200,000. Of this sum $178,682 was 
passed through the hands of the treasurer of the fund, J. M. Courtney, the 
remainder being sent through other channels. By provinces the contribu- 
tions to the Fund were : — 

Ontario $61,878 Manitoba $20,813 

Quebec 48,323 B. Columbia 7,293 

Nova Scotia 14,600 P. E. Island 6,105 

New Brunswick.,,, 11,705 N. W, Territories.. 6,319 



First Things in Canada. 105 

Indian Lands, ownership of (in North- Western Ontario), obtained by treaty 
before Confederation, decided by Privy Council of England to be vested 
in the Provincial Government and not in the Dominion Government, 
December, 1888. 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb and Blind in Toronto, founded 1858. The 

first blind pupils were admitted September, 1861. The Institute for the v^ 
Deaf and Dumb in Halifax, N.S., was founded in i860. It is a school j 
and provides for the education of the deaf mutes of the Maritime Provinces. 
The census of 1891 gave eight institutions for the deaf and dumb and blind 
in Canada, with 754 inmates. 

Institute of Natural Science of Nova Scotia, founded 1862. 

Insurance Companies —First required to make deposits with Government for 
the security of the Canadian people insured, in 1858. The amount de- 
posited with the Government was on ist July, 1896, $24,344,826, and 
that with Canadian trustees- $6,475,697, making in all $30,820,523 held 
for the protection of policy holders. This amount was distributed : Fire, 
inland and marine, $6,074,455; life, $24,033,678 : accident, etc, $712,390. 
Of the amount deposited with the Government about 48 per cent, is in- 
vested in Municipal securities, the remainder being in Dominion stock, 
Provincial debentures, United States bonds, British Government securities, 
C. P. Ry. bonds, etc. 

Insurance Statistics. See Fire, Life, etc. 

Intercolonial Conference. See Colonial Conferences. # 

Intercolonial Railway— First opened from Quebec to Halifax 1876. First -r-^ 
steamship, with ocean freight to be transported via Intercolonial, arrived at 
Halifex, I^ovember, 1876. (See Canadian Government Railways.) 

International Deep Water-ways Association — The first annual convention 
of, naet in Cleveland, Ohio, September 24th, 1895. The organizing con- 
vention met in Toronto, September 19th, 1894. The Cleveland platform 
declared {a) that the public welfare demands the deepest practicable chan- 
nels between the several lakes and the seaboard ; (d) that at least 21 feet 
in all channels with permanent structures for a possible 26 feet of navigable 
depth seem to be required ; {c) that prompt action by the United States 
and Canada is needed ; (d) that the broadening of the channels through 
the connecting shallows between Lakes Erie and Huron and Lakes Huron 
and Superior is urgently demanded. Mr. O. A* Rowland, M.P.P., 
Toronto, was appointed the international President of the Cleveland per- 
manent organization, and was the first president of the organizing conven- 
tion in Toronto. The results of the Toronto and Cleveland meetings were 
the passage of an Act by the Congress of the United States, authorizing 
the President to appoint three persons to form a Commission, with three 
others appointed vby Great Britain and (or) Canada, to investigate and 
report upon the feasibility of building canals to enable vessels engaged in 
ocean commerce to pass to and fro between the Great Lakes and the 
Atlantic Ocean. On November 5th, 1895, President Cleveland announced 
the appointments under the above mentioned Act, of James B. Angell, 
Lyman E. Cooley and John E. Russell. The Dominion Government 
appointed Hon. O. A. f lowland, Thos. Munro, C.E., and Thos. C. 
Keefer. C.E. The joint commission studied the questions involved, and 
on January i8th, 1897, the United States Commissioners' report to Presi- 
dent Cleveland was made public. It may be found in the report of the 
Canadian Minister of Railways and Canals for 1896. The report of the 
Canadian Commissioners was made public in September, 1897. 



io6 First Things in Canada. 

Intematioiial Park at Niagara Falls. United States side opened July, 1885, 
and called Prospect Park. Canadian side opened on the Queen s birth- 
day, 1888. It is called Queen Victoria Park. To the Earl of Dufferin, 
when Governor-General of Canada, is due the first public suggestion and 
the first official action in connection with Queen Victoria Park. In 1878, 
meeting the Governor of New York State, Lord Dufferin suggested joint 
action by the government of that State and the Province of Ontario, in 
order to preserve to the public the Falls of Niagara in all their natural 
beauty, undimmed by the greed and bad taste of money grabbers. In 
1880 a memorial, signed by several hundreds of eminent men in England, 
Canada, and the United States, was presented to the Governments of 
Canada and New Vork requesting united action. In 188 1 the State of 
New York secured 107 acres of land on the New York side of the Falls at 
a cost of about one and a half million dollars. The legislature of Ontario, 
after waiting for the Dominion Government to initiate the movement and 
finding that constitutional difficulties connected with federal control pre- 
vented action, passed an Act in 1885 ** for the preservation of the natural 
scenery about Niagara Falls." The commissioners appointed under the 
Act secured about 675 acres of land including 12 acres of Queenston 
Heights on which stands the monument erected to the memory of General 
Brock. An electric railway was built, which in 1896 carried 475,000 pass- 
engers. Other plans were adopted and the commissioners succeeded in 
bringing up the receipts to about $45,000 a year, thus making the Park so 
nearly self-sustaining that only a small toll is exacted from visitors wanting 
to go to points where guides or other special assistance are needed. 

Interoceanic Railway — First proposed as a practical measure by Major 
Carmichael- Smyth in 1848. His map gives the route through the Rockies 
exactly as, years after, the railway crossed that range. Lieut. Synge, in 
1848, proposed a combination of railway and water from Halifax to the 
foot of the Rockies — an utilization of the water stretches on a vast scale. 

Interprovincial Conference— The first conference of Premiers of the Prov- 
incial Governments was held in Quebec Cily in October, 1887. It was 
attended by all the Provincial Premiers excepting the Premier of British 
Columbia. It passed a number of Resolutions in amendment of the Union 
Act of 1867. 

InterproTlncial Trade— The first grant of money 0^1,500) by Canadian 
Legislature for steam service, was given by Lower Canada in 1825 to pro- 
mote trade between Halifax and Quebec. The Nova Scotian Legislature 
responded in the same year by voting ;£^750 a year as a premium for a 
steamer of not less than 500 tons. The Royal William^ 1370 tons, plied 
between the ports during the seasons of 1832 and 1833, but was with- 
drawn, the business done not being sufficient. (See Steamer, R(^al 
William.^ 

Interprovincial Trade — The first Committee of the Commons of Canada to 
consider the subject met during the season of 1877. The attention of the 
Committee was more particularly directed to the state of the Coal trade. 
Much valuable information was obtained respecting the commercial bene- 
fits of Confederation in the direction of interprovincial trade. In the 
session of 1883 a select committee of the Commons was appointed to take 
into consideration and report how interprovincial trade may best be pro- 
moted and the earnings and enlarged traffic of the Intercolonial Railway 
be further increased by interchange of products. The evidence pointed to | 
a very considerable growth of interprovincial trade. The report of 1877 



. FissT Things in Canada. 107 

was known as the McKay Committee Report and that of 1883 as the 
Paint Committee Report. 

oterprovincial Trade — In 1865, the trade between the Province of Canada 
and the Maritime Provinces was half a million dollars less than it had vX 
been in 1853, the Treaty of Reciprocity with the United States operating ^ 
injuriously. In 1865 the Provincial interchange amounted to about $2,- 
000,000. The interprovincial trade between the St. Lawrence River 
Provinces and the Maritime Provinces in the East, and the other Prov- 
inces to the West, at present amounts to about one hundred million 
dollars a year, or about the same as the total trade between the Dominion 
and the United States. 

oventors and Patentees, Canadian Association of, was organized in Toronto 
8th July, 1890. The first President was John Gait, C.E. The chief 
objects of the Association are (1) to agitate for amendments of the Patent 
Law (2) to form a fund to aid by loan Canadian inventors, who are finan- 
cially unable to secure patents for their inventions themselves.^ 

iron Duties — Tariff readjusted to develop the production of iron in Canada in / 
Session of 1887 ; Sir Charles Tupper, Minister of Finance. Still further 
changes were made in the customs duties on the various manufactures of 
iron during the Session of 1894. The total' imports of iron and steel and 
manufactures of, during the first five years immediately preceding the Tariff 
of 1887, amounted to $75,251,232, or $15,050,250 per annum. During 
the six years after the new duties were imposed, the average annual im- 
ports amounted to $13,714,000. In 1885 they were $9,249,749, and in 
1889, $10,952,607. The Tariff of 1897 made considerable modification 
in the iron tariff. (See bounties on Pig Iron.) 

iron Smelting^ — The first smelting of iron in Canada took place at the St. 
Maurice Forges (P.Q.) in 1733. The lower portion of the St. Maurice 
River valley is historic ground in the annals of iron smelting on this conti- 
nent. In 1 68 1 the Government of France made official examinations of 
the deposits of b<^ ore in this valley. A blast furnace and a Walloon 
hearth were erected in 1742, and enlarged in 1752, the latter still standing, 
with the date and thtjleur de lis of France on it. The old furnace was in 
use in 1883, and in that year the oldest blast furnace on this continent was 
closed, operations being transferred to Radnor, a few miles distant. A 
score of miles up the St. Maurice River is Lac a la Tortue, a body of water 
4 miles long by iji( miles wide. It occupies the centre of a large area of 
swamp lands, largely composed of sand. These sandy lands produce a 
rank vegetation, which decaying furnishes organic acids in solution in the 
waters draining into the lake. As these waters percolate through the sand 
they come in contact with the iron rust in the sand, dissolve it, and carry 
it into the lake. The air in contact with the surface of the lake turns the 
protosalt of iron into a persalt, which being insoluble in water forms a film 
upon the surface, and at length sinks to the bottom and there forms "cake 
ore.'* This is gathered and conveyed to the Radnor Furnaces, and being 
smelted with charcoal produces, when mixed with bog and magnetic ores, 
a charcoal iron of the very best kind. Of course the lake is constantly 
receiving fresh accretions of iron, the chemical processes going on without 
cessation. It is thus a continually replenished iron mine. 

Irrig^ation in the North- West— In the 1894 Session of the P'ederal Parlia- 
ment, an Act was passed entitled " The North-West Irrigation Act." It 
provides for careful supervision by the Government of the first distribution, 
and for subsequent administration, of the available water supply in the arid 



i<^ First Things in Canada^^ 

region. At the close of the season of 1896 there were 157 completed 
ditches and canals, with a total length of about 350 miles. These com- 
pleted systems are capable of irrigating 65,cxx) acres. A general report on 
irrigation in the North- West forms Part III of the Report of the Depart 
ment of the Interior for 1896, and contains evidence showing that there is 
no reason to doubt that through irrigation a large portion of Assiniboia and 
Alberta will be rendered fruitful every year, and the element of uncertainty 
caused by variations in the rainfall altogether eliminated from the calcala- 
tions of those engaged in extensive agricultural operations. 

» Jesuits— First Jesuit missionaries in Canada arrived at Port Royal, Acadia, in 
"^-« i6ii. They did not have a very enjoyable or successful time of it. One 

of them was killed at Mount Desert defending his countrymen against the 
attacks of the Virginian, Capt. Argall. Another was sent adrift in an 
open boat, but was picked up and, after terrible sufferings, managed to 
find his way to France. The third was carried off captive by Argall. 

Jesuits Estates' Bill— Passed by Legislature of Quebec and allowed to be 
come law, the Dominion Government deciding not to disallow it ; was 
discussed in Canadian Commons in March, 1^9. The decision of tiie 
Government was upheld \>y a majority of 175 in a house of 202 members, 
13 voting against the Government and 188 for. The money ($400,000) 
was paid over in accordance with the decision of the Pope of Rome (the 
arbitrator between contending parties in the Roman Catholic church), on 
the 5th November, 1889. The Equal Rights Association had its origin, 
in 1 089, in connection with the discussion of this question. 

Jesuit Mission — The first established in the present Province of Ontario was 
founded by the Jesuits Br^beuf, Daniel and Davoust, near PenetaD- 
guishene, in 1640. 

Jesuit Relations— The annual reports on New France, called the Jesuit 
Relations, began to be transmitted from Canada in regular succession in 
1632. Charles Lalemant, the Jesuit, wrote the first of the Relations, 
from Quebec in 1626. They were published in France to 1672 ; in 
modern times they have been continued to 1679. 

Jews, Russian —First colony to N. W. Canada came in 1882, and numbered 
i»375 persons. 

JoumsU of the Canadian Bankers' Association, first issued September, i 
ubileeYear — The first Jubilee connected with our sovereigns, celebrated in 
Canada, was that of King George III. It was observed in Halifax, Oct 
25th, 1809, ** with every demonstration of joy," although its actual occur- 
rence was 25th October, 1810. The Legislature of Lower Canada passed 
an address (18 10) congratulating the King on his having attained his 50th 
year as a sovereign. The Legislature of Upper Canada did the same. 
The next jubilee year was in 1887, when the Queen had reigned fifty 
years. The Diamond Jubilee was celebrated, 22nd June, 1897, in coir. 
memoralion of the fact that the Queen had reigned longer than any of her 
predecessors on the throne of England. The presence of the premiers of 
the self-governing colonies of the Empire was one of the chief features of 
the demonstration. The social keynote of the jubilee of 1897 was devel- 
opment and foundation of charitable institutions. 
Jubilee — In 1837, forty days elapsed before the city of Quebec learned officially 
that William IV. was dead and that Victoria had been proclaimed, in 
London, Queen. 
In 1897, as the Queen stepped into the state carriage in front of Buck- 



First Things in Canada. 109 

ingbam Palace, she pressed a button, and forthwith her simple, loving 
message to 330,000,000 of her subjects is received in the ten thousand 
cities of the empire, scattered throughout the four quarters of the globe, 
and in ten minutes, from forty-four seats of government within the vast 
empire, loving responses are speeding over thousands of miles of space 
and fluttering into the Queen's presence. At the same gentle pressure 
of the royal right hand the bells of St. Paul's and Westminster join with 
ten thousands of bells all around the globe, to announce to waiting millions 
of her subjects that the Qpeen has started on the grandest procession the 
world has ever witnessed — that of a Queen, in an open carriage, strong- 
guarded by the love of her people, pas^ing through seven miles of densely 
crowded millions of human beings of every colour and clime, drowning all 
the mighty clangour of the bells with the mightier cheers that come Som 
their hearts. 

udg^es — Excluded from sitting in the Legislature, 18 ii. 

udges, County Court— Act of 1868 provides for the payment of the salaries 
of County Court Judges in Ontario and New Brunswick ; Act of 1869 
fixes the salaries of these judges by statute ; Act of 1872 fixes the salaries of 
County Court Judges in British Columbia ; Act of 1876 fixes those of the 
County Court Judges of Nova Scotia, and Act of 1882 those of the Judges 
of Manitoba. County courts were established in England in 1849, and an 
eminent writer says of them that they are one of the most useful of the 
institutions, the establishment of which marks the Victorian age, touching 
more people and more diversified interests than almost any other. (See 
County Courts.) 

[ndicial Committee of the Privy Council of England— This Committee is 
composed of members of the Privy Council, qualified under certain Acts. 
In 1897, the Chief Justice of Canada was sworn in a member of the Com- 
mittee, being the first colonial judge to occupy the position, as a direct 
representative of the dependency. 

[nsticey Chief— First in Upper Canada, William Osgoode, 1792 ; in Quebec, 
William Gregory, 1794 ; in Nova Scotia, Jonathan Belcher, 1754 ; in P.F 
Island, John Duport, 1770 ; in New Brunswick, George Ludlow, 1784 
in Manitoba, Alex. Morris, 1872 ; in Vancouver Island, D. Cameron, 
1853. 

Note. — Chief Justice Belcher was, like many of the first English officials after the 
founding of Halifax, a native of Massachusetts. He arranged and revised the laws of 
Nova Scotia as they appear in the first statute book of the Province. 

[nstices of the Peace — ^The first formal commission for Nova Scotia was . 
issued May, 1727. Messrs. Adams, Skene and Sherriff were appointed ^.^ 
to form a Civil Court. Fran9ois Richard, a habitant , was made High 
Constable, 5th May, 1727. 

Keewatin — District of, formed, 1876. (See page 23.) 

Kinders^arten— The first in Ontario were established 1882-4. 

Kingf's Colleg^e, Windsor, N.S., founded November, 1788. — * 

Kings's Daug^hters — Circles were first formed of this religious organization, in 
Canada, in 1887. They have spread all over Canada since that time. 
The badge is a silver maltese cross, having on it ** I.H.N," the initials of 
the watchword of the organization, ** In His Name." The membership 
in Canada is reported as 6,000. Hospitals, homes for aged men and 
women and for dependent children have been founded in Chatham, 
Windsor and Cobourg in Ontario, and in St. John, New Brunswick. The 
first Dominion Convention was held in Toronto, Oct. i6th, 1891. Eight 



)ec, / 



i.io First Things in Canada. 

conventions, two of them for the whole Dominion and the others provin- 
cial, have been held. The full title is The International Order of the 
King's Daughters and Sons. From New York, which was its birthplace, 
May 13th, 1886, it has spread over the world, and the total membership 
is 400,000. 

Kingston— Was first called Cataraqui, afterwards Fort Fronlenac. On the 
gate of the barracks appear the following inscriptions : *' Frontenac, 
1672;" **Tetede point, 1798." La Salle called it Frontenac in 1674, 
after his patron, de Frontenac. 

Knights-Banneret of Nova Scotia, first created by Charles I, 1625. 

Knights Commander of St. Michael and St. George, first Canadian member, 
Sir F. Hincks, 1869. The Knights Commanders of this Order in Canada 
are (July, 1897) : 

Sir Mackenzie Bowell, 1895 Sir Tames A. Grant, M.D., 1887 

" John Carling, 1893 " William P. Howland, 1879 



Adolphe Caron, 1885 " Henri Joly, 1895 

" Adolphe Chapleau, 1896 ** Hector L. Langevin, 1881 

" Louis H. Davis, 1897 " Joseph Trutch, 1889 

** Sandford Fleming, 1897 " Charles H. Tupper, 1893 

" Casimir Gzowski, 1890 " Wm. Van Home (Hon) 1894 

Knitting Machines— First set up in Belleville, 1857. 

Labour— Fit St Royal Commission to enquire into the relations of Capital and 
Labour in Canada was appointed in 1887. It took evidence in the prin- 
cipal cities in Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick .and Nova Scotia, aod 
made the first report on labour questions to Parliament in Session, 1889. 

Labour Day — First Labour Day in Canada was celebrated in Toronto in 1885, 
on which occasion nearly all the Labour Associations of Canada were 
represented. At Montreal the first Labour Day was held in 1886, and the 
first at Quebec in 1891. Sir John Thompson introduced into the Com- 
mons in the Session of 1894 an Act making the first Monday in September 
Labour Day. The eight hours a day system was adopted in the public 
Printing Bureau, on 1st May, 1896, Sir Charles Tupper, Bart., Secretary 
of State. 

Labrador was first discovered in 986 by the Northman Berni, who called it 
" Helluland in Mikla," or ** Great Sea Land," from the stratified rocks 
(secondary limestone) seen on its coast. It was re-discovered by Sebastian 
Cabot, and five years afterwards, in 1500, it was visited by Corte Real, 
who, with less accuracy, called it "Terra I-abrador," ** cultivable, or 
laborers* land," believing it to be so from the growth of trees he saw 
upon it. 

Lachme Bridge— (See C.P.R.) 

Lachine was first settled in 1667. It was called St. Sulpice. 

Lachine Canal — The first contract for the construction of a canal in Canada 
was made in 1700, between M. Dollier de Casson and Sieur Catalogne. 
The canal was to connect Lachine with Montreal to overcome the rapids. 

Lachine Rapids— The first steamer to go down these rapids was the Ontario^ 
Captain Hilliard, 1840. 

Lacrosse — Is first mentioned in Sagard's ** Voyages au pays des Hurons" 
(Paris, 1632). The first game between white players only took place in 
Montreal, 1859. The clubs were the Montreal and the Hochelaga. 

The first work written specially on lacrosse was by W. George Beers, 
Montreal, i860. The first tour to Great Britain and Ireland was organ-zed 
May, 1876. The teams were received by the Queen, 26th June, 1876. 



First Thing's in Canada. hi 

^adies' Medical CoUeg^e— Two were inaugurated in 1883 f one in Toronto 
and the other in Kingston. 

^es— (See Great Lakes.) 

«aad — ^The first dry land on this continent was the Laurentian range. 

-and— Champlain cleared the first land for cultivation in Montreal, in 1611, 
and called it Place Royale. It is now known as Point k Calli^res, after 
the governor of that name. 

«and — The first sale of land on the Island of Montreal was made 4th January, 
1648. The parcel was 40 acres, where the St. Anne's Market now stands. 
The deed was from Maisonneuve to one Gadois, and the consideration 
was one-quarter of a sou per acre annually. 

.and Tenure — In 1627, Richelieu introduced, in a modified form, the old 
feudal tenure of France into Canada, with the object of creating a Canadian 
nobility. It lasted till 1854. 

.andowner — The first landowner in what is now the Province of Ontario, 
was Robert Ren^ Cavelier, Sieur de la Salle, who, in May, 1675, received 
from Louis XIV. a patent of nobility and a grant of land, comprising Fort 
Frontenac and the islands in front. The land thus granted became a 
seignory of Canada, and La Salle became the first seignior in what is now 
Ontario. 

.and in the 40 Mile Belt in British Columbia. By an arrangement effected 
in February, 1890, the Governments of Canada and British Columbia 
agreed as follows : — 

{a) The Government of Canada will not hereafter make any leases or 
dispositions of any minerals in the Railway Belt in British Columbia, 
excepting coal, other than by patent in fee simple of the lands wherein 
they lie, to the intent that the minerals in said belt, other than coal, may 
be administered under the mining laws of the Province. 

{d) All lands of the Dominion which may be for sale from time to time 
within the Railway Belt, containing minerals within the meaning of the 
Mineral Act (B.C.), not being Indian reserves or settlements, or portions 
thereof, and not being under license or lease from the Dominion Govern- 
ment, shall be open to purchase by the Provincial Government at the price 
of $5.00 per acre. 

A later agreement was made by which lands containing stone quarries 
are administered by the Dominion Government. 

.and Question in Prince Edward Island — When Prince Edward Island was 
surveyed it was divided into allotments, which were distributed by the 
Lords of Trade and Plantations (the predecessor of the Colonial Office), 
by lottery, 1767. Certain duties of settlement and the prepayment of 
a small annual quit rent were among the stipulations. In 1780, the 
Governor decided to enforce the payment of these dues, and several pro- 
perties were sold for non-compliance. The proprietors petitioned, and 
the Home Government disallowed the sales and ordered that the lands 
should revert to their previous owners. A long struggle took place be- 
tween the governor and the dispossesed owners. In 1814-24, enforced 
sales were extensive. In 1859, the land question was still of absorbing 
interest. Sir Samuel Cunard and other proprietors suggested the appoint- 
ment of an Imperial Commission. The assembly agreeing thereto, Hon. 
Joseph Howe, Hon. J. H. Gray and Hon. J. W. Ritchie were appointed. 
They recommended the purchase of the proprietory lands on fair terms to 
be fixed by arbitration, and their reallotment at as low rates as possible to 
the old tenants. The assemby accepted the recommendations, but the 



112 First Things in Canada. 

colonial office rejected them. When the province entered Confederatioo 
in 1873, A lo^n of $800,000 was guaranteed it to purchase and re-allot 
these estates. In 1875, commissioners were appointed to determine the 
value of the estates, whose sale under the provisions of the Act was -made 
compulsory. 

Law — Criminal Laws, in the four provinces originally composing the Domi- 
nion, assimilated 1869. An Act consolidating the Criminal Law of Can- 
ada was passed in the session of 1892. It contains 983 sections. 

Law Courts— First Courts of Law in Canada, 1663 ; in Nova Scotia, 1747. 

Law and Lawyers — The Law Society of the Province of Upper Canada was 
incorporated in 1797 '* for the purpose of securing to the rrovince and the 
profession a learned and honourable body to assist their fellow subjects as 
occasion might require, and to support and maintain the Constitution of 
said Province.'* An Act was passed in 1794 authorizing the Lieutenant- 
Governor to license 16 practitioners in the law, so that Upper Canada 
might have its own lawyers. The first annual meeting of the Bar Associ- 
ation of the Dominion was held in Halifax, August, 1897. Their object 
is to assimilate the laws of the Dominion in certain particulars. (See 
" Bar Association.") 

Leg^islative Intenrention— The British Parliament intervened for the first 
time in Canadian affairs in 1774, passing the Quebec Act. Previous to 
that date the British Government by Orders-in-Coundl regulated the 
Colony. 

Legislature, First meeting of, in Nova Scotia, 1758; in Prince Edward 
Island, 1773. Legislature of New Brunswick first met in St. John on 
3rd January, 1786. 

Legislature— The first meeting of the Legislature of Lower Canada, on lyih 

December, 1792, was held in the chapel of the Bishop's Palace, Quebec. 

— - The Legislature continued to assemble in the Palace until 1838, when 

Montreail was selected as the seat of government. The first in Nova 

Scotia was held in a grammar school house in 1758. 

Legislature of Upper Canada— The first meeting of the Upper Canada 

^/ Legislature was on September 17th, 1792. It sat till 13th October, same 

year. The first Act (passed in 1792) provided that the common law of 

England should be acknowledged as the rule in all matters of controversy. 

Legislature of Quebec — First statute after separation. (See Quebec. ) 

Legislatures, Provincial — After Confederation, the Local Legislatures met 
for the first time on following dates : 
Ontario, December 27th, 1867. 
Quebec, December 27th, 1867. 
Nova Scotia, January 30th, 1868. 
New Brunswick, February 13th, 1868. 
The first meeting of the Legislature of Manitoba after its creation was 
March 15th, 1871. After admission to the Canadian Confederation the 
first meeting of the Legislature of British Columbia was on February i6th, 
1875; of Prince Edward Island, March 5th, 1874. The first meeting of 
the North-West Territories Legislature was October 31st, 1888. 

Library — The first circulating library was opened in Halifax, 1824. The first 
public libraries in Ontario were in Kingston and Ernestown, 181 1. 

JUfbraries in Canada— The first Public Library opened in the Dominion was 

'"'"* that of Montreal College, 1767, followed by King's College, N.S., 1790- 

i"' Free Libraries were first opened in the following places : Halifax, 1864; 

: \ Gait, Febr, 1883 ; Toronto, March 6th, 1884 ; Montreal (Eraser Institute) 

Oct. 15th, 1885. 



First Things in Canada. 113 

The oldest date given for any library in Canada is i66S» the libraiy 
being that of Le Petit SeminairCy Quebec City, founded by Bishop Laval. 

Haldimand, in 1779, made an effort to establish a library in Quebec 
City. The money having been collected, he wrote to Richard Cumber- 
land, the dramatist, asking him to procure the books. Five cases were 
sent from London in 1780, and they formed the nucleus of the library, 
which subsequently came into the possession of the Literary and Historical 
Society of Quebec 

The latest returns show that there are 4J80 libraries of a more or less 
public character in Canada. These are classified as follows : 

Kind. No. No. of Pamphlets. No. of Books 

Law 21 1,929 105,788 

Legislation 9 48,834 309.395 

Public 325 '7,535 663,125 

Coll^ate, &c * 62 24,894 627,246 

Otherst 29 15,224 96,918 

Special? 2 I4»330 18,500 

Y. M.C. Associations .. 32 23,660 

Total 480 122,746 1,874,632 

By provinces the 480 libraries are distributed : 

PROVINCB. No. No. of Pamphlets. No. of Books 

Ontario 374 32*922 942,187 

Quebec 39 31,841 531,356 

Nova Scotia 26 17,756 97,521 

New Brunswick 15 2,689 54,787 

Prince Edward Island . 3 500 8,528 

Manitoba 8 5,014 34*730 

British Columbia 10 i,554 11,303 

N. W. Territories i 140 2,150 

476 93,416 1,682,572 

Dominion 4 « 29,330 192,060 

Total 480 122,746 1,874,632 

In Ontario, free public libraries are in the following cities : Berlin, 
Brantford, Chatham, Guelph, Hamilton, IngersoU, Simcoe, St. Catha- 
rines, St. Thomas, Toronto, Waterloo and Wmdsor. 

For a long time the other public libraries of Ontario were called 
Mechanics' Institutes, but by an Act passed by the Ontario L^islature 
tbese have been called Public Libraries since 1895. Of the 374 libraries, 
314 are transformed Mechanics' Institutes, about 140 of which have over 
1,000 volumes each. The Toronto Free Library has about 90,000 
volumes, and the Hamilton Free Library about 23,000 volumes. Among 
** others** in Ontario, is a medical library with 3,800 volumes. 

Of the libraries of Ontario, one was founded in 1797 ; one in 1815 ; one 
in 1825 ; 17 between 1830 and 1850; 28 between 1851 and i860 : 17 be- 

* Libraries in CoUeees, Universities, Educational Departments, etc. 

t Libraries such as Medical, Historical and others belonging to special societies. 

t " Geological Survey" and "Archives" at Ottawa. 

8 



114 First Things in Canada. 

tween 1861 and 1870 ; 50 between 1871 and 1880 ; and 97 between 1881 
and 1896. The others have not given the date of their foundation. 

In the Province of Quebec, the dates of foundation as given are : 1668, 
one; 1767, one; 1792, one; 1803, one; 1818, one; 1924, one; 1828, 
one ; 1829, one ; 1834, one ; 1845, oi^^ f 1^4^* ^^^ f 1^5^* ^^^ > ^^5^' 
i860, seven; 1861-1870, four; 1871-1880, eight; 1881-1889, two; and 
1891-1896, two. 

In the Province of Nova Scotia, libraries were founded : one in 1790; 
one in 181 7 ; one in 1820 : one in 1822 ; one in 1838 ; one in 1839 ; two 
in 1854 ; one in 1858 ; one in 1859 ; six in 1 860- 1870 ; one in 1872 ; one 

in 1875 * ^^^ ^^ '^6 * ^^^ o°c io 1^4- 

The dates of the foundations in New Brunswick are : one in 1800 ; one 
in 1840; one in 1846; one in 1847; one in 1862, one in 1864; one in 
1876 ; one in 1878 ; one in 1882 ; one in 1883 ; and one in 1890. 

In the Province of British Columbia the dates of foundation are : one 
in 1863; one in 1871 ; one in 1888; one in 1889; two in 1890; one in 
1891 ; and one in 1894. 

In the Province of Manitoba, the dates of foundation are : one in 1871 ; 
one in 1872 ; one in 1877 ; one in 1885 ; and one in 1895. 

In connection with the Dominion Gpvernment Departments are libraries 
of considerable size, eaTch Department having a valuable and extensive 
equipment for the purpose of reference. 

Throughout the Dominion the Boards of Trade and Chambers of Com- 
merce have special libraries (open to members), principally relating to 
matters connected with trade and transport. The Sunday Schools through- 
out the Dominion have a large library equipment. The Public Depart- 
ments at the several Provincial Capitals have also very considerab!e 
libraries, and in many of the Public Schools throughout Canada there are 
libraries for the use of the scholars. 
Life Insurance — The first life insurance corporation established in Canada 
and now doing business in Canada was the Canada Life, established 21st 
Aug., 1847. The Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society commenced 
busmess in Canada in 1846, but its license expired in 1878, so far as new 
business is concerned. The Standard Life was established in 1847. 

The Canada Life began operations with a capital of $400,000. In 1S48 
it had 303 policies in force covering the sum of $500,100. In 1895 i* ^^^ 
30,259 policies in force, representing the sum of $65,097,537. The 
income increased from $15,508 to $2,721,270. The average value of each 
policy in 1848 was $1,653, and in 1895 it was $2,150. The company was 
30 years before (in 1878) it reached 19 millions of insurances. 

In 1869 the tptal amount of life insurance effected by all the companies 
then doing business in Canada amounted to $12,854,132, and in 1895 to 
$44,781,584. The largest year in the history of Canada was 1894, when 
life insurances to the value of $49,525,257 were effected. In the first year 
of Confederation the net amount of life insurance at risk among the several 
companies reporting the business done in Canada was $10 per head of 
the population. In 1871 it was $12.60; in 1881, $23.60; in 1891, $54.00, 
and in 1895, $63.00 per head. The number of policies in force in 1877 
(the first year in which the information was obtained) was 50,830. In 
1895 they numbered 245,507. The average amount of each policy in 1877 
was $1,685, an<i in 1895 $i»325. 
Life Insurance — Letters of administration for sums of money due on life 
insurances effected with companies having their head offices in England 



First Things in Canada. 115 

were fiist rendered necessary to be taken out in England, in the case of 
Canadians, in 1889, an amendment to the Imperial statute providing that, 
in the case of a person who shall die domiciled elsewhere than m the 
United Kingdom, the production of a grant of representation from a court 
in the United Kingdom shall not be necessary to establish the right to 
receive the money payable. 

Life-Saving^ Stations — In 1853 a fearful storm swept the coasts of New- 
foundland and Nova Scotia. Miss Dix, a philanthropic lady interested in 
the care of the insane, was on a mission to rialifiu, and became acquainted 
with some details of the ravages of the storm on Sable Island. She went 
to the island, and while there witnessed the wreck of a United States vessel, 
and noted that the life-saving apparatus was far behind the age, there being 
nothing but heavy, clumsy surf-boats. When she arrived at her home in 
the United States she appealed to her friends and succeeded in obtaining 
funds for three life-boats with necessary apparatus; Philadelphia, New 
York and Boston each supplied one. Two of these reached their destina- 
tion nth Nov. 1854, and on the 27th the passengers and crew of a Maine 
ship, numbering 168, were all saved. Canada has now 25 life-boat stations 
fiiUy equipped — chiefly with self-righting and self-bailing l>oats, 25 ft. over 
all, 8 ft. beam, Dobbin's pattern. In Sable Island the equipment includes 
one Beebe surf-boat and carriages and one Beebe-McLellan self-bailing 
life-boat. Of the 25 stations, 14 are in Nova Scotia, 10 on the Great Lakes 
and I in New Brunswick. 

Lig;^htlioase8— When Capt. Bayfield's survey was completed in 1834, there 
were only four lights between the Atlantic and Quebec City, viz., Green 
Island, Point du Monts, St. Paul's Island and Anticosti. Two more were 
added shortly afterwards — Heath Point in 1835 and Lower Traverse light- 
ship, 1836. There were then no fog alarms, no gas buoys, no lightships. 
There are to-day between Belle Isle or Cape Race and Quebec, 70 light 
stations and four light ships, from which 87 lights are shown. Three of 
the light ships are equipped with steam fog whistles ; fog horns are estab- 
lished at seven stations, and explosive signals at nine. The fourth light- 
ship has a bell as a fog horn signal. This list does not include any of the 
lights in the Gulf of the St. Lawrence south of Gaspe, or on the Cape 
Breton coast, but only those under the control of the Dominion of 
Canada, which would bie used by a vessel sailing between Quebec and 
Ireland, by either the Straits of Belle Isle or Cape Race. Besides the 
regular lights there are eight gas buoys (two of which are equipped with 
bells) and over 50 can buoys. The new charts show soundings through the 
Straits of Belle Isle, the approaches to Anticosti and up the River St. 
Lawrence, and the route has been aptly described as a " well-marked and 
well-lighted lane." 

^ig^hthouses — The first lighthouse erected in Canada was at Louisburg in 
1 734. M. de St. Ovide, the Governor, writing to the French Minister, Oct. 
2ist, 1734, says, '*the lighthouse light was kindled on the ist of April. 
It was perfectly visible for six leagues out at sea." This lighthouse is 
referred to as " projected " in a letter, dated Nov. 3rd, 1728. In a letter 
of Oct. 15th, 1733, a lighthouse keeper is mentioned, and the imposition 
of light duties as established. On Jany. 28th, 1734, the report of St. 
Ovide is that in order to light up the lantern in the lighthouse they are 
only waiting for the arrival of the glasses. The lantern tower was burned 
Nov. loth, 1736, and reconstructed in 1738. The first lighthouse erected 
in Halifax Harbour was the Sambro lighthouse in 1758. A lottery was 



4: 



ii6 FiR«T Things in Canada. 

proposed by Cornwallis in 17^1 to raise ^^450 for the purpose of building 
this lighthouse. There were in 1850, in all, 89 lights in Canada, 59 of 
them in the Province of Canada ; 10 in New Brunswick ; 19 in Nova 
Scotia, and one in Prince Edward Island. On January ist. 1896, there 
were in all 629 light stations, 770 lights, 13 fog whistles, and 40 auto- 
matic fog horns, an increase since December, 1808, of 431 light stations, 
54^ lights, 20 fog whistles, and 40 automatic foe horns. 

Listensm — The Montreal General Hospital was the first hospital in Canada 
to employ the antiseptic methods of treatment with which Lord LJster is 
so closely identified. 

Litenuy and Scientific Sodetj, of Ottawa, was incorporated in 1869, ^h^n 
the Mechanics' Institute and Athseneum (inc. 1862) and the Natural 
History Society (inc. 1866) were merged into one. The Mechanics' 
Institute was apparently based on a stul* older society, for the present 
society has in its possession a comer stone with *' By town Medianics' 
Institute, 1853," cut in it. The first annual report of the amalgamated 
societies— that of 1870— gives a membership list of 121 persons, with 971 
books in the library, of which 320 were taken out during the year. Its 
first president was £. A. Meredith, L.L.D. It now (1897) numbers about 
400 members, and has about 4,000 volumes (bound or unbound), and 
during the year 1895-96, 5,582 books were taken out. After the Geologi- 
cal Survey Museum was established in Ottawa, the museum of the society 
lost its usefulness and was disposed of, the library, the lectures and the 
reading room being retained. The lectures are given every other week 
(during the winter), alternating; with those of the Field Naturalists' Club. 

LocomotiTe — The first imported into Canada was called the *' Kitten," from 
certain eccentricities in its disposition, which interfered with the regular 
discharge of the duties assigned to it. The second, used on the Montreal 
and Lachine Railway, was named the" James Ferrier," after Hon. Senator 
Ferrier, who died in 1888, having lived to see the one locomotive on a 14- 
mile railway become 1,773 locomotives and powerful engines, drawing over 
17,000,000 tons of freight and 12,000,000 passengers a year, on over 12,000 
miles of railway. 

Logman, Sir William, was the first native Canadian elected, for work done in 
Canada, a fellow of the Royal Society. 

Lord Bishop — The first bishop of the Anglican Church in Canada to receive 
the title ** Lord Bishop " was Dr. Jacob Mountain, appointed Lord Bishop 
of Quebec by letters patent dated 28th June, 1793. '^^^ Bishop of Nova 
Scotia, who was the first bishop appointed in British North America (1787) 
received the title of Lord Bishop at a date subsequent to 1793.* 

Loyalists — The first ship-load of Loyalists arrived in St. John, New Bruns- 
wick, loth May, 1783. Twenty vessels arrived between the loth and the 



* The story is told that on one occasion early in the "fifties" Bishop Binney, then but 
recently appointed Lord Bishop of Nova Scotia, sent word to a gentleman of Dutch descent 
living in Ritcey's Cove and following the ancient and honourable craft of fisherman, that on a 
given date he would pay the Cove an episcopal visitation . The worthy Dutchman, in great 
perturbation of soul, hurried off to the shire town of Lunenburg and made diligent inquiry 
respecting the proper mode to receive a Lord Bishop . He was told not to be disturbed in 
spirit over the visit of the chief pastor, but to address him, •' Yes, my Loid," atid " No, my 
Lord," and to give him the best of everything. In due time his Lordship the Bishop arnved 
and was promptly shown into the best room and given the best chair. Shortly after the host 

g>pear^ with a black bottle and a tumbler and reverently addressed the visitor, " O, Loid 
od, will you have a glass of whiskey ? " The good man had got the titles sadly mixed, but 
he was sure that whiskey was the best thing he had in his house for a traveller. 



First Things in Canada. 117 

20th of May, loaded with Loyalists from New York. The first framed 
house finished by them was a place of worship. 

Macdonald, Sir John, was first appointed a Cabinet Minister on nth May, 
1847. He celebrated his 40 years in Parliament in 1884, on which occasion 
banquets were tendered him in Toronto and Montreal. 

Mackeime, Sir Alexander, was the first who penetrated the Rocky Mountains. 
In thfe year 1793 he crossed them in about latitude 54°, discovered Eraser's 
river, descended it for about 250 miles, then struck off in a westerly direc- 
tion and reached the Pacific in latitude 52° 20'. He inscribed, m large 
characters with vermilion, on the rocks of the Pacific, this brief memorisd : 
'* Alexander Mackenzie, from Canada by land, 22nd July, 1793." On 
July 22nd, 1886, just 93 years alter. Sir John Macdonald was standing in 
Yale with the eternal mountains closing him in on all sides, and saying : 
" Here, with the grand memorials of the great Creator surrounding me, I 
could spend the rest of my days in content. * Mackenzie was in the employ 
of the North -West Company, and was the first white man to cross the 
northern continent. ^ ^ 

Mackenzie River Basin— First Parliamentary report on, was laid before the 
Dominion Parliament during the Session of 1888, being the results of an 
inquiry by a committee of the Senate, Hon. J. Schultz, chairman. The 
limit of the committee's inquiry covered an area of 1,260,000 square miles 
— about the size of Europe, exclusive of Russia. The region has a coast 
line of over 5,000 miles, a river navigfation of 2,750 miles, and a continuous 
lake and river navigation of 6,500 miles, or over twice the distance from 
New York to Liverpool. The Mackenzie River is 2,500 miles long. The 
committee reported that ** within the scope of its inquiry there is a possible 
area of 650,000 square miles fitted for the growth of potatoes, 407,000 
square miles suitable for barley, and 316,000 square miles suitable for 
wheat ; that on the head waters of the Peace, the Liard and Peel Rivers 
there are from 150,000 to 200,000 square miles which may be considered 
gold-bearing ; that silver, copper, iron, graphite and other minerals are 
found in abundance ; that the petroleum area is extensive enough to supply 
the wants of the whole continent, and that the wealth of the region in fish 
and furs is enormous." 

Madras School — These schools were first conducted in Madras, India, by the 
founder of the system. Rev. Dr. Bell. The first Madras School in Canada 
was opened in Halifax, 1816, by Mr. West, to whom the Society for the 
propagation of the Gospel paid a salary of ;^200 a year. He opened the 
first Madras School in New Brunswick in 1818, at York Point, St. John. 
In August, 181 9, a Provincial charter was granted to the Madras Schools 
in New Brunswick and money voted. The system was rapidly adopted, 
and in 18 19 Madras Schools were established in Fredericton, Kingston, 
Sussex, Georgetown and St. John. The Madras School in St. John is 
still in operation. 

McClure, Captain, was the first and only man who ever took a ship's crew 
from Behring's Straits to Davis' Straits by water, 1850-51. 

McGee, Hon. D'Arcy, was assassinated in Ottawa on the night of the 7th of 
April, 1868. A thrill of horror ran through the whole Dominion and for 
the first time after Confederation men felt the next day that east and west 
they were brothers. They shared a great sorrow in common. 

McGill College — Hon. Mr. McGill in 181 3 left by will 46 acres of land in 
Montreal and ;£ 10,000 as an endowment to found a college. In 1821 



r 

118 First Things in CanaIWCT* 

McCiill College was made afWUversity by Royal Charter, and was reorgan- 
ized under an amended charter in 1852.^ 

Magazine —Among early magazines pub}j|^hed in Canada are (i) "The 
Quebec Magazine, or useful and entertaining repository of science, moralSi 
history, politics, etc., particularly ndxpted for the use of British America, 
by a society of gentlemen in Quebec." The first number appeared on ist 
August, 1792, published by Samuel Neilson. (2) In the W^xK^m GazttU^ 
i8(%, there is an advert iiisn^ur of a periodical published in Hali&x and 
called the " Nova Scotia and^ New Brunswick Magazine or Historical 
Library." The literary shores of Canada are strewed with the wrecks of 
hundreds of Periodicals. 

Manitoba — Created a province of the Dominion July 15th, 1870 and obtained 
better terms, incluaing swamp lands, (see Swamp Lands) in 1885. 

Manitoba — The official Gazette appeared for the first time printed wholly in 
English, in September, 1889. Previously it had been printed in English 
and French. 

Manufactures — Canadians first granted leave to engage in manufiicturing 
pursuits in 1704, By the census of 1891, the output of manufacturing 
establishments was $476,198,886 for the year 1890, and for 1880 $309,- 
731,867. Of these amounts the sum of $260,795,190 represented the out- 
put of establishments in 1890 having each a yearly output of $50,000 or 
more, and $153,767,771, the output of establishments with a similar out- 
put in 1 881. By provinces the total output was : 

Output 1890 Increase over x8So 

British Columbia. $ 1 1,999,928 $ 9,073,144 

Manitoba 10,155,182 6,742,156 

New Brunswick 23,849,655 5»336.997 

Nova Scotia . ... 31*043,392 13,468,066 

Ontario 239,781,926 81,736,257 

P. E. Island 4.345»9>o 945»702 

Quebec I53.i95.583 48,533.325 

N. W. Territories 1,827,310 1,631,372 

Totals $476,198,886 $166,467,019 

Map— The first map of Montreal is to be found in Ramusio, edition 1556. 

Mariners* Association— First formed in Halifax for the benefit of trade, 1786. 

Marriar e — Qergymen of all denominations in Upper Canada were Brst 

authorized by law to perform the marriage ceremony in 1831. Previous 

to thit year only Ministers of the Church of England, or of the established 

Church of Scotland, could legally solemnize marriage in the Province. 

Marriage by Church of Scotland clergymen in Canada was declared I^^ai 

i , by Act passed at Quebec in 1827. 

"^ Mamag^e— The first marriage in Canada was that of Etienne Couillard and 

^ Anne Hubert, at Quebec, 161 7. 

Marriage with deceased wife's sister made legal by Act of the Canadian 
Parliament in May, 1882. In the Commons the vote for the **6 months' 
hoist " stood 36 for and 113 against. The Bill carried by a majority of 38. 

Masonic— First Masonic Lodge in Canada was established, and officers in- 
stalled, 1700. It was St. Paul's Lodge, Montreal. A Masonic Temple 
was built in 1805, half in Canadian territory, and half in Vermont. The 
war of 18 1 2 destroyed the harmony. The first in Nova Scotia was organ- 
ized in Annapolis Royal in 1738. It received its charter from the Grand 



First Things in Canada. 119 

Lodge of Massachusetts, and was named the Annapolis Royal Lodge. It 
has had a continuous existence to the present day. 

Masonic Lodg^es— First united under one jurisdiction, 14th July, 1858. 

Mass — first Mass celebrated in St. Lawrence River district was by Jamay 
and Le Caron, at the outlet of Riviere des Prairies, on 24th June, and 
by d'Olbeau and du Plessis, in Quebec, 25th June, 16 15. These priests 
were R^oUet Fathers, brought over by Champlain. After the re-posses- 
sion (1632) of New France hy the French, the first act was the perform- 
ance of the. mass in Hebert's bouse, which had remained intact. 

Mayor — The first mayor in Canada was M. Jacques Viger, Montreal, 1832. 
The first mayor in Upper Canada was Wm. Lyon Mackenzie, of Toronto, 
1834. 

Mechanics' Institutes— The first in Ontario were established, 1830. First 
grant to, by Upper Canada Legislature, 1835. The libraries connected 
with these institutes were, made public libraries by Act of the Ontario 
Legislature, 1895. (^^^ Libraries.) 

Medal» — The first war medals issued, since i3i2, were those issued by the 
British Imperial Government, at the instance ol the Canadian Government, 
to commemorate the stamping out of the Riel Rebellion, 1886. About 
6,000 were issued and distributed to the CanadiaQ volunteers. An engraver 
in Toronto also issued medals in connection with the event, foe sale to the 
public. One of the three kinds he issued had a wreath similar to that on 
the half dollar, with a beaver on top, and an iiiscription, " The Dominion 
must and shall be preserved, 1885. 

Medical Asodations, Canadian— The physicians of Canada met in Laval 
University in the summer of 1867, and formed themselves into ap Asso- 
ciation. The Hon. (now Sir) Charles Tupper, of Nqva Scotia, was 
elected first president, and Alfred G. Belleau first general secretary. The 
association has had a successful career. ' The meeting in Montreal in 1897 
was the largest and most enthusiastic in the annals of the body in Canada. 

Medical Degrees— The Medkal Council of Great Britain first decided, in 
May, 1877, to recognize Canadian degrees in Medicine. 

Medical Jomtial — The first was published in Quebec, 1835, /> Journal de 
Medicine de Quebec, Dr. X. Tessier was its editor. 

Mennonites —First colony of Russian Mennonites came to North-West Canada 
in 1874, and numbered 1349. The second colony came in 1875, ^^^ 
numbered 3258. The third colony, coming in 1876, numbered 1357. The 
amount to aid them advanced by the Federal Government was $96,400, 
and this sum was paid off by them in full with interest. 

Merchant Vessels— First in Lake Ontario in 1793. 

Merchants — First convention of Ontario retail merchants was held in Hamil- 
ton, August, 1889. They considered questions relating to business, par- 
ticularly the question of bankrupt stocks. 

Medical Association, British, first met in Canada August 31st, 1897. Place 
of meeting, Montreal. First Canadian President, T. G. Roddick, M.D., 
M.P., 1897. This is the first occasion on which the meeting was held out 
of the United Kingdom. Seven Branches of the British Medical Associa- 
tion have been formed in Canada, the first to be formed being that in 
Halifax in 1887; followed in 1891 by branches in Montreal, Toronto, 
British Columbia, Manitoba ; and in Ottawa and Quebec City in 1897. 

The medical profession in Canada has (i) the Canadian Medical Associ- 
ation for Canada. (2) E^ch Province has a Collie, or Medical Board, 
with the necessary equipment for securing proper registration, ettc. The 



I20 First Things in Canada. 

profession has fourteen publicttions, such as Tke Canadian PnuiiiioHer, 
Toronto^ V Union MutuaU du Canada^ etc According to the census of 
1891 there were in Canada 4,448 physicians and surgeons, of whom 76 
were women. There are 8 medical men in the Senate and 19 in the House 
of Commons. At the meeting of the Canadian Medical Associatioo held 
in Montreal^ Aug. 30th, 1897, a scheme of interprovincial registration was 
adopted by the Medical Councils of all the Provinces except Ontaria 

Medical School— The first in Canada was started in October, K822, when 
five doctors met for the purpose of taking into consideration the expediency 
of establishing a medical scbool in Montreal. The school was ^led the 
Montreal Medical Institution, and was approved by the Goremor-General, 
Earl Dalhousie, who appointed the members of the Institution the first 
Board of Examination ror the District of MontreaL The first coarse of 
lectures was given in 1824. In 1828 the Medical Institution became the 
Faculty of Medicine of McGill University. There are 1 1 medical schools j 
in Canada, including one for women only. These all have the power to 
grant degrees, and all are connected, directly ar by affiliation, with Uni- 
versity bodies. During the winter session of 1896-97 there were in all 
Canada 1,736 medical students receiving instruction from 286 teachers, 
professors, lecturers and demonstrators. 

Meteorological Serrico — The Observatory at Toronto was first established 
in 1839 as one of the British Colonial Observatories at the instance of the 
British Association for the Advancement of Science and the Royal Society, 
as a part of a general system of magnetic research on sea and in the colonial 
possessions of Great Britain. The first director was Lieut. Riddle, R.A., 
who was succeeded by Lieut. Lefroy, R. A. The Observatory after being 
maintained by the Imperial Government for 14 years was transferred to 
Canadian control in 1853. While meteorological observations had been 
made from the time of the first establishment, concurrently with magnetic 
observations, it was in 1871 that the Canadian Government made its first 
grant (of $5,000) fir a meteorological service. The Bureau was first 
established on its present basis in 1877, in which year reports were received 
firom 115 stations. Daily forecasts of the weather and storm warnings 
were first issued in 1876. To 30th Tune, 1895, there have been 17,959 
storm warnings issued, of which 14,839* or 83.00 per cent, were verified. 
The Meteorological Service also issues a monthly map with a view of 
keeping the agricultural and other interested portions of the community 
posted as to the meteorological conditions prevailing. Signal discs showing 
the weather expected are displayed on the railway trains firom June to 
September for the benefit of farmers. 

Methodists — First united into one ecclesiastical organization in Canada, 
September 5th, 1883. (See Church Annals, Methodist.) 

Military Collegia, Kingston. (See Militia.) 

Military Cartridge Factory. (See Militia.) 

Militia— The records of the Militia of Canada date back to 1627, when the 
inhabitants of the Banlieue of Port Royal were required to assist the 
^r- soldiers in garrison if occasion demanded it. In the Province of Old 
Canada the record of the Militia dates back to 1648, when a few com- 
panies were organized. In 1649-51 there was a camp volant of about 100 
volunteers patrolling between Three Rivers and Montreal. One of the 
early military organizations in Canada was the Fraternity of la Tres Sainte 
Verge, in 1653, with a strength of 63 men. In 1664 the whole of the 
men in Montreal able to carry arms were enrolled as volunteers. In 1665 



First Things in Canada. 121 

the Carnigan regiment came to Canada and assisted in developing the 
militia system In 1674 Count de Frontenac gave the militia a definite 
form ; each parish or cote formed a company to be brigaded in time of 
war only. After the conquest the militia was entirely disbanded, but a 
kind of reorganization took place in 1775 on the threatened approach of 
the Republican Army commanded by Maj'^r-General Richard Montgom- 
ery and Benedict Arnold. In 18 12 the militia was organized and equipped 
and, with the few British regfulars then in the country, defeated the United 
States armies at Detroit, Queenston Heights, Lundy's Lane, Chrysler's 
Farm, Chateaupraay, etc., and captured General Hull. After 181 5 the 
force was practically disbanded. No call was made for the services of the 
railttia till the rebellion of 1837-8. On that occasion numerous corps 
were hurriedly organized and acted in concert with the regulars. In 1855, 
after the departure of most of the regulars for the Crimea, the Legislature 
of the Province of Canada voted the necessary amount for the equipment 
and pay of .StOCX) volunteers, who were styled Class *' A," authority also 
being granted to furnish arms to Class ** B," but these men were to clothe 
themselves and receive no pay. In May, 1862, the Legislature of Canada 
passed an Act for the increase of the militia with an expenditure of 
$250,000. The Trent affair, which happened in November, 1861, roused 
great enthusiasm throughout the British Provinces, and materially assisted 
the development of the volunteer movement. In 1863 the Canadian 
Legislature passed an Act to muster and drill 100,000 men during six 
days at 50 cents a day. The expenditure amounted to $450,000. Militarv 
schools were established at the time. A Commission sat to discuss mih- 
tary matters, and proposed to assemble 50,000 men for 28 days every year ; 
to enrol a reserve of 50,000 more ; to divide the country into military dis- 
tricts, and to have an armory in each. In 1864-5 ^^^ Legislature voted 
an appropriation of $384,000, bu^ the St. Albans and Fenian Raids, in 
1864, caused the expenditure to reach $774,000. In 1865 the appro- 
priation was $470,000, and the expenditure $1,285,000. In 1866-7 
the appropriation was $1,887,000, and the expenditure $1,700,000. At 
Confederation the Parliament of Canada established a Department of 
Militia and Defence, the first minister being Sir George E. Cartier. The 
first Militia Act of the Dominion was pass^ in 1868, in accordance with 
the provisions of the 15th section of the Union Act, 1867. In April, 1869, 
the Imperial authorities began to withdraw their troops from Canada, and 
in the autumn of 1870, the Citadel at Quebec was handed over to the 
Canadian authorities and Halifax then remained the only Imperial military 
station in Canada. 

The Royal Military College at Kingston was established by Act of 
Parliament, passed in May, 1874. It was opened in 1875. 

In 1882 a Government cartridge factory was established at Quebec. In 
1896 the Government ordered 40,000 Lee-Enfield rifles from the British 
authorities. 

In 1893 the Militia Act received emendations of a substantial character. 

In 1897 some of the regular forces in Halifax exchanged places with 
some of the volunteer forces in Fredericton. 

The regimental establishments ' of the permanent and active militia of 
the Dominion consisted, in 1896, of 802 officers and men of the first, and 
34,812 of the second branch, making a total of 35,616, of whom 3,040 
were officers, 2,490 siafF-sergeants and sergeants, and 30,085 rank and file. 

The total expenditure for militia purposes since Confederation is $36,- 
684,034, or a yearly average of $1,310,000. 



122 First Things in Canada. 

The Royal Canadian Artillerv was formed 20th October, 1871 ; the 
Rojral Canadian Draeoons and the Royal Regiment Canadian Infantry, 
on 2 1 St Dt'cember, 1883. 
Minenl LAoda in the 40 Mile Belt. (See Lands in B. Columbia.) 
MilitU, ActtTe, called out in defence of the country — (i) Anticipated Fenian 
raid, when 6,CX)0 men were under arms for ten days, April, 1870. (2) 
Manitoba contingent under Colonel Wolsel^ y. May, 1870 ; 750 men after- 
wards increased to 1,000. (3) Fenian raid (Eccles Hill, etc) May and 
June, 1870; 13,488 men with 18 guns were under arms for about ten 
days. (4) Fenian raid into Manitoba, 3rd October, 1871 ; 942 men for a 
few days. (5) In anticipation of disturbance at the interment of M. 
Gutlx>rd (under Imperial Pcivy Council decision), in Roman Catholic 
cemetery at Montreal, November 16th, 1875; ^hout 1100 men for a few 
hours. (6) Anticipated riot in St. John, N.B., July 12th, 1876 ; 45 men, 
one day. (7) Grand Trunk Railway disturbance, December 31st, 1876; 
240 men, two or three days. (8) Quebec, riot between ship labourers, June 
20th, 1878; 1,300 men two or three days. (9) Montreal, to maintain 
peace on 12th July, 1878 ; 3,000 men for a week. (10) Montreal, riots 
on Ottawa & Occidental Railway, August 31st, 1878 ; 239 men, tour days. 
(11) Anticipated riot, St. Andrew's, N.B., January 17th, 1879; 45 men 
two or three days. (12) Quebec, riots ship labourers, Augpist 15th, 1879; 
800 men, three days. (13) Anticipated riots, Long Point, County Nor- 
folk, Ont , prize fight, January [8th, 1880; 71 men, one day. (14) Port 
Dover, County Norfolk, one day. (15) Riot at Lingan Mines, Cape 
Breton, Nova Scotia, miners, March 24, 1883 » '^^ i^^i^* ^% months. 
(16) Anticipated election riot at Rat Portage, September 25th, 1883 ; 42 
men, one day. (17) Pontiac and Pacific Railway, near Aylmer; antici- 
pated disturbance between farmers and labourers, July 28th, 1884 ; 45 men, 
one day. (18) Disturbance at Tarn worth, Ont, Railway labourers, 
October 6th, 1884 ; 45 men, one day. (19) Anticipated riot in Winnipeg, 
November nth, 1884; 247 men, one day. (20) North- West rebellion, 
on actual service, March, 1885 ; 5,400 men about three months. Besides 
these, 1,140 men were held in readiness under canvas, and 942 (at differ- 
ent dates during the rebellion) in barracks at Toronto, Kingston, Prescott 
and Quebec. (21) Visit to Skeena river, B.C. (from Victoria) ; anticipated 
Indian trouble, July i6th, 1888, C Battery, Canadian Artillery, 41 days. 
(22) Strikeof Italian labourers at Hereford Railway, September 27th, 1888 ; 
detachment of 58th Battalion and one troop Cavalry, 7 days. (23) Anti- 
cipated riot between Red River Valley and Canadian Pacific Railways, 
October 31st, 1888 ; Mounted Infantry school corps, seven days. (24) 
Anticipated riot consequent on strike at lumber mills, Hull, P.Q., Sept. 
15th, 1891. (25) Suppression of smuggling on the lower St. Lawrence 
river, f uly 7th, 1892 ; detachment of " B " Battery, Canadian Artillery, 
20 days on revenue cutter ** Constance." (26) Similar errand same place, 
August 9ih, 1892 ; sergeant and four men " B " Battery, Canadian Artill- 
ery until Octoliei, 1892. (27) Anticipated riot of sailors and fishermen at 
Souris, P. E. I., 19th August, 1893; P. E. Island Battery Garrison 
Artillery for a few hours. (28) Disturbance between ratepayers and county 
officials in Township of Lowe, P.Q., 20th Nonember^ 1895 ; 113 officers 
and men for a few days. 
Mining Bureau — First established in Ontario, March, 1891. Archibald 
Blue first director. First established in British Columbia, January, 1896. 
W. A. Cariyle, Provincial Mineralogist, and Herbert Carmichael, Assayer. 



First Things in Canada. 123 

Minittg Lease — A raining lease for copper, on the north shore of the Gulf of 
St. Lawrence, was granted to a nephew of Jacques Cartier in 1590. 

Ministerios^ Children's Leas^ue— The first meeting held in Canada was in 
Toronto, September, 1S85, when Lady Meath, then Lady Brabazon, 
explained the aims of the League to a large and representative assembly 
of ladies interested in philanthropic work. Officers were elected, com- 
mittees arranged, and meetings held. Children are being trained to acts 
of thoughtful kindness. Work done by them is sent to mission centres. 
Beds and cots in hospitals are maintained. The Lea^e, which is world 
wide, publishes a magazine in which interesting news is recorded. 

Ministers of the Crown— First Ministers after Confederation : Minister of 
of Justice, Sir John Macdonald ; of Militia and Defence* Sir George E. 
Cartier ; Marine and Fisheries, Hon. P. Mitchell ; Public Works, Hon. 
W. Macdougall ; Customs, Sir Leonard Tilley ; Agriculture, Hon. C. J. 
Chapais ; Finance, Sir Alex. Gait ; Inland Revenue, Sir W. Howland ; 
Interior, Sir A. Campbell : Railways and Canals, Sir Charles Tupper ; 
Postmaster-General, Sir Alex. Campbell ; President of the Council, Hon. 
A. J. Blair ; Receiver-General, Sir Edward Kenny ; Secretary of State 
for Canada, Sir Hector L, Langevin ; Secretary of State for the Provinces, 
Sir Adams Archibald. 

Mint — ^The first established in Canada was at New Westminster, B.C., in 1862. 
It was only a short time in operation. A few coins were minted, and they 
are now at a high premium, $100 having been offered and refused for a 
$20 gold coin. 

Admiral Sir Isaac Cx>ffin, Bart., called himself King of the Magdalen 
Islands, and when he*^isited the island in 181 5, he took with him what... A" 



he called his little ttun^i, powerful coining press and machinery, and dies 
ready engraved^ Hgilsued coppe 
and on the rev^;;||Eir^split codfish. 



ready engraved^ HmKsaed copper pennies, having on the obverse, a seal. 



Missions — First Canadian Mission established by Canadian churches, was 
the New Hebrides Mission, 1848, by Rev. Dr. Geddie, Presbyterian 
Minister, Nova Scotia. 

Missionary — The first colonial missionary to the heathen, sent from Canada, 
was Rev. Mr. Burpee, from the Baptist body of Nova Scotia, 1848. He 
went to Burmah. The first Canadian missionary to Uganda, Africa, was 
Rev. Mr. Borup, Church of England Missionary Society, 1897. 

Missionary Socie^, Methodist — The first organized in Canada was in 
Montreal, 181 8. 

Money — The first paper money emitted in America was issued by Massachu- 
setts to defray cost of conquest of Acadia. 

Money Order — System established in the several Provinces, 1855-63. It was 
established in the Province of Canada on the ist Feby., 1855, and com- 
menced operations at 84 of the principal post offices. The first year's 
business amounted to ;f i62,ocx). The number of orders issued by Can- 
adian authorities, in 1868, was 90,163, amounting to $3,352,881. The 
number issued in 1896 was 1,131,152, and the amount $13,081,860. 

Money Orders — Interchange of, between Canada and the United States, 
carried into effect, 1875. 

Money Orders — Interchange of, between Canada and China and Japan, put 
in operation, October ist, 1889. 

Money Votes in Parliament. (See Appropriation of Public Money. ) 

Monopoly of Coal, in Nova Scotia, broken by efforts of Hons. J. W. John- 
ston and Adams (afterwards Sir Adams) Archibald, acting as delegates 



124 First Things in Canada. 

from the Nova Scotian Legislature, 1857. Previously, the General Mining 
Association held a practical monopoly of mines and minerals in Nova 
Scotia, under lease granted by George IV. to the Duke of York, of all 
mines and minerals ungranted at the date of lease. 

Monuments — The first monument erected by the Dominion Parliament was 
the statue of George Cartier, in the Parliament grounds at Ottawa. Other 
public monuments are those in the City of Quebec, on the Plains of 
Abraham and near the Esplanade, to the memory of Wolfe and Montcalm ; 
the monument at Ste. Foye in memory of the battle between the English 
and the French in 1 760 ; that at Chambly in memory of de Salaberry ; 
those at Chateauguay, Chrystler's Farm, Beaver Dam and Lundy's Lane, 
in memory of the Canadian dead who fell in battles with the United States 
forces in the war of 1812-15 ; the Kelson, the Che^nier and the Maison- 
neuve monuments in Montreal ; the Welsford and Parker monument in 
Halifax ; the monument to Brant at Brantford ; those in Toronto to 
Egerton Ryerson and Hon. George Brown ; at Three Rivers to Laviolette ; 
to Jacques Cartier at Quebec ; to Col. Williams in Port Hopie ; to Sena- 
tor Price on the Saeuenay ; to the Sharpshooters of 1885 at Ottawa ; to 
the volunteers of 1885 at Winnipeg, and to Brock on Queenston Heights; 
to Sir John A. Macdonald in Hamilton (Nov. ist, 1893), Toronto (Oct. 
13th, 1894), Montreal (June 6th, 1895), Ottawa (July ist, 1895), ^^ 
Kingston (Oct. 23rd, 1895), ^^^ ^^^ monument to Sir James Douglas in 
the Parliament Grounds in Victoria, B.C. 

Monnons arrived in North- West Territories, 1888. 

Montreal-^M. Olier, of St. Sulpice, was ambitious to form a mission in NeJ 
France, in which the sick should find a hospital ; the young, edacational 
facilities ; the Sulpicians, a theological seminary ; and all, protection from 
the Indians. • 

He and his associates, after purchasing the Island of Montreal from one 
of the One Hundred Associates, organized the Society of Notre Dame de 
Montreal, adopted Ville-Marie de Montreal as the name ot the settlemeni 
they anticipatai would form around the hospital, the convent, the seminj 
ary and the fort, and selected M. de Maisonneuve as the first governor oi 
general manager. Arriving at the island in the autumn of 1641, the 
G. M. prepar^ the site and had it formally dedicated. In 1642 it was 
enclosed with palisades and guarded with cannon. Within the enclosure 
were housed the eighteen persons composing the population. The Hotel 
Dieu, a massive stone fighting fortress of a hospital, was b^[un, finishe' 
and opened in two years' time. In 1653 actual colonization bqgan, an( 
grants of land were given. The first census was taken in 1667, wbi 
there was found to be a population of 766 persons. A police force 
then organized, and the first public squire formed in which was held 
first public market. In 1672 the streets were named, such as they are' 
to-day with a few exceptions. In 1685 the town was surrounded with a 
wooden palisade, 15 feet high, with four gates. In 1688 the population 
had reached beyond the 1,000 notch, being 1,360. In 17 17 the inhabi- 
tants were permitted to establish an Exchange or Boutse. In 1721 a 
regular postal service between Montreal and Quebec was established. In 
1739 the population of Montreal and banlieue was 4*210. In 1760 the 
town capitulated to the English soldiery. In 1765 the population was 
5,733. In 1775 ^^^ city was occupied by the American General Mont- 
gomery, and in the same year the Gazette LUtiraire shed its light upon 
the popular intellect, followed in 1785 by the MontrecU GazetUy which has 



First Things in Canada. 125 

held on its way with undimmed brightness ever since. In 1779 the first 
rudimentary canals were begun and Montreal commenced to stretch out 
lis hands to the £Bur north-west by organizing the North- West Trading 
Company in 1782. Montreal began the present century with a population 
of 22,000 persons. Waterworks were begun in 1801 and completed by 
1832. In 181 7 the Bank of Montreal was founded. In 1832 Montreal 
was made a port of entry, was incorporated with a mayor, and began 
the first line of docks on the river front. Gas works were started in 1836, 
and the city rejoiced in the ^ear of the Queen's accession (1837), in the 
opening of its first railway hne, the Cbamplain and St. Lawrence, a few 
months before that auspicious event took place. In 1841 an expansion of 
the Committee of Trade (established in 1822), resulted in the formation of 
the Montreal Board of Trade in 1842, with J. T. Brondgeest its first 
president. In 1850 foreign vessels were first permitted to proceed to 
Montreal, under license, for the purpose of loading — returning to Quebec 
for sea clearance. In 1853 the *' Genova,'' the first ocean steamship to 
arrive in Montreal, put in an appearance. In 1854 John Redpatb estab- 
lished his great sugar refinery. By that date the ocean channel had been 
deepened to i6>^ feet. In 1856 the Allan Bros, established a fortnightly 
line of steamers to England ; the first train trom Montreal to Toronto 
left on October 27th, and several important fiaictories had found suitable 
sites on the banks of the Lachine Canal. In 1863 the tea business found 
a centre of operations in Montreal. In 1876 the Intercolonial Railway 
was opened. In 1879 a second large sugar refinery was established, and 
)he railway to Quebec on the north shore of the St. Lawrence completed. 
In 1882 the ocean channel was deepened to 25 feet, (increased in 1885 to 
27^ feet), and the length of the wharf accommodation was five miles. 
On the 28th June, 1887, the first through train to the Pacific coast, via 
the C. P. Ry., left Montreal. In 1888 Montreal was practically made a 
free port (except pilotage) by the Dominion Government assuming the 
Lake St. Peter's channel debt, and by the removal of wharf dues on 
steamers and sailing vessels. On the 3rd June, 1889, the C. P. Railway 
cars entered Halifax and Montreal, and* the interior country had two 
winter ports, St. John and Hali&x. In 189 1 the population of Montreal 
was 216,650, with a very large overflow in municipalities immediately in 
contact with, but not then annexed to, Montreal. 

Mortuary Statistics— The reti^ns of deaths in cities of Canada were first 
published by the Dominion Government through the Department of 
Agriculture, in March, 1884. After having collected and published them 
for eight years, the Federal Government gave up the task, the Provincial 
Governments having in nearly all the provinces undertaken the work. 

Mounted Police— After the Hudson Bay territory was purchased by the 
Dominion Government, it became necessary to prepare for the protection 
of those who were going in to form settlements. Accordingly, Parliament 
in 1873 gave the Government authority to organij^e a force to be called 
the North- West Mounted Police, for the better preservation of law and 
order in the North- West Territories, the number of men being limited to 
300. In the autumn of 1873, ^ small force of 190 men was organized. 
Subsequent Acts have amended the original provisions in various ways, 
and the number of men is now limited to 1,000. The North- West Terri- 
tories are divided into eight divisions, and these are sub-divided into a 
total of over 100 stations. The force consists of one Commission, one 
Acting Commission, eight superintendents, 29 inspectors, five asst. sur- 



126 First Things in Canada. 

geons, two vet. surgeons, 50 staff surgeons, 51 sergeants, 51 corporals, 
471 constables and 72 scouts, making in all a total of 741 men, with 768 
horses and 18 ponies. These patrol the frontier for a distance of 80c 
miles, keeping down cattle-raiding, stealing and smuggling — especially oi 
intoxicants. They watch the Indians, enforce the ordinance against 
prairie fires, have charge of the boundary quarantine^ etc., working over 
an area of 300,000 square miles. The Inspectors try criminal cases. In 
1896 there were 1035 criminal convictions in the North- West, about three- 
fifths of which were tried by the Mounted Police Inspectors. 

Mount Allison Academy for Boys, in Sackville, New Brunswick, was 
founded, through the liberality of Charles F. Allison, in 1843, in connec- 
tion with the Methodist denomination of the Maritime Provinces. Mount 
Allison College was founded in 1862. 

Muntdpal ConTention met in Toronto to consider tax exemptions and 
general municipal matters, November, 1889. About 80 mayors and others 
connected with municipal government in Ontario were present, and strong 
opposition to property exeniptions was manifested. 

Muniapal Institutions— The Constitution of 1663 made provision for the 
election of municipal officers, called Syndics, to note any infractions of 
public rights in the large communities ; but the authorities opposed every 
effort to mtroduce anything like free municipal government into Canada. 
In 1788 Lord Dorcnester, by proclamation, 27th July, divided Upper 
Canada into four districts, viz. , Lunenbourg, Mecklenbourg, Nassau and 
Hesse, after German principalities connected with the House of Guelph or 
Brunswick- Lunebourg. These were re- named, in the first Session of the 
first Legislature of Upper Canada, 1792, the Eastern, Midland, Home and 
Western Districts. (In 1800 there were in addition, the Niagara, the 
London and the Newcastle Districts.) The management of local affairs 
in the districts was entrusted to Justices of the Peace, the courts of quarter 
sessions meeting twice a year at defined centres. In 1793 an Act was 
passed to provide for the appointment of Parish and Town officers. In 
towns. Boards of Police were gradually constituted, the members thereof 
being elected by householders, one of the oldest towns thus empowered 
being Brock ville, by Statute of 1831. The incorporation of towns, as 
Hamilton in 1833, and Toronto, Belleville, Cornwall, Cobourg and others 
in 1834, occasioned the granting by the Legislature of larger powers of 
local self-government. In 1841 the Districts Council Act was passed, by 
the provisions of which each district constituted, from 1st Jan., 1842, a 
Municipal Corporation, entitled to elect representatives to a District 
Council, empowered to pass by-laws relating generally to local matters 
and to take the place formerly filled by the quarter sessions. In 1847 
the householders of every town and village not specially incorporated were 
empowered by Act to elect Police Trustees. In 1849 the Legislature 
passed an Act to provide by one general law for the erection of Municipal 
Councils, and the establishment and regulation of Police in and for the 
several counties, cities, towns, townships and villages in Upper Canada. 
This general Municipal Act may be deemed the basis of the municipal 
institutions of the several Provinces of the Dominion, in all of which 
(excepting Prince Edward Island) the Legislatures have been largely 
guided by the Upper Canada Act of 1849. Since the passing of this Act 
it has been altered in its scope, in some directions enlarged and in others 
limited. It has been consolidated seven times, in consequence of the 
changes made in it In Nova Scotia an Act was passed in 1879, provid- 



First Things in Canada. 127 

ing for the incorporation of the several counties of the Province, having 
been substituted for a permissive Act. 

National Anthem — " God Save the Queen " was first sung by the members of 
the Canadian House of Commons in the Session of 1878, the occasion 
beinjp^ the farewell visit of the Governor-Generars wife, the Countess of 
Dufxerin, to the chamber. 

National Council of Women of Canada— Founded October, 1893, in affilia- 
tion with the International Council of Women of the world. It is com- 
posed of five nationally organized societies and twenty local councils, 
wnich form a chain from the Atlantic to the Pacific. These local councils 
in turn are composed of federations of various societies of women interested 
in Philanthropy, Religion, Education, Literature, Art, and Social Reform. 
The Countess of Aberdeen has been president since the formation of the 
Council. It has held annual meetings in Ottawa (1894), Toronto (1895), 
Montreal (1896), and Halifax (1897). The object of the Association is to 
develop the application of the Golden Rule to society, customs and laws. 

National P6^cj— Genesis of: 

1. Hon. J. W. Johnston, leader of the Conservative party in Nova Scotia, in 
a speech delivered in the Legislative Assembly of that Province in the 
session of 1847, said he had prepared a resolution which he would read : 
'* Resolved^ that the policy Nova Scotia requires is that the duties levied for 
the purpose of revenue should be regulated by such a tariff as will afford 
for us a high practical encouragement to the productions and industries of 
this country. Mr. Johnston said he had been very much struck with an 
expression in the speech of the President of the United States, that it was 
the policy of that large commercial nation to lay their duties so as to 
answer the double purpose of revenue and of protection of home industries. 
*• This," said Mr. Johnston, ** I believe to be the true policy. Could we 
enjoy free trade in its proper sense I have no doubt it would be best for 
Nova Scotia ; but so long as the United States of America place our ex- 
ports under burdensome and almost prohibitory duties, it is absurd to talk 
of free trade." 

2. A movement in favour of readjustment of tariff, so as to give greater 
encouragement to home manufactures, was inaugurated in Toronto, 24th 
March, 1858. An association for the promotion of Canadian industries 
was formed, the basis principle of which is found in a single sentence : 
" Impose higher rates of duties on those foreign products which come into 
competition with our owil" W. B. Jarvis was chairman. Sixty-two 
names of members of the association are published in the first report, and 
among these, as one of the committee, is that of Sir Mackenzie Bowell. 
Hon. Isaac Buchanan was a leading spirit. Under the direction of the 
association, petitions were prepared for presentation to the Canadian 
Legislature, and an active propagandism was instituted. 

3. In 1874 the Halifax Reporter advocated the policy of protection, vdth the 
result that the friends of the policy determined to test the strength of the 
sentiment by bringing out, in Halifax, an advocate of the National Policy 
to oppose Hon. Mr. Jones in the general elections of that year. Mr. 
Jones took strong ground against protection, and, being elected, was, 
under the circumstances, compelled to oppose strenuously all the efforts of 
Mr. Workman and others, in 1876 and 1877, to induce the Mackenzie- 
Cart wright Government to adopt the protective policy. He was successful. 
It was in the campaign of 1874 that Sir John Thompson came prominently 
to the front as an advocate of the protective policy. 



128 First Things in Canada. 

4. In 1876 Sir John Macdonald, leader of the Opposition, moved a resolution 
in the Canadian Commons, that ** this House regrets Uiat His Excellency 
has not been advised to recommend to Parliament a measure for the re- 
adjustment of the tariff, which would not only aid in alleviating the stag- 
nation of business deplored by the Government, but would also afford 
fitting encouragement and protection to the struggling manufactures and 
industries, as well as to the agricultural products, of Canada." Lost. 

5. In 1877, 2nd March, Sir John Macdonald moved a resolution in the Com- 
mons, *' That this House regrets that the financial policy submitted bjr the 
Government increases the burden of taxation on the people without any 
compensating advantage to Canadian industries ; and further, that this 
House is of opinion that the deficiency of the revenue should be met by a 
diminution of the expenditure, aided by such a readjustment of the tariff as 
will benefit and foster the agricultural, mining and manufacturing interests 
of the Dominion. " Division taken. Lost ; 109 to 78. 

6. In 1878, March 7th, Sir John Macdonald moved the following resolution : 
*' Resohfed—TYi?x this House is of opinion that the welfare of Canada 
requires the adoption of a National Policy, which, by a judicious readjust- 
ment of the tariff, vdll benefit the Agricultural, the Minmg, the Mauufac- 
turing and other interests of the Dominion ; that such a policy will retain 
in Canada thousands of our fellow countrymen, now obliged to expatriate 
themselves in search of the employment denied them at home ; will restore 
prosperity to our struggling industries now so sadly depressed ; will pre- 
vent Canada from being a sacrifice market ; will encourage and develop 
an active interprovincial trade ; and moving (as it ought to do) in a direc- 
tion of a reciprocity of tariffs with our neighbors, so far as the varied 
interests of Canada may demand, will greatly tend to procure for this 
country, eventually, a reciprocity of trade. His resolution was negatived 
on the 13th March, 104 to 77. 

7. Mr. C. C. Colby, the present President of the Privy Council, in the House 
of Commons, March, 1878, made a powerful speech in favour of Sir John's 
amendment. It was published and circulated throughout the Dominion 
during the election campaign of the same year, and contributed more than 
any other single effort to the success of the policy in the appeal to the 
people on that issue, made in September, 1878. 

8. In September, 1878, the general elections took place, resulting in the 
return, by a large majority, of the supporters of the National Policy. They 
were returned again in the general elections of 1882, the tariff having been 
readjusted in 1879, in accordance with the policy enunciated by Sir John 
Macdonald in his resolutions of the Sessions of 1876, '77 and 78. They 
were successful in the general elections of 1887 and 1891. 

National Policy was adopted by Canadian Parliament in session of 1879. 

Natural Products — Canada first, by legislation, proposed mutual free admis- 
sion of natural products by United States and Canada, in 1847. '^^^ P^ 
posal, somewhat modified, was renewed in 1867. It was still further 
modified, by statute, in session of 1888, and was repealed in 1894, certain 
sections of the Act "Duties of Customs," being substituted. 

New France — The name was first given to a portion of this continent in 
1523-24 by Verrazano, a Florentine navigator, who, under a coramissioo 
from Francis I. of France, sailed along the shores of North America from 
Florida to Cape Breton, and claimed the coast from Nova Scotia to Caro- 
lina and all the regions lying beyond, as possessions of Francis I. 

New Brunswick— First English settlement in 1762; first separated from 
Nova Scotia, 1784; first legislature, 3rd January, 1786. 



First Things in Canada. 129 

Naval Special — The first train load of British Jack tars to cross Canada by^ 
the Canadian Pacific Railway left Vancouver 5th December, 1891. About 
300 sailors of Her Majesty's ships "Champion" and ** Pheasant" com- 
posed the party. A large Union jack was affixed to the engine. A naval 
pennant floated from the centre of the train of ten cars and two engines, 
and the rear engine carried the British ensign. The train was, in fact, 
transformed into a British man-of-war. The first big reception the " boys " 
got was at Calgary,' where the population turned out en masse and cheered 
them on their journey. At Winnipeg 10,000 citizens and the officers and 
men of the Royal School of Mounted Infantry, the Winnipeg Field Bat- 
tery and the loth Royals, all in full uniform, received them. All along 
the route to Halifax they were warmly received. 

Newfoundland and Union — Newfoundland was invited to send delegates to 
the conference of British North American statesmen, which met in Quebec 
in 1864, to discuss the Union question. She sent Messrs. Shea and Carter. 
The proposals of the conference were not accepted by the ancient colony. 
In 1869 ^he Council and Assembly of Newfoundland passed resolutions 
stating the terms upon which they would enter the Union. These and the 
counter proposals of the Government of Canada were considered by a com- 
miUee of the Privy Council of Canada and the Newfoundland delegates in 
June, 1869. Nothing came of the effort except a trip up the Ottawa to 
Chats Falls. In 1888 an effort was made to get the two parties together, 
and despatches passed between the Governor-General and the Govern- 
ment of Newfoundland about the time to hold the conference. As the 
parties interested could not agree to the extent necessary to fix a date for 
meeting, the effort did not succeed. 

In November, 1892, a conference was held in Halifax to discuss several 
matters connected with the fisheries, the tariff and the boundary questions, 
conclusions to he ad referendum to the respective governments. Mr. 
Bowell, Mr. Chapleau and Sir John Thompson represented the Govern- 
ment of Canada, and Sir William Whiteway and Messrs. A. W. Harvey 
and Robert Bond the Newfoundland Government. The Canadian dele- 
gates proposed union as a solution of the difficulties between the two 
countries. The Newfoundland delegates objecting, the discussion was 
confined to the questions immediately the cause of the conference. In 
1895, Messrs. Bond, Emerson and Horwood were appointed a deputation 
to Canada to discuss the question of union. Sir Mackenzie Bowell, Sir 
Adolphe Caron and Messrs. Foster and Haggart were appointed a com- 
mittee of the Privy Council to discuss the terms of union with the New- 
foundland deputation. The conference began on the 4th April and ad- 
journed sine die 16th April. A grand banquet was given by the Govern- 
ment of Canada and citizens of Ottawa. The proposals did not catch the 
Newfoundlanders. *i^^ 

Newspapers — ^The first published in British North America was the Halifax '' 



I 



Gazette^ first issued 23rd March, 1752, by John Bushell (a copy ot this - V 
issue is in the Library of the Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston).*^ ^ 
In Quebec, the first published was the Quebec Gazette^ issued June 21st, 
1764 ; in Upper Canada, the Upper Canada Gazette^ first issued April 
i8th, 1793, a^ Newark ; in New Brunswick, the Royal Gazette and New 
Brunswick Advertiser ^ nth October, 1785, by Christopher Sower, King's 
Printer ; in P. E. Island, the Royal Gazette^ 1791 ; in British Columbia, 
the British Colonist ^ 1858 ; in Manitoba, the Free Press ^ 1872, and in the 
North- West Territories,- the Nor'- Wester^ 1859. 
9 



I30 



First Things in Canada. 



Newspapers, French— The Quebec Gazette^ published in 1764, contaiaed 
alternate columns in French and English. The first published wholly in 
French was Tant pis, tant Mieux, Montreal, 1778 ; Valentine Jotaid, 
editor ; Fleur^f Mesplet, printer. 

Newspapers, Daily — The first daily newspaper in Canada was the Montreal 
Daily Advertiser, 1833. '^^^ Royal Standard, Toronto, was the first 
daily newspaper published in Ontario, 1836. The editor started on his 
journalistic career with this editorial sentence : " The Royal Standard, 
the first daily newspaper ever published in Upper Canada, commences its, 
career at a crisis big with unborn events and instinct with the spirit of 
change." 

Newspaper, Illustrated— The first regular illustrated newspaper in Canada, 
was the Canadian Illustrated News^ first issued in 1870. 

Newspap^, Religious — The first religious newspaper in Ontario was the 
Christian Guardian, Toronto, 1829. The Montreal Witness was do| 
established until 1846. 

Newspaper, Penny — The first penny newspaper in Canada and in the Bntish 
Empire, was the St. John, N.B., News, first published in 1838 by George 
E. Fenety. 

Newspapers — Analysis of the newspapers and periodicals of Canada gives tbe 
following results for the year 1895 : — 



Provinces. 


Q 


n 


^1 


1 






1 


1 

5. 


(8 


B. Columbia 


7 
3 
7 
2 
8 
44 

18 


.... 


I 
4 

2 


16 
34 
27 
13 

10 
80 


.... 


I 
2 
I 


4 
13 
12 




49 
16 

71 

534 

14 

150 


Manitoba 


New Brunswick 

N. W. Territories 


Nova Scotia 


4 

I 


1 

I 

6 


14 


8 
96 


I 


Ontario 


P. E. Island 


Quebec 




7 


35 


I 




Totals 


92 


5 


25 


596 


6 


25 


168 


2 


919 





Newspaper Enterprise, Early— In the Christian Guardian, issued during the 
first week of 1830, H. Norton & Co.» Kingston, and W. Weller, York, 
announce " to the proprietors and editors of the different papers in the 
Eastern part of the Province (Ontario) that they would be prepared to 
deliver the forth-coming speech of the Lieut. -Governor (Sir John Colbome) 
at the opening of the Session to them at Kingston the day after it is issued 
from the press at York " (Toronto), so that it could be forwarded by mail 
to Montreal on the following Monday. The House met on the 8ih Jan. 
in 1830, which would be Friday. The quick despatch proposed to be 
effected by the joint efforts of Messrs. Norton & Weller would enable the 
people of Montreal to read the Governor's speech in Tuesday morniDg's 
newspaper. On the fifth day after delivery the Governor's speech woold 
become public property in Montreal in 1830. To-day, the fint half of a 



CORRECTION. 

Some mixing up of material caused an error or two in the paragraph relat- 
l lo the Government of the Northwest Territories. The following is substi- 
ed :— 

Brth-West Territories were governed (ist) by the Lieut. -Governor of 
Manitoba, the first (Governor being Hon. A. G. Archibald, appointed 15th 
July, 1870, and succeeded by Hon. Alex. Morris, appointed 2nd Dec, 
1872. (2nd) By a Lieut. -Governor and Executive Council (Chap. 49, 
Acts of 187$), Hon. David Laird, appointed 7th October, 1876, being the 
first Lieut. -Governor. The first Council (appoinle<i by the Lieut. -Governor, 
by and >viih the advice of the Queen's Privy Council of Canada) was com- 
posed of Matthew Ryan and Lieut. -Colonel Hugh Richardson, Stipendiary 
Magistrates (^Jir-<7^cw members), and Lieut. -Colonel James F. McLeod, 
C M.G. ; Pascal Brilleurd and Amedee E. Forget. (3rd) By a Lieut. - 
Governor and by a Council partly elected and partly nominated, under 
the pi ©visions of Chap. 25 (sec. 15) Acis of 1880. Under this Act, the 
fisst election was in the district of Lome, March 25th, 1881, and the first 
member elected in the North-West Territories was Lawrence Clarke. The 
Council was nominated by the Governor General in Council. (4lh) By a 
Lieut. -Governor a«id an Advisory Council of four persons selected by the 
Lieut. -Governor from the Legislative Assembly of 22 members provided 
by the same Act (Chap. 19, Acts of 1888) ; the Advisory Council acting 
on matters of finance and holding office during pleasure. The first Advisory 
Board consisted of F. VV G. Haultain, D. F. Jelly, H. Mitchell and Wm. 
Sutherland. Legal experts not exceeding three in number were appointed 
by the Governor in Council to aid His Honour in legal questions. (5ih) 
By a Lieut. -Governor and a Legislative Assembly with powers the same 
as those conferred on the Legislatures of the Provinces under the Union 
Act of 1867, sec. 92, except the borrowing of money on the sole credit of 
the Territories. The Executive consisted of the Lieut. -Governor and a 
committee of four members selected by the Lieut. -Governor, Chap 22, 
Acis of 1891. (6th) By a Lieut. -Governor and an Executive Council 
selected by the Lieut. -Governor from the Legislative Assembly ; the 
members so selected having to be re-elected on accepting office under the 
Crown ; Chap. 28th, Acts of 1897, cominy: into force ls>t October, 1897. 

In 27 years the North-West Territories passed from pupilage to the full 
enjoyment of Home Rule and responsible Government. 



First Things in Canada. 131 

Governor's speech in any Province of the Dominion could be in type in all 
the cities of the country before the Governor had delivered his concluding 
sentence to the faithful representatives of the people. 

iewspapers first carried by Pust Office Department, postage free, from office 
of publication, 1882. 

(iagara Falls — The first mention of these celebrated falls is in Lalement's 
Relation of 1641 ; the first (and only) record of their running dry, 3oih 
March, 1848, when an ice jam above the falls held back the waters of the 
lake for several hours. 

[iagara's First Bridre— During the winter of 1846 the State of New York 
and the Province of Canada granted charters to the Niagara Falls Suspen- 
sion Bridge Co. The joint corporation made a contract with Charles 
Ellet, a bridge builder of Philadelphia, to build a wire railway 
bridge across Niagara River, about two miles below the Falls. Mr. 
EHet, on his arrival at the Village of Niagara Falls in Jan., 1847, con- 
sidered that there should be some immediate means of communication 
across the gorge without the trouble of going to Lewiston, seven miles 
below. He planned a wooden tower on each side, 25 feet high. From 
these was stretched a 36 strand wire, on which ran a saddle with two 
grooved wheels, having suspended from it an iron basket of latticed and 
rivetted iron strips, with room for two persons to sit vis-a-vis on a wooden 
bottom. The first passage was made in the spring of 1848 by Engineer 
Ellet. 

Hckel — The Sudbury deposits jvere first discovered in 1885 ^X ^^* McConnell, 
while out looking for tie timber for the C.P.R., then in course of construc- 
tion. Nickel is specially adapted for toughening steel and iron, and 
hence is needed in the manufacture of gun metal and armour-plates. The 
world's production heretofore has been 1,500 tons annually. The metal 
can be produced in unlimited quantities at low rates in the Sudbury region, 
which is several miles wide and about 50 miles long, and contains gold, 
nickel, copper and other minerals. 

Ion-intercourse Act — First one was passed by United States, in 181 4. It 
was entitled ** Non-intercourse with Canada." Another Act was passed, 
declaring non-intercourse with Canada, in 1828, the President issuing 
proclamation. 

trmal Schools — The first in Ontario was opened in 1847. 
rth-West Boundaries of Ontario definitely settled in 1884. North and 
North- Eastern boundaries were defined in 1889. 

lorth-West Territories divided for postal purposes, into districts of Alberta, 
Athabasca, Saskatchewan and Assiniboia, May, 1882. Further division 
was made on 2nd October, 1895, when the Districts of Ungava, Franklin, 
Yakon and Mackenzie were created by proclamation. 

forth-West Territories made a part of the Dominion, July 15th, 1870 ; 
erected into a Government separate from Manitoba, October, 1876 ; first 
represented in the Dominion Parliament, Session of 1887 ; first secured 
representation in the Cabinet, Sept., 1888, Hon. E. Dewdney becoming 
Minister of the Interior. 

lorth-West Territories were governed, at first, under the administration of 
the Lieutenant-Governor of Manitoba ; secondly, by a Lieutenant-Governor 
and Council, nominated by the Dominion Government (Act of 1880) ; 
thirdly, by Lieutenant-Governor and Council, partly elected and partly 
nominated ; fourthly, in 1888, by Lieutenant-Governor and Elective 
Assembly, first Elective Assembly sitting in 1888. In the Session of 1890 



132 First Things in Canada. 

an Act was introduced providing for the adoption, by the North-West 
Territories, of responsible government as developed in the other Provinces. 
Amendments to this Act were carried in the Sessions of 1S91, iS94and 
1S95. Under these the powers conferred on the Legislative Assembly (to 
consist of 29 members), are the same as those conferred upon the other Pro- 
vinces by the 92nd section of the Union Act of 1867, except the borrowing 
of money on the sole credit of the Territories. An Executive Committee 
of the Legislative Assembly was created in 1894. An Executive Council 
will be established on 1st Oct., 1897, the members of which will have to 
appeal to their constituencies for re-election. 

North-west Territories first voted by ballot in Federal elections of 1S96. 
Authority given them by Section 10, Chap. 15, Federal Acts of 1894. 

Notes, Free Redemption of— The Merchants Bank of Halifax was the lint 
bank to move in obtaining free redemption of its notes, in all parts of tbe 
Dominion, by arrangement with the Merchants Bank of Montreal in 1887.; 
In connection with the Banking Act of 1890, an agreement was entered! 
into by the banks with each other to ensure free redemption of the notes of 
all banks throughout all Canada. 

Nova Scotia — The name first appears in the Charter granted by James I. to 
Sir W. Alexander, 1621. 

Nova Scotia— In 1759, a Committee of Council was appointed, to examine 
the various systems of law in force in the Old Colonies. It reported that! 
the laws of Virginia were found to be the most applicable. 

Nova Scotia— The French attempted to occupy it in 1598, and again the 
following year. In 1605, a French colony was established there, and wis 
the first actual settlement by Europeans within the boundaries of the 
Dominion of Canada. In 162 1 Nova Scotia was annexed to Scotlaod 
and named Nova Scotia ^ James I., and in 1625 the Scottish Order ol 
Baronets was founded. Nova Scotia was ceded to France by Charles I., 
whereupon Richelieu formed a colonization company (with the direction 
to exclude Protestants). It was conquered by Lord Protector Cromwell 
Again ceded to France, it remained really, or nominally, under France tlB 
ceded to Great Britain by the Treaty of Utrecht, in 171 3. The first legis- 
lative step towards a federal union of the British North American pro 
vinces was made by the Legislature of Nova Scotia by the unanimous vou 
of the Assembly in 1861. 

Nova Scotia Institate of Science— This institute was founded in Hali&xii 
the winter of 1862-63, the late Hon. P. C. Hill, D.C.L., being the fiid 
president. Its objects are the encouragement of original research, {a) bj 
providing means of research, viz. , libraries and collections ; (d) by the &■ 
cussion of the results of researches carried on by its members, and ({) the 
publication of such researches when considered of permanent value. It 
has issued its ** Proceedings and Transactions " every year since its fouwla' 
tion, and has accumulated a valuable library, consisting chiefly of pub 
cations of scientific and other associations with which it is in correspci 
ence. It transfers all collections it may acquire to the Provincial Musei 

Novel — First novel composed in Canada was the ** History of Emily Ml 
tague," by Mrs. Frances Brooke. It was a series of letters addressed fi 
Sillery by Emily Montague, to some military admirers in Quebec, Md 
real and New York, and to some British noblemen, friends of her 6itbi 
It was dedicated to Sir Guy Carleton, the Govemor-in-Chief, 1769. H 
authoress was the wife of the Chaplain of the garrison at Quebec, andd 
work gives graphic sketches of garrison life and of life in Quebec at I 
time. 



First Things in Canada. > 133 

NamisiiiatiC Museum, of Laval University, founded 1859. 

Numismatic Society of Montreal, founded 1862. Scope enlarged 1866, in 
accordance with its new name, Numismatic and Antiquarian Society of 
Montreal. Its object is the promotion of numismatic and antiquarian 
research, through (0) the study of Canadian history and archaeology ; {&) 
the formation of a museum of Canadian and other antiquities and a public 
library of antiquarian and general literature. Since its incorporation in 
1870, it has published 16 volumes of proceedings, and has held three 
exhibitions: (i) The Caxton exhibition of manuscripts, books and engrav- 
ings in 1877 ; (2) the Canadian historical portrait exhibition, in commemo- 
ration of the 25th anniversary of the Society in 1887, and (3) the Montreal 
historical exhibition, commemorative of the 250th anniversary of the found- 
ing of Montreal in 189 1. In 1894 the Society induced the City of Mont- 
real to purchase the Chateau de Ramesay, and in May, 1895, began to 
fit up the old historicil building as a museum, which was opened to the 
public free, in April, 1896. 

Oats — First recorded statement to Department of Agriculture (1888), respect- 
ing yield of oats in district around Calgary (N.W.T.), shows that on one 
farm the average of a ten-acre field was 97 bushels to the acres, with an 
average of 47 pounds to the bushel. 

Oil Wells— The first were dug in 1854. L. A. Vaugn, in November, i860, 
struck oil at a depth of 85 feet. This was the beginning of the town of 
Petrolia, Ont. 

According to the census of 189 1, there were 12 refineries in Ontario, 
employing about 250 men, and it was estimated that there were 3,500 oil 
wells pumped. In 1894 the production of the oil refineries of Canada 
amounted to 22,542,000 galls., of which 11,290,000 galls, were illuminat- 
ing oils. The total value of the output, including paraffine wax, was 
$1,567,000. The consumption of oil in Canada averages about 17,000,000 
galls, yearly, of which 10,600,000 are Canadian. 

Orang^e Lodge — First in Canada formed in Brockville, 1823. No. i Lodge 
still exists. 

Orangemen — ^The first Bill introduced in the House of Commons for the In- 
corporation of the Orange body was moved on 19th March, 1883. It 
received the six months' hoist by 106 to 70. It was again introduced in 
the Session of 1884, but the motion for second reading was defeated by 
105 yeas to 68 nays. The Bill was carried in the Session of 1890 by large 
majorities in Commons and Senate. 

OttaiPira was first settled by two persons named Berry and Frith, in 181 7. 

Otta'VTa River — First Indian name for it was Kanat-sio. 

Ottawa City— Selected by the Queen as the Capital in 1858. The Prince of 
Wales laid the foundation stone of the Parliament Buildings in i860. 

Ottawa River— First discovered by Champlain, June, 161 3. It was called by 
the French, Rivier des Algonquins ; its next name was the Grand River, 
and lastly the Ottawa. 

Ontario Artillery Association formed 20th December, i860. 

Ordnance Lands placed under control of Canadian Government, 1856. 

Organization of the Empire — Francis Bacon, in a letter to King James on 
the true greatness of the Kingdom of Great Britain, declared the true prin- 
ciple to be that the stability of the Empire required a reciprocity of (a) 
rights, (b) benefits, (c) obligations, among all its parts. Adam Smith, 
during the Revolutionary War between Great Britain and some of her 



134 First Things in Canada. 

Colonies in North America, suggested offering representation with taxation 
to each Province that would detach itself from the Confederacy. Robert 
Gourlay, in 1825, proposed that Canada should have representatives iD the 
Imperial Parliament to speak but not to vote. A Canadian journalist, 
David Chisholm, published, in 1832, a book on the right of British 
Colonists to representation in the British Parliament. *' We desire," he 
said, " to be put on the same footing with the other members of the 
family. Being now of mature age, we desire that our leading strings may 
be cut.'' Robert Lowe (Lord Sherbrooke) in the Legislature of New 
South Wales in 1844, advocated the ** far wiser and nobler policy of knitting 
Great Britain and her Colonies into one mighty confederacy, girding the 
earth in its whole circumference, and confident against the world in arts 
and arms." Hon. Joseph Howe, in 1854, in a speech delivered by him in I 
the Legislature of Nova Scotia, proposed the re-organization of the Empire, 
so that Colonists could take part in the deliberations shaping the policy of 
the Empire. This speech was published as a pamphlet in London in 1855. 
Hon. Francis Hincks, then in London, published an elaborate reply, 
attacking all Mr. Howe's propositions. In 1855 T. C Haliburton (Sam 
Slick) wrote in *' Nature and Human Nature :" '< England has three 
things among which to choose for her North American Colonies : ist, 
Incorporation with herself and representation in Parliament ; 2nd, Inde- 
pendence, and 3rd, Annexation with the United States." 

In addition to the speech of 1854, Mr. Howe wrote a letter to Hon. C. 
B. Adderley, on " the relation of England with the Colonies " (London, 
1863), and " organization of the Empire " (London, 1863). He took an 
active part in the formation of the British Empire Association (1862), now 
the Royal Colonial Institute. 

Pacific Ocean Coast Line— Russia claimed jurisdiction, in 1822, over the 
coast of the American continent, on the Pacific Ocean side, as far down as 
51** north latitude. England declared she could not submit to sncb usur- 
pation. The United States made a vehement protest against the Russian 
claims. The result was that in 1823 a treaty was signed at Washington 
by Great Britain, the United States and Russia, under the provisions of 
which the latter retired north beyond 55°. Canada thus secured 6 d^^ees 
in width of sea coast, instead of the one or two decrees which would have 
been her Pacific Ocean sea-front had not the Russian claim been success- 
fully resisted by the United States and Great Britain. The United States 
purchased Alaska from Russia in 1867, for the sum of $7,200,ooa It has 
proved to be worth the money in seal pups and gold mines. 

Paper Mill— The first was erected at St. Andrew's, P.Q., 1803. In 1890, 
according to the census returns, there were 34 paper mills in Canada, em- 
ploying a capital of over four and a half million dollars, with i ,800 em- 
ployees, receiving an annual wage of $656,400. Value of products, 
$2,575,447. (See Wood Pulp.) 

Paper Money — First issued in Nova Scotia, under an Act of the Province, 
1817. 

Parcel Post established between Canada and United States, Jan. 12th, 188S. 

Parishes were at first used in Quebec as ecclesiastical local divisions. Their 
extent was exactly defined in September, 1721, by a regulation made by 
Messrs. de Vaudreuil and Begon, assisted by the Bishop of Quebec 

Parishes — First established in New Brunswick, for civil purposes, 1786. ; 
They were called Parishes, after the example of Virginia and Maryland, 



First Things in Canada. 135 

from which States U.E. Loyalists came to New Brunswick. They were 
introduced for the same purpose in Upper Canada in 1800, but none 
remain in the latter Province. 
Par of Exchangee was first made 9^ throughout the Dominion in 1871. Up 
to that date the par of Exchange in Nova Scotia was 12^, being based 
upon the old Mexican pillar dollar. 
Pardoning^ Power — Prior to the appointment of the Marquis of Lome as 
Governor-General of Canada (1078) the commissions and instructions to 
the Governors-General were such that the Governor-General was under- 
stood to be bound to consult his ministers in all cases of application for 
mitigation or remission of sentences, but he remained at liberty to disregard 
their advice and to exercise the Royal prerogative according to his own 
judgnaent and upon his own responsibility as an Imperial officer. When 
Hon. Eld ward Blake was in England in 1876, he contended that the pre- 
rogative of mercy should be exercised in Canada just as it was in England, 
pursuant to the advice of the ministry, as well in capital as in non-capital 
cases. The instructions to Lord Lome in 1878 set forth that the Governor- 
General should not pardon or reprieve in capital cases without first seeking 
the advice of the Dominion ministry, and in non-capital the advice of 
one, at least, of his ministers, in all cases of Imperial interest. The 
Governor-General is at liberty to refer to his ministers in all cases of local 
concern. He must exercise his independent judgment in cases affecting 
other countries, after consultation with his ministers. 

Park, National (Rocky Mountain Park) at Banff. Area, 24 miles long and 9 
wide, containing over 100,000 acres. Within its area are 15 miles of the Bow 
River, 6 miles of the Spray River, the Spray Falls, the Devil's Lake (12 
miles long and 2 broad), the Vermilion Lakes, the Sulphur Hot Springs, 
etc. In a few years, when it has been opened up by roads and pathways, 
there will be few, if any, more delightful holiday resorts in the world than 
the National Park of the Dominion of Canada. First set apart for the 
purpose by Act of Parliament, 1887, under the administration of Hon. 
Thomas White, Minister of the Interior. Besides Banff Park, the Domin- 
ion Government has reserved four other tracts of land for parks — one at 
Mount Stephen, including the country surrounding the base of the moun- 
tain and adjacent picturesque parts ; the second near Mount Donald ; a 
third in the Eagle Pass, and a fourth at the summit of the Selkirks. The 
Province of Ontario set aside 1,600,000 acres to form the Algonquin Park, 
in 1893. The Province of Quebec, in 1894, set aside 2,531 square miles 
in the Counties of Montmorency, Quebec and Charlevoix, to form the 
Laurentides Park, and in 1896 the Province provided another Provincial 
park at Trembling Mountain, near Montreal. 

Parliament — First in Lower Canada assembled 17th December, 1792 ; first in 
Upper Canada, 17th September, 1792 ; first in Nova Scotia, 1758. 

Parltament— The first Parliament of the United Provinces of Canada met at 
Kingston, June 1841, and was opened by Lord Sydenham. 

Parliament — The first meeting in the new building at Ottawa was on Tune 
8th, 1866. 

Parliament — ^The first Dominion Parliament, with representatives firom the 
four original Provinces, assembled at Ottawa, 6th November, 1867. 

Parliamentary Annals, began in 1758, when the first Provincial Legislature, 
within the limits of the' present Dominion, was opened in a schoolhouse at 
Halifax, by Governor Lawrence. The next Legislature to meet was that 
of Prince Edward Island, in 1773. New Bmnswick having been separated 



136 First Things in Canada. 

from Nova Scotia in 17S4, obtained a Legislature of her own. Upper and 
Lower Canada were separated in 1791, and were reunited under one Leg- 
islature in 1 841. British Columbia's legislative history dates from 1859, 
as divided into the Island Province and the Mainland Province, and from 
1866 as a United Province. Manitoba began to have a distinct legislative 
history in 1870. The North- West Territories were partially relieved from 
pupilage, and obtained an Elective Assembly in 1888, and in 1897 the 
Dominion Government provided for the complete adoption of Respon- 
sible Government. The Provinces blossomed out into a Federal Parlia- 
ment, with Local Legislatures, in 1867, when Ontario and Quebec were 
given separate Legislatures. (See Responsible Government.) 

(NoTB. — The Constitutional Act of 1791, relating to Quebec, was passed by the Tm- 
pertal Parliament early in that year. One of its provisions was that it should only go 
into effect on the Governor's proclamation. That was issued on x8th November, 1791, 
but it provided that the 4ct should not go into operation until the 26tb December. The 
first Legislature under the Act in Upper Canada (Ontario) was held in the Town of 
Newark (now Niagara).^ The members, 7 of whom were Legislative Councillors and 16 
members of the Legislative Assembly, were required to meet on the xyth September, 
1702. Only two of the councillors and five of the assemblymen attended. What was 
still more embarrassing, no more could be collected. 'The House nevertheless was 
opened, and a guard of honour consisting of 50 soldiers from the fort was in attendance. 
Governor Simcoe (who was sworn in first Governor of Upper Canada on 8th Tuly, 1792,) 
dressed in silk, entered the hall with his hat on his head attended by his adjutant and 
two secretaries. Two members of the Council gave notice of his presence in the Upper 
House to the Legislative Assembly, and the five members of the latter having appeared 
at the bar of the two Lords, the Secretary read the Governor's speech . The population 
of Upper Canada was then about 3o,coo ) 

Patents granted to foreigners throughout the Dominion, without condition of 
residence, 1872. The patentees who have taken advantage of this 
permission during the past five years number 11,808, and were German, 
English, French and United States* citizens. The outside element formed 
78 per cent, of the total number of patentees. 

Patents — The first patent granted to the Province of Canada was to Noah 
Gushing, of the City of Quebec, for a washing and fulling machine. The 
patent is dated 8th June, 1824, in which year the patent office was estab- 
lished. There were only three patents granted that year. There was but 
one in 1825. There were three in 1826. 1827 and 1828 showed a dearth 
of inventive genius. In 1829 two patents were registered. The 40th 
patent was issued in 1835 to Gustavus William Wicksteed, for " a new 
method of constructing suspension bridges of wood or metal. " Mr. Wicksteed 
is still living, having a few years since retired from the position of law 
clerk of the House of Commons. The growth of the business of the 
office is evidenced by the fact that during the period 1874- 1879 the receipts 
averaged $34,570 a year, and in 1896 were $104,112. 

Peace — The first proposals of peace, between New England and Canada, 
were made in a document, dated Quebec, October 20ih, 1705, in which 
Vaudreuil suggested that both sides should ** hinder all acts of hostility 
on the part of the Indians." 

Penitentiaries of Canada, placed under the direction of the Minister of 
Justice, 1875, at which date there were 808 convicts in the four peniten- 
tiaries. The number of convicts in the five penitentiaries of the Dominion 
on the 30th June, 1896, was 1,361. In 1896 in every group of 3,766 
inhabitants of the Dominion, there was one convict in the penitentiaries. 
In 1885 there was one convict for each group of 4,082, indicating that the 
convict population is increasing more rapidly than the general population. 



First Things in Canada. 157 

Peon, WilUatn — His first recorded attempt to trade with Canadians is a letter 
written by himself, and addressed to the ** Emperor of Canada," with 
date, ** London, 21st day of the fourth month called June, 1682." (At 
that time the legal year began in March. ) 
Pictou County (N.S.) — First settlers were six families from the border land 
of Pennsylvania and Maryland sent in 1767 by the Philadelphia Land 
Company, which had obtained a large grant of land from the Crown. The 
settlers sailed from Philadelphia, May, 1767. 
Pine — The first cargo of pine from Canada to England was transported by 
Kirk (1630). This was the beginning of an export trade which in 1^96 
amounted to $9,570,000, including all products of the forest. 
Pioneer and Historical Association of Ontario — Organized in 1887. Its 
objects are the promotion of intercourse and union of all such societies for 
the better preservation of historical and other records and memorials of 
the Province ; the formation of new societies and the extension of the 
spirit of historical research. 
Pioug^hing^ — The first record of ploughing in Canada dates back to 1628, when 
Couillard, employing oxen, ploughed his land. Champlain says : ** The 
plough was first introduced and used 27th April, 1628." Couillard married ^J 
Hebert's (see "Farmer") second daughter. He lived with his father-in- / 
law, the first farmer in Canada, and after the death of Hebert worked the 
farm, at that time the only bit of planted ground in New France. 
Place-Names — The early place-names given to Canada were Vineland, Bush 
land and Stoneland. Then followed such place-names as New England, 
New France, New Scotland, New Netherlands, Newfoundland, etc. — a 
wholesale transference of European names to this continent, with the 
necessary modification to suit the circumstances and yet retain the connec-i 
tion. Subsequently, further sub-division of the country was made, and 
there were the Island of St. John, Isle Koyale, Acadia, Quebec, Prince 
Rupert's Land, etc. Then came the refolution, which split off the New 
England and other colonies. New Brunswick, New Caledonia, Cape 
Breton, Prince Edward Island, British Columbia were new names of that 
period. Then came the period of Confederation, when the new place- 
names of Ontario, Manitoba, Keewatin, Alberta, Assiniboia, Athabasca, 
Saskatchewan, Ungava, Franklin, Mackenzie and Yukon were added to 
the older ones. Portuguese, Spaniards, Bretons, French and English, 
besides the aborigines, have contributed to our stock of place-names. 
Missionaries and navigators, saints and sinners, lordly rulers and humble 
porters, politicians and civil servants, sovereigns and speculators", surveyors 
and railway presidents have all scattered with profuse hand place-names 
along our extended littoral — Atlantic, Arctic and Pacific — on mountain 
ranges, on lakes and rivers, cities, towns, villages, etc*. The name-fathers 
of Canada are numerous and form an interesting group, whose biography 
would reveal the parentage of many of the characteristics of the Canadian 
people. To show this, one has but to mention as' prominent name-fathers 
of Canada, Cabot, Hudson, Cartier, Kirk, Champlain, Roberval, Sir 
Francis Drake, Sir Humphrey Gilbert, Cooke, Vancouver, the Arctic 
explorers, the R^coUets, the Jesuits, La Salle, Marquette, Jolliet, Mc- 
Kenzie, Thompson, Simcoe, Guy Carleton, Thomas Carleton, etc. 
Poet — Whether or not our Canadian ** nest of singing birds " — to use sturdy 
Samuel Johnson's phrase— recognize him as such, the first poet on 
record in Canada is L'Escarbot, 1606. Poutrincourt's return to Port 
Royal was celebrated with general festivity. ** He was received," says 



i 



15$ First Things in Canada. 

llaliburton, *' with great formality by his friends, who united in a proces- 
sion and escorted him to the fort (i'ort Royal), reciting verses composed 
by L'Escarbot for the occasion." Sir William Alexander (of whom and 
of his royal patron, James I., it was said that "James was a king who 
aimed to be a poet ; Alexander was a poet who aimed to be a king"), pos- 
ses^d the poetic afflatus ; but whatever " Viscount Sterling, Lord of Can- 
nada," had of poetical talents, they were not exercised on the banks of 
Canadian streams, nor under the umbrageous shade of Canadian forests, 
and, therefore, however intimate his relations with Canada were at one 
time, we cannot, in fairness, deprive Scotland of the fame of having Sir 
William all her own poet. 

John Lesperance, in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Canada for 
1884, presents a brief study of the poets of Canada. The first regular and 
consecutive poem dates as far back as 1732, when Jean Tach^ published 
Tableau de la mer. In 1830 Michel Bit)aud published a volume of mii- 
cellaneous poems. " He may be termed the lather of French Canadian 
verse." Gameau in 1835 published the first of his poetic compositions, 
which " are of a high order of merit." Cr^mazie, ** the greatest of French 
Canadian poets," published poetry between the years 1852 and 1862. 
**Next in merit and haud longo intervallo is Frechette.** Le May, 
Benjamin Suite, William Chapman, Abbe Gingras, Felix Marchand and 
others are mentioned by Lesperance with deserved praise. Mr. Suite has 
counted no less than 175 names of minor poets among French Canadians. 
Among English Canadians, reference is made to Joseph Howe, Charles 
Heavysege, Charles Mair, J. J. Procter, John Reade, Charles Roberts, 
Evan McColl, S. J. Watson. Others are Alexander Muh:, Carman, Camp- 
bell, Lampman, the two Scotts, Sangster, Mrs. Lawson, N. F. Davin, 
Isabella Crawford, John Lesperance, Theodore Rand, etc., etc. 

Police Force — First organized in Nova Scotia was in Annapolis, 1734. 

Political Economy Chair — First established in Toronto University, 1888. 

Polariscope — First used by Department of CustoAs for testing sugars, 12th 
April, 1886. 

Post— First Post established, 1721, between Montreal and Quebec. First 
mail route between Halifax and Quebec City opened in 1784, under Gov- 
ernor-in -Chief Haldimand. First mail service to Upper Canada began 
1789, in which year Post Offices were established at Kingston, Niagara 
and Detroit. 

Postal Resfolations and Rates throughout the Dominion initiated, ist 
April, 1868. 

Postag^e rates on letters throughout the Dominion reduced from five cents to 
three, and postage rate between Canada and the United States reduced 
from ten cents to six cents, 1st April, 1868. 

Postage from Canada to the United States reduced to three cents, and from 
United States to Canada to two cents, ist Feb., 1875. 

Post OfiBce— Management of, transferred to the Provincial authorities by the 
Imperial Government, 6th April, 185 1. Previous to that date, by a des- 
patch dated 27th Aug., 1842, the whole of the first appointments in the 
Post Office Department for the Province of Canada (including Post- 
masters) were transferred to the Governor-General, excepting the situa- 
tions of Deputy Postmaster-General, Accountants, Surveyors and their 
clerks. Promotions were also made by the Deputy Postmaster-General, 
and approved by the Postmaster-General in England. The number of 
Post Offices at the date of transfer in the Province of Canada was 6oi' 



First Things in Canada. 139 

The miles of established Post Office route were 7,595, the number of miles 
of annual jDail travel was 2,487,000, and the number of letters passing by 
post was 2,132,000 in the year. 
Post Office— The first Post Office established in the North- West Territories 
was at Battleford, July 1st, 1876. On 31SI December, 1896, there were 
302 Post Offices in the North-West Territories. 
Post Office— Franking privilege (see Franking) ; Money Order system (see 

Money Orders) ; Registration of Letters (see Registration). 
Post Office — Money orders may now be procured in Canada for remittances 
to 73 foreign countries and British possessions, while in 1883 the only 
countries upon which orders could be obtained were four. The money 
order offices on 30th June, 1896, numbered 1,310, through which I, 131,152 
orders issued, of the value of $13,081,860. Of this amount $10,726,661 
is payable in Canada, and $2,355,200 payable in other countries. In 
1868 the total number of P.O. money orders issued was 90, 163, of the 
value of $3,352,881, of which payable in Canada was $2,859,762. The 
amount payable in Canada has increased 3^ times ; that in other countries 
6 times. 
Post Office Statistics :— 
Letters and Post Cards sent by mail during period of 1874-78 averaged 
45,000,000 a year. During period 1879-89 the yearly average was 
77,000,000, an increase of 77 per cent. The number sent in 1895 was 
131,000,000, and in 1896 it was 149,000,000. 
Post Offices established— Yearly average 1874-78 period, 172; 1879-89 

period, 223; 1890-95 period, 166 ; total number in 1896, 9,103. 
Money Orders issued— Yearly average, 1874-78 period, $6,686,000; 1879- 
89 period, $9,342,000; 1890-95, $12,756,340; total amount in 1896, 
$13,081,861. 
Money Orders issued and payable in Canada — Yearly average, 1874-78, 
$6,191,696; 1879-89, $7,600,000; 1890-95, $10,175,400; total amount 
in 1896, $10,726,661. 
Money Orders issued in (Canada and payable in other countries — Yearly 
average, 1874-78, $676,600; 1879-89, $1,873,400; 1890-95, $2,600,000; 
1896, $2,355,200* 
Money Orders issued in other countries and payable in Canada — Yearly 
average, $1874-78, $335. 174; 1879-89, $1, 752 »500 ; 1890-95, $2,077,200 ; 
total in 1896, $2,124,553. 
Postal Revenue, 1879, $1,534,363, expenditure, $2,167,266; 1889, 
revenue, $2,984,223, expenditure, $3,746,040 ; 1895, revenue, $3,815,456, 
expenditure, $4,616,313 ; 1896, revenue, $4,004,2185, expenditure, $4,- 
705,282. 
Postag:e Rates first made uniform three cents, April i, 1868. 
Postas^e Stamps first issued in Canada, 1851. First used in England in 

1840, in Brazil in 1843, and in the United States in 1847. 
Postal Cards first introduced in Canada, 1871. 

Postal Union — Canada was admitted as a member of the Postal Union, ist 
July, 1878. Prior to 1874, each nation followed its own devices so far as 
postal arrangements were concerned. There was no attempt at uniformity 
of postal rules and regulations and all international relations were com- 
plicated in the highest degree. Herr Von Stephan, of Berlin, conceived 
the idea of introducing order into this postal chaos and communicated his 
views to a number of the leading postal administrations of the world, with 
the result that a postal conference was summoned to meet at Berne in 



140 First Things in Canada. 

1874, and the first postal treaty was signed there on Oct. 9th, 1874, 
Great Britain, the several countries of continental Europe, Egypt and the 
United States being signatories. The treaty came into operation, ist 
Julv, 1875. Subsequent congresses have been held in Paris, 1878 ; Lisbon, 
1885 ; Vienna, 1891 ; Washington, 1897. Sir Charles Tupper represented 
Canada at the Vienna Congress. The whole world may now be described 
as one postal territory, a five cent stamp sufficing to carry a letter any- 
where outside of China. 

On the 1st July, 1875, the Union included about 14,300,000 square 
miles and 350 million people. Now it includes 39,372,000 square miles 
and 1,035,000,000 people. 

In the Washington Congress of 1897, the results of the work done were : 
(i) Admission of Corea ; (2) The conditions on which the countries of the 
union will pay reciprocally the intermediary transit rates have been facili- 
tated, and tariff diminished quite materially on a graduated scale, for the 
ensuing six years ; (3) Uniform colors have been projected for postage 
stamps ; (4) Postal cards unpaid are subject to a double tax, that is, 4 
cents in the place of the former tax, which was ten cents, the same as for 
unpaid letters ; (5) Circulars produced on a machine (typewritten) in quan- 
tities of twenty circulars all of the same character are admitted to the 
international mails at the same rates as printed circulars ; (6) Samples of 
merchandise are admitted up to 350 grammes ; (7) Objects of natural 
history, animals, dried plants or preserved geolc^cal specimens are ad- 
mitted as samples ; (8) The question of a creation of a universal postage 
stamp was brought up, and the proposition defeated on account of the diffi- 
culties which would occur in putting into practice that important innovation, 
especially because of the diversity of currency standards ; (9) Special ar- 
rangements concerning packages of declared value, postal orders, books of 
identity, and subscriptions to journals have been thoroughly revised. The 
new treaty will become operative Jan. i, 1899. 
Preferential TariflF— Formerly the products of Canada were admitted into 
Great Britain under a differential duty against the foreign article. 
The manufactures of Great Britain were admitted into the markets of 
Canada under similar duties in favour of the British manufacturer. In 
1843 discriminating customs duties were abolished in the British North 
American Provinces by Lord Stanley's despatch. In 1845 the Govern- 
ment of Great Britain changed its colonial commercial policy. In 1846 the 
several provinces obtained power to enact their own tariffs (subject only to 
the control of the Queen-in-Council) under the British Possessions Act, 
1846. Attempts at discriminating in favour of Great Britain by Canada 
were disapproved of by the British Government for many years after 1846. 

In connection with the treaty made with France, the Government of 
Canada extended the provisions of that treaty to the following countries, 
on 4th October, 1895 ' Argentine Republic, Austria- Hungary, Belgium, 
Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Germany, Muscat, Russia, Sweden and 
Norway. At a subsequent date the provisions of the treaty were extended 
to Spain. 

Under the enlarged powers granted to the Dominion by the Union Act 
of 1867, the Laurier Government offered a preferential tariff to the Mother 
Country in the Session of 1897, and the offer was accepted, coupled with 
the condition that the reciprocal schedule in the Canadian tariff must apply 
to the goods of all countries coming under the favoured nation clause, till 
1st August, 1898. 



KiRST Things in Canada. 141 

In addition to this extension, there is the extension under the terms of 
the Tariff Act of Canada, 1897, Section 17 and Schedule D, according to 
which any country, whose customs tariff admits the products of Canada on 
terms on the whole as favourable to Canada as the terms of the reciprocal 
tariff in Schedule D are to those countries, is entitled to enter its 
goods into Canada at rates of duty less by one-eighth till June 30th, 
1898, and less by one-quarter after June 30th, 189S, than the specified 
tariff rates. 

The countries to which the preferential treatment has been extended 
until the ist August, 1898, according to circular of the Customs Depart- 
ment, 4th Sept., 1897, are: Great Britain and Ireland, Belgium, Ger- 
many, France, Algeria and French Colonies, Argentine, Austria- Hungary, 
Bolivia, Colombia, Denmark, Persia, Russia, Sweden, Tunis, Venezuela 
and Switzerland. New South Wales was admitted 22nd May. 
Presbyterian. (See Church Annals, Presbyterian.) 

Presl^rterian — First Presbyterian church in Toronto opened February, 1822. 
Prime Minister — The first Prime Minister of the Dominion of Canada was 
Sir John Macdonald, 1st July, 1867, to 6th November, 1873. Other 
prime ministers are : — 

Hon. Alexander Mackenzie, 7th Nov., 1873 to 17th Oct., 1878 
Rt. -Hon. Sir John Macdonald, 17th Oct., 1878 to 6th June, 1891 
Hon. Sir John Abbott, i6th June, 1891 to 24th Nov., 1892 

Rt.-Hon. Sir John Thompson, 5th Dec, 1892 to 12th Dec, 1894 
Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell, 24th Dec, 1894 to 27th April, 1896 
Hon. Sir Charles Tupper, Bart., 27th April, 1896 to 8th July, 1896 
Rt.-Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier, 9th July, 1896 to 
Prime Minister— The first French Canadian Prime Minister of the Dominion 

was Hon. W. Laurier, July, 1896. 
Prince Edward Island (Isle of St. John) was first laid out into counties, 
parishes and townships by the Lords of Trade and Plantations in 1767. 
The counties were named King's, Queen's and Prince. In Prince there 
were five parishes, and the townships were numbered from i to 19, and 
25 to 28 which, with Princetown (4,000 acres) made a total of 467,000 
acres. Queen's had five parishes, the townships numbering from 20 to 
24, 29 to 37, 48 to 50, 57, 58, 60, 62, 65, 67, with Charlottetown (7,300), 
making a total of 486,900 acres. King's had four parishes, the townships 
numbering 38 to 47, 51 to $6, 59, 61, 63, 64, 66, with Georgetown (4,000 
acres) making a total of 412,000 acres. The stated acreage of 1767 is 
more by 8,500 than that given by more recent surveys. Princetown is 
frequently called Malpeque (probably the original French name). In 
every respect the census of 1891 followed the sub-divisions made 124 years 
before that date. 

The first petition for a separate government for the island of St. John 
was referred by Order-in-Council to the Lords of Trade for consideration, 
June 28th, 1768. The Lords of Trade reported to Committee of Council 
m favour of erecting the island into a separate government. May 30th, 
1769. The first commission was issued to Walter Paterson as first gover- 
nor, and is dated 4th August, 1769. In the year following he took pos- 
session, being sworn in Sept. 19th, 1770. The Province was ruled by a 
combined executive and legislative council till 1773, when a House of 
Assembly was added to the paraphernalia of government. In 1799 ^in 
Act was passed by the Legislature, and confirmed by the sovereign, diang- 
ing. the name of the island to Prince Edward Island, the reason given 



14a First Things in Canada. 

being that ^reat inconvenience was experienced from the name of the ' 
Province being the same as several other pUces at no great distance, to 
which letters were frequently sent by mistake. The proclanuition chang- 
ing the name was published, June 13th, 1799. Prince £dward Island 
is rightly called the ** Garden Province " of Canada. 
Prince Kdward ItUmd was admitted into the Canadian Union, ist July, 

1873- 

Printed Book — The first printed book in Canada was the Catechism du diocese 
de Sens, published in Quebec, 1765, printed by Messrs. Brown & Gilmoor. 
A copy was exhibited by Mr. Justice fiab^ at the Caxton celebration, 
26th-29th June, 1877. The second book printed in Canada was also issued 
by Messrs. Brown k Gilmour, being an account of the trial of Major 
Disney for felony, 1767. 

Printing — ** Letter of an inhabitant of Louisbourg, containing a hbtory, exact 
and detailed, of the taking of Great Britain by the English ;** purports on 
its title page to be ** printed at Quebec, and published by Guillaume Le Sin- 
cere, at the Sign of Truth, 1745." But as there were no printing presses in 
Quebec at that date, it must have been printed in some other place outside 
of the bounds of the present Canada. " Truth " remained outside of Wil- 

V.'^ liam the Sincere's printing establishment ; it certainly was not inside* 
' Printing^ Press — The first was set up by Bartholomew Green, Jr., in Halifax, 
August, 1 75 1. He died in about six weeks after his arrival from Boston. 
\ John Bushell took charge on Green's death, and in 1752 issued the Halifax 
Gazette (see newspapers.) Anthony Henry succeeded Bushell. Isaac 
Ourry established a printing office in Halifax in 1756. In 1760 Robert 
Fletcher arrived at Halifax from London, opened a book store and a 
printing house, published a paper and did the Government printing. John 
Howe began printing in 1776. The first printing press set up in Quebec 
was in 1764. 

In 1776 Benjamin Franklin was authorized by the Congress of the 
United States to ofier to Canadians, among other inducements, a free press, 
if they would side with the seceding colonies. He brought Mesplet with 
him, reaching Montreal 29th April, 1776, and by his aid had several 
lengthy addresses printed for circulation among Canadians. When Dr. 
Franklin left Montreal, on 30th May, 1776, Mesplet seems to have con- 
cluded to cast in his lot with the not-to-be seduced Canadians, and printed, 
in 1776, his first book, Le Cantiquede Marseilles, the first printed book of 
sacred song in Montreal. Mesplet also printed in the same year, *' Regie- 
ment de la confrerih de V adoration perpetuelU du Saint Sacrament et de la 
bonne mort" and ** Jonathan et David, ou le triomphe de rAmitie"s^ 
tragedy in three acts, presented by the students of Montreal. He started 
La Gazette Litteraire, 1778. In 1785 he took charge of the Montreal 
Gazette (originally published in 1778 by James Brown) ; afterwards got 
mixed up in treasonable proceedings, and went to prison for punishment. 
One of the two Carrols, who accompanied Franklin, became the first R. 
C. Archbishop of the United States. 

The first printing press set up in Prince Edward Island was by Mr. 
Robertson, in 1788. 

* Probably the name and sign were used in imitation of a custom of secret imprints 
which sprang up in London (Eng.) in the latter part of the 17th century. Thus : " Articles of 
High Treason made and enacted by the late Half-Quarter usurping Convention and now pre- 
sented to the public view for a general satisfaction of all true Englishmen. Imprinted for 
Erasmus Thorogood and to be s<Md at the sign of the ' Roasted Rump ' ; 1659." 



First Things in Canada. 143 

The first in Ontario (Upper Canada) was established by Louis Roy, on 
1 8th April, 1793, at Newark (Niagara), and from it was issued the Upper 
Canada Gautte or American Oracle, 

Printinfip — Dominion Bureau of Public Printing established, 1888. 

Privy Councillor — ^First Canadian appointed a member of the Imperial Privy 
Council, Sir John Macdonald, 1879. Sir John Rose was appointed a 
member in 1886, Sir John Thompson in 1894, and Sir S. H. Strong, Chief 
Justice of Canada, in 1897. In connection with the Jubilee demonstration, 
1897, Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier, Premier of Canada, was appointed a Privy 
Councillor, and so were all the Premiers of the self-governing colonies. 

Privy Cotmcil of Canada — Elxpression first employed in Section 11 of the 
Union Act of 1867. 

Proclamation dividing the Province of Quebec into Upper and Lower Canada 
was issued by Lieut. -Governor Clarke, in the absence of Lord Dorchester, 
fixing the 26th Dec, 1791, as the date for the division. Proclamation 
dividing Upper Canada into districts was issued at Kingston, i6th July, 
1792, by Lieut. -Governor Simcoe. The proclamation dividing Lower 
Canada into districts was issued 7th May, 1792, by Lieut. -Governor 
Clarke. 

Prohibition of Liquor Traffic — An ordinance of the Intendant, passed July 
24th, I733» at Louisbourg, prohibited tavern-keepers selling liquors to 
fishermen. A grant from Louis XIV., dated 29th May, 1680, of the lands • 
called Le Sault, near the St. Louis rapids, " most expressly forbids the * 
French, who may live with or go among the Indians settled there, keeping 
any public house among the dwellings of the Indians." 

Protestant Worship began in Canada the same time the Roman Catholic 
form was instituted (1604), the settlers with De Monts being in part 
Huguenots and in part Roman Catholics . 

Provincial Debts. (See Re-adjustment of.) 

Pulp — The wood pulp mills of Canada, by the census of 1891, numbered 24, 
with a capital of about $3,000,000, employing over 1,000 hands, paying 
$292,000 a year in wajges, and having over one million dollars of an out- 
put. Since then the increase has been great. There are now over 30 
pulp mills with a yearly output of 150,000 tons, about one-third being 
sulphite and chemical pulps, and two-thirds mechanical pulf>s. One of 
the largest establishments estimates that the labor employed in the manu- 
facture of wood pulp from the stump to the car amounts to about six 
men to each ton of pulp. There were but five pulp mills in Canada in 
1 87 1, and these employed only 68 hands. 

The export of pulp wood from Canada, almost wholly to the United 
States, in 1891, amounted to $168,180; in 1893, $455,893, and in 1896, 
$675,778. The exports of wood pulp in 1890 were $80,005 » i^ ^^93, 
$386,092, and in 1896, $675,778. Of the amount in 1896, over 82 per 
cent, was exported to the United States. 

Public Accounts first published in Canada in 1793. 

Public Accounts first kept in dollars and cents, 1858. 

Public Meeting^ — The first on record is one called by Cham plain in Quebec, 
August i8th, 1621, to consider a petition to the King respecting the affairs 
of Canada. 

Quarantine — ^When Asiatic Cholera made its appearance in England in Oct. , 
1831, it was deemed advisable to establish a quarantine station in the St. 
Lawrence River. Grosse Isle, an island about 33 miles below Quebec City, 



144 First Things in Canada. 

was selected, and the buildings requisite for the purposes of quarantine 
were constructed in the spring of 1832. An appropriation to pay for the 
island waj provided in 1836. The appliances connected with the station 
are deemed to l)e of the first order and of the most modern character . 
(See "Sanitation.") 

Quebec — Was first styled New France. It was called Canada also : the 
official title, however, being New France. In 1663 it was called oflScially 
Quebec, in the Royal proclamation of 1663. In 1760 it was called Canada, 
and the term Upper Canada was then first used by General Murray to 
designate the Montreal District. In 1774 it was styled Quebec in the 
Imperial Act of that year, extending I he boundaries. It was divided into 
Upper and Lower Canada in 1791. In 1841, on reunion, the two were 
styled the Province of Canada, and East and West were terms used. In 
1867 the two were separated and styled Quebec and Ontario. 

Quebec— First settlement of, in 1608. 

Quebec — First capture of, b^ the English, was made by Kirk ; Champlain sur- 
rendering the fort, 9th August, 1629. 

Quebec — The coast line of the Province is stated by Hon. Mr. Mercier to be 
2,590 miles in length. 

Quebec — The Algonquin name for a narrow passage between two bodies 
of water. Thus the " narrows " between the outer and the inner harbours 
of Chebucto Bay (Halifax) are called by the Micmacs ** Kebbec." 

Quebec — Landslide from the citadel took place 17th May, i84i,and destroyed 
8 buildings and 32 persons. A second occurred 19th September, 1889. 
Many thousand tons of rock fell, crushing eight houses and destroying 
several human lives. 

Quebec Conference, for formation of the Canadian Confederacy, met in 
Quebec, October, 1864, and passed 72 resolutions, which formed the basis 
of the Union. These resolutions, having received the approval of the 
Imperial Government, were submitted to the Local Legislatures and sanc- 
tioned by the Legislature of the Province of Canada i6th March, 1865 ; by 
those of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia in 1866. The Imperial Bill, 
designated the British North America Act, 1867 — the Magna Charta of the 
Dominion — received the Royal sanction 29th March, 1867, and was pro- 
claimed throughout the Dominion on ist July, 1867. 

Queen Victoria Park — (See International Park.) 

Queen's Birthday— Down to 1845 the Sovereign's birthday was a voluntary 
and not a legal holiday in the Province of Canada, the proclamation being 
made by the municipal authorities. In the parliamentary session of 1845 
the Legislature, by Act, made the Queen's Birthday a legal holiday. 

Queen's CoUeg^e, Kingston, opened March 10th, 1842, with two professors 
and eleven students. The first meeting to raise a fund (to celebrate which 
Queen's held her jubilee in December, 1889) was held in Kingston, 
December i8th, 1839. Queen's claims to be the oldest University in 
Ontario. ** She first extended her motherly arms to embrace the ladies 
among her students. She first recognized a woman's medical college. 
She first enrolled a fair girl graduate. " 

Queen's Printer — The first Queen's, or rather King's, Printer in Canada was 
John Bushell, of Halifax, N.S. The proclamation issued by Governor 
Lawrence in 1758 for the settlement of the French lands was printed by 
John Bushell, who published the Halifax Gazette from May 23rd, 1752. 



First Things in Canada. 

Railway Aonals — The agitation for Railways in British North America began 
almost as soon a3 the success of George Stephenson's railway was assured. 
One of the earliest efforts was made in St. Andrews, N.B,, in 1827, two 
years after George Stephenson had completed the first railway in England. 
In 1828 John Wilson convened a public meeting in St. Andrews, N.B., 
to discuss the question of a railway to Quebec. In 1832 Mr. Henry Fair- 
bairn, writing in the United Service Journal, turned the attention of the 
British public to the necessity of a railway system for British North 
America. He said : '* I propose first to form a railway for ws^gons from 
Quebec to the Harbour of St. Andrews, upon the Bay of Pundy — a route 
which will convey the trade of the St. Lawrence in a single day to the 
Atlantic waters." In consequence of his efforts an association was formed 
by the inhabitants of St. Andrews ; explorations were made and reports 
submitted. In December, 1835, a deputation went to Quebec to bring the 
question to the notice of the Government of the sister province. Resolu- j 

tions favourable to the undertaking were adopted in the same month by 
both Houses of the Lower Canadian Legislature. The Committees of Trade , 

in Quebec and Montreal appointed special committees to act in concert } 

with the delegation. In January, 1836, a delegation went to England, \ 

carrying with them a petition to the King. The Nova Scotian Legislature ; 

passed a resolution similar to that passed by the Lower Canadian Legisia- \ 

ture, and the Legislature of New Brunswick passed an Act incorporating { 

the St. Andrews & Quebec Railway Company. The Imperial Government i 

made a grant of £ 10,000, to be expended in the exploration and survey of 
the proposed line of railway from Quebec to St. Andrews. This surv^ 
was placed under the control of Capt. Yule, an officer of the Royal Engi- 
neers, and work was begun on the 23rd July, 1836. At that time the 
country through which Capt. Yule prosecuted the surveys was held to be 
wholly British territory. In 1837 the United States Government made 
objections to the route proposed on the ground that they claimed part of 
the territory. Notification of the fact was given to the Governor-General 
of Canada and to the Lieut. -Governor of New Brunswick, and orders were 
given by the British authorities to stop work until the boundary line was 
settled. 

In 1832 a charter was obtained from the Lower Canadian Legislature 
for a railway from Laprairie, on the St. Lawrence River, to St. John's, on 
the Richelieu. It was called the Champlain & St. Lawrence Railway, and 
has the distinction of being the first passenger railway built in Canada. It 
was opened on July 23rd, 1836, by Earl Gosford, the same day Capt. Yule 
began his survey of the Quebec & St. Andrews Railway. The first 
train consisted of four cars, drawn by horses, locomotive power being 
adopted in the following year. The length of the line was 16 miles, and the 
gauge 5 feet .6 inches. The first railway return presented to any Legisla- 
ture of British North America was presented by this Company. The ex- 
penditure was 777 percent, of the total receipts in 1844. Fifty years 
after, in 1894, the expenditure of all the railways of Canada was 71 per 
cent, of the receipts. Thus the proportion of receipts needed to meet 
working and other expenses has been considerably reduced in the half 
century. 

In 1834 two railways were incorporated in Upper Canada : the Cobourg 
and the London Gore — being the first for the Upper Canadian Province. 

In Nova Scotia the first railway built was in 1839 (six miles in length) / 



146 First Things in Canada. 

.' to connect the Albion Coal Mines with the loading grounds on the shores 

of the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Locomotives were used. 
/ In 1850 there were in what is now called the Dominion of Canada 66 

miles of railway, the results of 15 years of effort. 

The year 1851 is a year to be remembered in the railway annals of the 
j Domiuion ; (i) In that year an Act was passed by the Canadian Legisla- 

; ture, making provision for construction of a main trunk line through the 

two Canadas. (2) The Canadian Railway Committee had under consider- 
/ ation a Bill, providing for the construction of a railway through British 

/ territory in North America to the Pacific Ocean. (3) The battle royal o( 

/ the gauges was fought before the Canadian Railway Committee. (4) Dele-' 

.' gates from the British North American provinces went to England to 

I arrange lor the construction of the Intercolonial Railway. Thus in 1851 

I began the movement which has resulted in the Dominion possessing (a) a 

1 general system of railways, numbering 136 ; (b) the Grand Trunk Railway 

\ system (see Grand Trunk Railway,) by the amalgamation of 25 of these, 

: with a mileage of 3,162 miles of line (rails laid) ; (c) the Canadian Govern- 

ment Railway system with 1,372 miles ; (d) the Canadian Pacific Railwaf: 
', system, in which are consolidated 22 railways, with 6,217 miles ; (e) 76 

other separate railway organizations, formed by consolidations of 89 rail- 
ways, and having a mileage of 5,586 ; making, with five electric railways 
(56 miles), a total of 16,387 miles. 
Railways, Aid to — The first measure carried through the Canadian Legisla- 
ture for affording governmental aid to railway enterprise was proposed by 
Francis Hincks, 1849. 
Railways, Aid g'lYen to in Canada, consists : (i) Of money grants : (a) by 
the Federal Parliament ; (b) by the Provincial Legislatures ; (c) by the 
Municipalities. (2) Loans ; (3) Government guarantees of interest ; (4) 
Government issue of debentures by way of loan to railway companies ; (5) 
Government guarantee of railway bonds; (6) direct issue of Government 
bonds to railways, with a first mortgage on the companies' properties ; (7) 
Imperial Government guarantee of capital ; (8) share capital locally dis^ 
tributed ; (9) land grants , (10) release of Government loans by placing' 
them behind other loans; (11) composition of Government claims; (12) 
assumption by Government of liabilities ; (13) direct construction by Gov- 
ernment ; (14) combined land and money grants. : 
In 1896 the total capital invested in Canadian railways was $899,8i7,9CX),! 
divided thus : Ordinary share capital, 28.43 P*^"^ cent ; bonded debt, 37.36j 
per cent ; Dominion Government aid, 16.61 per cent ; preference share 
capital, 11.70 per cent ; Provincial Government aid, 3.34 per cent ; Mun- 
icipal aid, 1.60 per cent ; other sources, 0.96 per cent. 
Railway Bridge— The first to suggest the possibility of a railway bridge 
across the St. Lawrence at Montreal was Hon. John Young, of Montreal. 
Railway Bridge — The first railway bridge across the St. Lawrence was the 
Victoria bridge, near Montreal, opened in 1859. The second was the 
Lachine bridge, above the rapids, opened 1886 ; the third was the Coteau 
bridge, opened 1890, and the fourth was the Cornwall bridge, opened 
1897. The latter is a Piatt truss over the south channel and a cantilever 
over the north channel. The Piatt truss has three spans of 370 feet each, 
37 feet above high water. The bridge over the north or main channel has 
a swing" bridge over the canal, is 60 feet above highest water, has a span 
of 420 feet across the channel and two cantilevers of 210 feet each. The 
swing bridge is 240 feet long. 



First Things in Canada. 147 

There are three bridges across the Niagara River ; the first, opened in 
1855, ^s ^ suspension bridge ; the second, a cantilever bridge, was opened 
in 1883, and the third, an arch bridge, was opened on Sept. 24th, 1897. 

The last has a span of 550 feet between the end piers, and a trussed 
span at each end, 150 feet long, connects the arch with the bluff. With 
its approaches the total length of the bridge is 1,100 feet. The centre of 
the arch is 226 feet above the water. Seven million pounds of steel were 
used in the building of the arch. (See ** Railways, ** Victoria Bridge," 
" Coteau Bridge," " Suspension Bridge " and " Cantilever Bridge.") 

Railway Mail Clerk— First was P. Purdon, who for 42 years (1854-96) has 
been in charge of the mail car between Niagara and London. During that 
time he has run about two million miles. He is the pioneer railway mail 
clerk of this Continent. The plan of sorting letters on the running train 
was first adopted by the Great Western Railway of Canada, in 1854. 
Railway mail service was first introduced into Nova Scotia and New 
Brunswick, 1868; into Manitoba, 18S0, and into British Columbia in 1884. 

Railway Commission — Royal Commission on Canadian railways first ap- 
pointed, 14th August, 1886. The Commission was composed of Sir A. T. 
Gait (Chairman) ; C. Schreiber, G. Moberly, T. E. Kenny and E. R. 
Burpee. The Commission reported January, 1888, on the questions: (i) 
of the advisability of creating a commission with power to determine 
matters in dispute between railway corporations, and generally to regulate 
the system of railway management in its relations to the commerce of the 
country, and (2) as to the expediency of having a general railway law for 
construction of railways instead of special charters. The Commissioners 
reported (i) as to the first question, that the Railway Committee of the Privy 
Council would form the best possible railway tribunal for the Dominion if 
its powers were enlarged, and (2) as to the second question, that a general 
railway law would be more beneficial to the country than special charters. 
The Report is 8a Vol. 9, Sessional Papers of 1888. 

Railway Coxmnittee of the Privy Council, to regulate construction, crossing, 
running, etc., of railways, provided for by Acts of 1888, 1893 and 1894. 
It consists of the Minister of Railways (Chairman) ; the Minister of Justice 
and two or more other members of the Queen's Privy Council, with three 
for a quorum, and the Deputy Minister of Railways as Secretary. 

The following shows the work for the calendar year : — 

1895 1896 

Matters submitted 76 55 

Applications approved 57 41 

Dismissed or not approved 9 

Partly approved and partly not 4 

Postponed at request of parties 2 

Engineer to report, and parties to abide by 

his decision i 

Under consideration 3 2 

Hearing adjourned 4 

Partially heard i 

Case withdrawn 2 

Case reconsidered I 

Order varied i 



14S First Things in Canada. 

Railwaj Developmeiit— In the year of Confederation (1867) there were 
2,087 miles of railway in the Dominion. The following table gives the 
mileage t^ provinces for 1867 and 1896 : 



Ontario 

Quebec 

New Brunswick 

Nova Scotia 

Prince Edward Island 

Manitoba 

N. W. Territories 

British Columbia 



1867 


1896 


1,275 


6,568 


523 


3.159 


196 


1,420 


93 


916 




210 




1,474 




1,780 




860 



Total 2,087 16,387 

Railways incorporated by Provincial Governments were declared by crossing 
or uniting with railways under Dominion charter to be brought under 
Dominion control by the Railway Act of 1879. 

The provision in the Union Act, 1867, authorizing the Federal Govern- 
ment to declare railways, though wholly within a province, to be for the 
general benefit of Canada and thus made subject to the Legislative 
authority of the Federal Parliament, was first put into force by Act of 
Canadian Parliament in 1883. See Chap. 9, Vic. 42, and Chap. 24, 
Vic. 46. 

Railways, Earliest — One of the earliest railways in Canada was one built and 
in use in 1830, in Quebec, for the purpose of conve)dng stone from the 
wharves to the Cape for the construction of the Citadel. It was an in- 
clined railway, running up the sides of the cliffs, and was worked by a 
stationary engine at the foot of what is now the Allan line wharf. There 
were two cars running on a double track, one car going up ioaded and the 
other coming down empty. 

Railways, Electric— (See Electric Railways.) 

Railways, Land Grants — First grant of land in aid of railways in the North- 
West was made in 1880, in aid of the Canadian Pacific Railway. The 
quantity set aside for the C.P.R. was 25 million acres ; of this quantity 
6,793,014 acres were purchased from the Company by the Government 
in March* 1886. Exclusive of the grant to the CP.Ry., there have been 
32,257,200 acres of land alienated by the Crown for the purpose of subsi- 
dizing railways in Manitoba and the North- West. 

Railways — The original gauge adopted was 5 ft. 6 in. Commercial con- 
siderations brought about a change to the 4 ft. S}4 in. gauge. In all ther< 
are only 340 miles of railway in Canada having gauges other than 
4 ft. 8>^in. 

Railways, Horse — The first horse railway in Ontario was opened in 183S 
between Queenston and Chippewa, in lieu of the former portage. Th( 
charter was amended in 1852, and the line of railway (steam) was estab 
lished between Niagara, on Lake Ontario, and Niagara Falls. The sum 
$20,987 was issued in debentures by the Government for the horse raiU'aj 
prior to 1841. 

Railways — The first locomotive used in Upper Canada was on the Northen 
^ Railway, from Toronto to Brantford, opened June, Ig53. 

Railways — ^The first sod of the Northern Railway was turned in 1850 ; of th< 
Nova Scbtian system, 1854 ; of the Crow's Nest Pass Ry., July 14th, 1897 
of the Ottawa & New York Ry., Aug. 23rd, 1897. 



First Things in Canada. 149 

Railways — The first President ol any Canadian Railway was Hon. Peter 
McGill. 

Railways — Prince Eidward Island Railway was opened April, 1875. It 
belongs to the Dominion Government, is a narrow gauge, and is 210 miles 
in length. 

Railways— The Qu'Appelle, Long Lake & Saskatchewan Ry. and Steamboat 
Co. was the first railway in the North-West, exclusive of the C.P.R.,.to 
receive a money subsidy firom the Dominion Government, under Act 
passed in 1889, Chap. 5. 

Railway Rates Commission — Appointed by the Minister of Railwa3rs. 
Composed of P. S. Archibald (Chairman), Wm. Pearce and W. H. 
Allison, to take evidence in the matter of complaints of exorbitant and 
unreasonable passenger freight rates and of discrimination, in both the 
Province of Manitoba and the Norih-West Territories, held their first meet- 
ing in Winnipeg, 20th November, 1894, Sittings were held in eighteen 
places. Their report was presented in Parliament by Hon. Mr. Haggart 
on the loth May, 1895. It is No. 39, Vol. 11, Sessional Papers, 1895. 

Railway, Red River Valley — The Supreme Court of Canada, in answer to 
question submitted by the Dominion Government, gave unanimous opinion 
(confirming the policy of the Dominion Government since 1883) affirming 
the validity of the Manitoban Statute conferring authority on Provincial 
Railway Commissioner to construct a railway across the Canadian Pacific 
Railway, the Commissioner first to obtain the approval of the Canadian 
Government respecting mode and place of crossing before attempting to 
cross. Opinion given December, 1888. The long disputed crossings 
question was thus ended, and a ** diamond " was placed on the South West 
branch of the C.P.R., January 12th, 1889. 

Railway Returns -The first railway return presented to the Canadian Pro- 
vincial Legislature was by the Cbamplain & St. Lawrenpe Railway Co. for 
1844. The number of passengers carried during the year was 27,118, and 
the tons of freight, 12,630. The total receipts for the year by Canada's 
first railway amounted to $60,932. In 1896 the passengers carried by 
Canada's railways numbered 14,810,407, and the tons of freight, 
24,266,825 tons. The total receipts were $5o»S4S,569. 

Railway Statistics first collected in 1875 i ^^n. Alexander Mackenzie, 
Minister of Public Works including Railways. C. J. Brydges, General 
Manager of the Intercolonial Railway, had the forms prepared. 

Railway Subsidies Act — The number of railways entitled to receive cash 
mileage subsidies under the Dominion Act of 1882, and subsequent Acts, 
was, on 1st July, 1896, eighty-five representing 5,447 miles of railway. 
The total amount ol the subsidies proposed was $43,087,617. Of 
this sum $41,508,227 had been paid ; $748,169 had lapsed or been can- 
celled, leaving $831,221 of a balance outstanding. In addition, there were 
three railways entitled to receive cash subsidies of fixed amounts, three 
subsidized by grants of loans, seven by grants of used iron rails, and two 
paid by Special Acts of Parliament $80,000 each per annum for twenty 
years ; twenty-two railways received subsidies in the form of land grants. 

Railway Transit from United States through Canada to United States, first 
authorized by Order-in-Council, 1856. (See Bonding.) 

Railway TunneMSee Tunnel.) 

Readjustment of Provincial Debts— (i) When the Union was formed cer- 
tain provincial debts were assumed by the Dominion government. These 
amounted to $77^500,000, the old province of Canada's share being $62,- 



150 First Things in Canada. 

500,000 ; that of l^ova Scotia, $8,000,000, and that of New Bronswick 
$7,000,000. Hod. Joseph Howe, A. W. McLelan and £. M. McDonald, 
leading men of the Anticonfederate Party of Nova Scotia, strongly objected 
to the financial arrangements made for their province under sections iii- 
120 of the Union Act of 1867, and theit complaints to the British govern- 
ment led the Imperia) authorities to place upon Sir John Macdonald the 
duty of reconciling the Anticonfederate Party of Nova Scotia to the Union. 

(2) In accomplishment of the task conferences were held and a re- 
arrangement of the financial basis agreed upon. Sir John then called 
upon Mr. Howe to join the government. Mr. Howe acceding was ap- 
pointed President of the Privy Council and his seat became vacant. 
Offering for re-election for Hants County he was returned by a majority 01 
383 (his majority in 1867 was 534.) The result was a severe fracture of 
the Anticonfederate Party and the passing of ''An Act relating to No?a 
Scotia," being Chap. 2, Act of 1869. 

(3) In consequence of the creation of Manitoba and the admission of 
other provinces, other Acts and Orders-in-Council were passed ; 

{a) Manitoba Act, 1870, Chap. 3 (consult Sections 24 and 25.) 
{6) British Columbia O.C. page 84, Statutes of Canada, 1872. 
{c) P. E. Island O.C. page 14, Acts of 1873. 

(4) Agitation sprang up in the provinces of Ontario and Quebec against 
payment of interest on the sum of 10^ million dollars (by which amount, 
the actual debt of the old Province of Canada exceeded its allowed debt | 
of $62,500,000 under the Union Act.) The agitation culminated in an 
Act, Chap. 30, Acts of 1873, to re-adjust the amounts payable to and 
chargeable against the several provinces, supplemented by Chap. 4 of the 
Acts of 1884 relating to arrears of interest. 

(5) These Acts and Orders-in-Council contain the authority under which 
the sums mentioned below were assumed or allowed by the Dominion and 
by such act became part of the federal debt. I 

Provincial debts at the time of Confederation assumed .... $77,500,000! 

Debts subsequently assumed or allowed : — I 

Nova Scotia (Better terms, 1869) i, 186,756 1 

Old Province of Canada, 1873 10,506,089, 

Province of Ontario 2,848,289 

** Quebec... 2,549,214' 

" Nova Scotia 2i343.o59| 

** New Brunswick I,8o7,72o| 

** Manitoba 3,775.6o6| 

** British Columbia 2,029,392 

** Prince Edward Island 4.884,023' 



Total $109,430,148! 

Rebellion — First armed rebellion against the Federal power was headed byl 
Riel, whose first overt act was the seizure of Fort Garry, November 24tb,l 
1869. In a lecture delivered by Lord Wolseley (December, i889)iti5| 
stated that ** his small army for the crushmgout of this rebellion conastedj 
of artillery, infantry and engineers. (The Canadian force connected with 
this expedition numbered at first 750 men, afterwards increased to 1,0001. 
Then arose the question how they were to get to iFort Garry. Some sugl 
gested that they should go round by the way of the North Pole, but it wasi 
ultimately decided to start from Canada. The route was 600 miles in | 



i 



First Things in Canada. 151 

length, and a greater portion of the way was nothing but a howling wild- 
erness with a large number of lakes. From start to finish there was a 
great rush, and men, who were only half fed, had to work in a way he 
(Wolseley) had never before or since witnessed. Owing to the difficulties 
they met with, the clothes the men wore became very disreputable and 
as the flour which they carried was used up the bags were used to mend 
the seats of their breeches. He was told before starting that the country 
was so bad that the expedition would never reach its destination, and that 
it was a crime to lead the men into such danger. He replied, * I have 
been told to go to Fort Garry, and you may take your oath that we shall 
get there.' From start to finish the only stimulant the men had was tea, 
and not a man was lost. '* 

The second rebellion, like the first, was headed by Riel. On March 
22nd, 1885, Sir John Macdonald received a dispatch stating that Riel and 
40 men had seized the mail bags at a way office near Duck Lake, in the 
Prince Albert District. General Middleton, after having an interview 
with the Minister of Militia, on the 23rd March left for Winnipeg, 
arriving there March 27th. Active operations had been begun by 
Honourable Edgar Dewdney, who on the 23rd called out the 
90th (Winnipeg) Battalion and the Field Battery ; the Hudson Bay 
Company taking charge of the commissariat and doing the work splen- 
didly. A great military ardour flamed up all over Canada. Over 5,000 
Canadians volunteered and were sent forth with most enthusiastic demon- 
strations. The rebellion was stamped out. Riel was captured, tried and 
hanged on November i6th, 1885. This event caused an explosion of race 
feeling among French Canadians, which exercised considerable influence 
in the Province of Quebec in the general elections of 1887 as in the 
previous Provincial elections of 1886. 

Before Confederation on two occasions troops had to be sent to Fort 
Garry. Owing to dissatisfaciion in the settlement and to "American" 
intrigue, a body of regular troops was sent out from England in 1846, 
under command of Col. J. F. Crofton, consisting of 383 persons, covering 
detachments from the 6th Foot, the Royal Artillery and the Engineers. 
These troops returned to England in 1848, and were succeeded by a corps 
of 56 soldiers. In 1857, 100 men of the Royal Canadian Rifles were sent 
to Fort Garry by way of Hudson Bay, like the others in 1846 and 1848. 
Reciprocity with United States, Efforts made to secure— Efforts have been 
made from time to time by Canada, both before and since Confederation 
to secure reciprocity with the United States, the principal steps taken 
being as follows : — 

1. The Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada passed address 
to the Imperial Government to open negotiations with the United 
States for reciprocity in free admission of goods from either country to 

the other 1847 

2. The Canadian Legislature reduced duties on imports from the United 
States from 12^ to 7^ per cent., and raised duties on British goods 
from 5 to 7j^ per cent. United States did not respond 1847 

3. The Canadian Legislature enacted that certain products of United 
States should be admitted free, when United States admitted similar 
goods free from Canada. United States House of Representatives 
passed similai law, but Senate would not accept it 1849 

4. Sir F. Hincks visited Washington on behalf of Canadian provinces in 
favour of reciprocity. United States Senate refused to act 1850 



152 First Things in Canada. 

5. Reciprocity Treaty negotiated by Lord Elgin 1854 

6. Reciprocity Treaty came into force. 1855 

7. Notice of abrogation of Reciprocity Treaty, given by United States, 
against wish ot Canada 1865 

8. Reciprocity Treaty expired accordii^ to notice given by United 
States 1866 

9. Sir A. Gait and Hon. W. P. Howland from Province of Canada, 
Hon. W. A. Henry from Nova Scotia and Hon. A. J. Smith from 
New Brunswick were sent to Washington to co-operate with Sir F. 
Bruce, British minister, in urging renewal of reciprocity treaty. 
United States declined 1866 

10. In the first session after Confederation the Parliament of Canada en- 
acted that certain products of United States should be admitted free 
or at reduced duty, when the United States treated similar Canadian 
goods in same way 1868 

11. Sir J. Rose was sent by Canadian Government to Washington to 
co-operate with Sir E. Thornton, British Minister, in negotiating 
reciprocity treaty. United States would not accept proposals. 1869 

12. Sir J. Macdonald.and his British colleagues on the joint commission, 
which negotiated the Washington treaty, proposed that the reciprocity 
treaty should be restored. United States Commissioners refused . . . . 1871 

13. The United States National Board of Trade petitioned Congress for 
renewal of reciprocity, and the Macdonald Administration in Council 
formally declared its readiness 1872 

14. The Mackenzie Administration sent Hon. Geo. Brown to Washington 
to co-operate with Sir E. Thornton, British Minister, in negotiating 
reciprocity treaty. A treaty was agreed to, but United States Senate 
would not ratify it 1874 

15. The Customs tariff Act, inaugurating the National Policy, offered 
access free or at reduced duty to certain United States prodacts, if 
United States acted similarly with Canadian goods 1879 

16. The United States abrogated clauses of the Washington treaty bearing 
on trade in fish with Canada i\ 

17. Sir Charles Tupper, Bart., acting in conjunction with Sir Sackville 
West (afterwards Lord Sackville) and Rt. Hon. Jos. Chamberlain, Brit- 
ish Plenipotentiaries to negotiate treaty at Washington as to fisheries, 
etc. , proposed to discuss arrangements for greater freedom of com- 
mercial intercourse as part of settlement. United States Plenipoten- 
tiaries refused to discuss tariff question ij 

18. Treaty negotiated by above mentioned commissioners was signed, but 
United States Senate refused to ratify it li 

19. The Act to amend the Customs Act renewed offer to make certain 
goods free on reciprocal action by United States, the list of articles 
being somewhat changed il 

20. Suggestions were made by Canada through the British authorities for 
inclusion with Newfoundland in arrangements as to fisheries, trade, 
etc., with United States. The United Slates authorities replied that 
separate arrangements with Canada would be considered iSqi 

21. Canadian Ministers were sent to act with the British Ambassador in 
informal meetings with United States Ministers to discuss question 
between the two countries. The meetings were postponed by United 
States authorities i; 

22. Some of the Canadian Ministers, with the British Ambassador, had 



First Things in Canada. 153 

informal interviews with United States Ministers at Washington as to 
fisheries, boundaries, wrecking, and other matters in dispute. Reci- 
procity in trade was mentioned but no action was taken, the United 
States Ministers holding that similar tariffs and discrimination against 
other countries including the United Kingdom were essential 1892 

23. The Customs tariff Act of 1894 proposed in several clauses to remit or 
reduce duties on various articles produced by United States in return 

for similar concessions to Canada 1894 

24. Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright, Minister of Trade and Commerce, paid 
an informal visit, with Hon. Mr. (now Sir Louis) Da vies. Minister 
of Marine and Fisheries, to see what could be done with the Wash- 
ington Government 1896 

Regatta — The first regatta was held in Halifax Harbour, July 19th, 1826. 
Reh^ons Orders — The first priest to arrive in Canada was P^re D'Aubrey, 
1604. His first experience was not of the most agreeable sort. He went 
off in a patache to explore the coast of Nova Scotia near the Metaghan 
River, got lost, wandered about for seventeen days, and was found more 
dead than alive. In 161 1 three Jesuits landed at Port Royal, Acadia, but 
did not remain long. In 161 5 the R^coUets arrived at Quebec, and 
during the period of their stay they did good exploratory work. Roberts 
says ** They were the first of Europeans to pierce the wilderness lying 
between the St. Lawrence and the Bay of Fundy. Within five years of 
their coming we find their sandalled feet on the liepisiquit antl on the St. 
John, at Cape Sable, and at Port Royal. When Champlain made his ex- 
pedition to the Huron country, the R6collet Father le Caron went ahead 
of him in his zeal, and was thus the first to carry the cross to the tribes of 
the great lakes." In 1625 three Jesuits came out to Quebec, one of them 
having been first sent in 1611 to Port Royal, Acadia. This famous Order 
turned the zeal of its disciples in the direction of the West, and began in 
Canada the career which has contributed to cover their name with renown 
fully as much as their deeds in other quarters of the globe. The Ursulines 
and Hospitali^res arrived in Quebec in 1639. The Sulpicians came over 
in 1657, secured the prize of Ville Marie (Montreal) and have grown with 
the growth of that City into a wealthy corporation. 
Regina — Named and made the seat of Government for the North-West 

Territories, August 23rd, 1882. 
Registration of Letters — The plan of roistering money letters for trans- 
mission through the Canadian post offices was expanded so as to make reg- 
istration applicable to any letter without reference to its special contents, 
Feb. 1st, 1855. During the first year there were carried 350,000 registered 
letters. In 1896 these numbered 3,505,500. 
Religious Controversy — First introduced into Canada in 1604. Champlain, 
telling about the first band of colonists that ever crossed the ocean to build 
homes in Canada, says : ** I have seen the Minister (Huguenot) and our 
Cur^ attack each other with their fists upon the difference of religion." 
Controversy of this kind in later times has followed pugilism, being con- 
ducted more with the mouth than with the fists. 
Representation in the House of Commons— The first readjustment in 
accordance with the provisions of the Constitution was made in the Session 
of 1882. Sir John Macdonald gave notice of the Bill, 21st April, 1882. 
On 8th May he moved second reading. Mr. Blake moved amendment, 
opposing the Bill, becaused it interfered with municipal organizations. 
Negatived, 1 11 to 51. Mr. Mills moved amendment, opposing interfer- 



154 First Things in Canada, 

ence with existing arrangements. Negatived, 112 to 52. On 12th May 
Sir John moved 3rd reading, on which there were 23 divisions before the 
motion passed. The second readjustment (1892) reduced the number of 
representatives by two, one t>eing taken from Nova Scotia, two from New 1 
Brunswick and one from Prince Edward Island, while Manitoba had an 
addition of two. 

Representative Assemblies— These were established in the Maritime Pro- 
vinces by virtue of the commissions and instructions issued by the Sover- 
eign to the Governors on their appointment. Upper and Lower Canada 
and British Columbia were provided with these assemblies by Statutes of 
the Imperial Parliament. 

RepresentatiYe Assemblies were granted by the British Government to Nova 
Scotia in 1758, to Prince Edward Island in 1769 (the first assembly meet- 
ing in Aug., 1773), and to New Brunswick after its establishment as a 
separate province in 1784 (the first assembly meeting in 1786). Upper and 
Lower Canada received theirs in 1791 by Act of Parliament. Vancouver 
Island received its in 1849 by Imperial Statute, the first Legislature meet- 
ing in 1856. The mainland received a Representative Assembly in 1858 
by Imperial Statute. 

The story how Nova Scotia received her Representative Assembly so , 
early is interesting. John Pownall, Secretary to the Lords of Trade and 
Plantations (a body corresponding to the present Colonial office) had con- 
siderable experience with the New England Colonies as coadjutor of 
Jonathan Belcher. When Belcher went to Nova Scotia, Pownall, in 
London, kept up correspondence with his old friend in Halifax and on one 
occasion expressed to Belcher, then Chief Justice, doubts about the 
legislative authority of the Council. These doubts having been concurred 
in by the Chief Justice, Pownall, as Secretary of the Board, wrote to 
Governor Lawrence, who called upon the Chief Justice to prepare a memo 
on the legal bearing of the clause in the Royal instructions to Governor 
Lawrence, which gave the Governor *' full power and authority to summon 
and call general assemblies of the freeholders and planters within your 
government, according to the usuage of the rest of our Colonies and Plan- 
tations in America." The Chief Justice's memo was transmitted by the 
Governor to the Lords of Trade and Plantations, in January, 1755. By 
them it was submitted to the law officers of the Crown (one of them after- 
wards Lord Mansfield), who gave their opinion that the ** Governor and 
Council of Nova Scotia are not authorized by His Majesty to make laws 
till there can be an Assembly.'* This is dated April 29th, 1755. On May 
7th, 1755, the Lords of Trade and Plantations wrote to Governor Lawrence, 
stating that their desire was that " you will immediately consult with His 
Majesty's Chief [ustice in what manner an assembly can be most properly 
convened, transmitting to us as soon as possible your opinion and report 
thereon." Evidently the King's business required haste. But apparently 
there was unwillingness on the part of the Governor and his Council to 
surrender any portion of the powers they had wielded. It was not till 3rd 
January, 1757, that the Council passed the ** proposed Constitution of the 
Legislative Assembly." Finally the Lords of Trade and Plantations, 
under date Feb. 7th, 1758, administer a wigging to the Governor : ** Having 
so often and so fully repeated to you our sense and opinion of the propriety 
and necessity of the measure taking place, it only remains for us to direct 
its being carried into immediate execution, that His Majesty's subjects 
(great part of whom are alleged to have quitted the province on account of 



First Things in Canada. 155 

the great discontent prevailing for want of an Assembly) may no longer be 
deprived of that privilege, which was promised to them by His Majesty 
when the settlement of the colony was undertaken, and was one of the 

conditions upon which they accepted the proposals then made We 

think it of indispensable necessity that it should be immediately carried 
into execution." 

On the 20th May the Governor brought this sharp despatch before his 
Council, and all arrangements having been made, the first Legislative 
Assembly in Canada met at Halifax, on the 2nd October, 1758, to take 
their share in making the laws of the province. After organizing, their 
first resolution, passed unanimously, was that they would all serve without 
money remuneration for that Session. 
Responsible Government —From the year of the conquest, 1759 until 1791, 
what now constitutes the two Provinces of Ontario and Quebec constituted 
between these years the old Province of Quebec. The Imperial Act of 1 791 
created the Provinces of Upper and Lower Canada, and it was the first Act 
which was passed by the Imperial Parliament conferring full and liberal 
powers upon a colony. These two provinces were the first of the colonies in 
which a Legislature was established by the Imperial Parliament. Our 
country is memorable in that respect, as being the first of the colonies of the 
Empire to which a Legislature was granted in that way. There was also an 
authority expressed in the Act of 179 1 which was of very great moment : 
that was that there should be an Executive Council for the management of 
the affairs of each Province, The question of Responsible Government 
originated from these few words in the Constitutional Act of 1791. That 
question was seriously agitated for many years, from 1836 onwards. It 
rose to prominence in the time of Sir Francis Bond Head, and was con- 
tinued until the first session of 1 841, when the two provinces were reunited. 
A resolutioq, affirming the advisability of Responsible Government, was 
introduced and carried, Robert Baldwin being the man deserving to be had 
in remembrance for the principle thus engrafted into our political life. 
(See "Govt., Responsible.") 
Retrocession of the waters of Lake Superior ; first mentioned in Alexander 
Mackenzie's Voyages y 1788-89. He says : ** The waters at Grand Portage 
withdrew with great precipitancy, leaving ground dry that had never 
oefore been visible, the fall being equal to four perpendicular feet, and 
rushing back with great velocity above the common mark. It continued 
thus, rising and falling for several hours, gradually decreasing, till it 
stopped at its usual height." 
Rifle Association, Dominion, first formed in 1867. Colonel Botsford was 
the first President, holding the office till 187 1. Representatives from all 
the provinces first met, September ist, 1886. The gathering was in 
Ottawa, and British Columbia was, for the first time, represented by a body 
of riflemen. 
River St. Lawrence first opened for use of all nations in 1849. 
River St John — The first settlement on the River St. John, New Brunswick, 
was at Beau Bear Fort, and the next at Gimross. The first real settle- 
ment was where the Oromocto River falls into the St. John. The principal 
settlement of early times was at St. Ann's (Fredericton). Report by Col. 
Bruce, on the cleared lands of the St. John River, Jan. 24th, 1763. 
Roads — The first road built in New France was constructed by de Courcelles, 
1665, from ** the foot of the Current " to Chambly, 16 miles in length. 
Before 1733 there were roads in the immediate neighborhood of the three 



156 First Things in Canada. 

cities of Montreal, Quebec and Three Rivers, but in 1733 the interrening 
distances were connected, and in 1734 a wheeled vehicle first passed from 
Quebec to Montreal by a high road. The first Government appropriation 
for roads in Upper Canada was made in 1804, when ;^x,ooo was granted. 
The first Act passed required that every man should clear a roadway across 
his property. Through being made passable over swamps, by means of 
round trunks of trees laid across the road bed, these roads were called cor- 
duroy, the lively imagination of the roadmakers seeing in them a resem- 
y^ blance to the King's corduroy cloth. 
Roada — The first road built in Canada was in Annapolis County, Nova Scolia, 
from Digby Gap to the Fort, a distance of ten or twelve miles. It was 
built under Champlain's directions, and was a military road, 1604. 
Road — The first plank road in Upper Canada was built in 1836. 

Rocky Mountains— First mention of them in 1751, when ten men of De 
Niverville's exploring party canoed up the Saskatchewan River ** aux 
lies Roches." 

Rogers' Pass, through the Rocky Mountains, first discovered by Major 
Rogers, acting for the C.P.R., 1883. It took him two years of hardship, 
privation and toil to win the success that finally rewarded his efforts. 

Roller Boat— The Knapp Roller Boat was launched in Toronto, Sept. 6th, 
1897. Its dimensions are 1 10 feet long and 22 feet in diameter. It is 
intended to revolve through the water. To effect this the unique structure 
has at each end a track, somewhat wider than a railway track, fastened to 
the outside cylinder. On each track is a platform on wheels. On it is 
placed the motive power, which consists of two 50 horse power boilers 
(four in all). Driving belts connect the wheels with high pressure engines. 
When set in motion the result is similar to the action of a locomotive on a 
railway track. The projector says the best description of the principle 
involved in his invention is to think of a squirrel in a revolving cage, the 
engine and the platform being the squirrel. 

Roman Catholics first relieved from obligation to take the test oath in 
Canada in 1774. They were not relieved from their disabilities in the 
United Kingdom till 1829. 

Royal Conclave of Knights and Ladies— First instituted in St. Stephen, 
N.B., 1890. 

Royal Military College Club — Organized in 1884 at Toronto; objects: 
encouragement of good feeling and advancement of the welfare of the 
members, the cadets and the College. Annual meetings are held in rota- 
tion in Toronto, Montreal, Ottawa and Kington. The Club membership 
is restricted to those who have attended the College as cadets. 

Royal Society of Canada — Founded December 30th, 1881 ; first volume of 
Transactions published in 1883. The Royal Society has published 14 
volumes of Transactions including 492 papers on various topics, of which 
120 are in French. The number of societies associated with the Royal is 
28, all in Canada. The first president of the Royal Society was J. W. 
Dawson, C.M.G., and the ist vice-president Hon. P. J. Chauveau. The 
Society was brought into existence by the Marquis of Lome who, in Dec, 

1881, invited a few gentlemen to meet him in Montreal. To these he 
submitted a memorandum relating to the formation of an institute, academy 
or society for the promotion of literature and science in the Dominion of 
Canada. The first meeting of the Society was in Ottawa on 25th May, 

1882, when His Excellency the Governor-General delivered the inaugural 
address. The Society consists of four sections (i) French and (2} English 



First Things in Canada. 157 

literature, with history, archaeology and allied subjects (3) mathematical, 
chemical and physical subjects, and (4) geological and botanical sciences. 
The normal strength of each ot the four sections is 25 members. The 
last meeting (1897) was held in Halifax ; in connection with it was the 
Cabot Celebration. 
Royal Visits to Canada—The first visit of a member of the Royal House of 
Guelph was in 1787 when the Duke of Clarence came. This was 28 years 
atter the Conquest and 25 years after the Treaty of Paris by which Can- 
ada was ceded to Great Britain by France. The Duke of Kent, Queen 
Victoria's father, arrived at Quebec on August 8th, 1791, from Gibraltar 
in command of the 7th Royal Fusiliers and remained three years. He 
returned to Canada in 1799 as Commander-in-Chief at Halifax. The 
Prince of Wales visited Canada in i860, Prince Alfred in 1861 and again 
in 1878. Princess Louise came in 1878. Prince Leopold and the Duke of 
Connanght also visited Canada, the latter (for the second time) in 1890. He 
and his consort came from England by way of China and Japan. 
Sable Island — When first known this dark isle of mourning was 40 miles 
long by 2% miles wide. It has shrunk in size and now is not more than 22 
miles long by one mile wide. It is the centre and meeting place of three 
great ocean currents. The Gulf Stream going east passes to the south. 
The great arctic current flowing past the Labrador coast is divided at the 
Strait of Belle Isle. The main portion passing doi» n the east coast of 
Newfoundland is deflected, on reaching the ** grand banks," to the west- 
ward and passes along the coast of Nova Scotia between Sable Island and 
the main land. Another portion of the arctic current pours into the Gulf 
of the St. Lawrence through the Strait of Belle Isle and, being joined by 
the ocean-ward moving waters of the River St. Lawrence, passes out be- 
tween Cape Breton and Newfoundland and is deflected westward by the 
main arctic current. The conflicting currents produce swirls and eddies 
— a Sargasso sea of sands, instead of sea weeds— in the centre of which is 
Sable Island, round and round which rush the currents of water without 
regard to the winds. Naturally the ice-cold currents of the north imping- 
ing against the tropic-heated waters of the Gulf Stream produce fogs during 
all the year — the kind of fog sailors mean when they say you could ** cut it 
with a knife. " The changes in the atmosphere produce violent storms. 
The result of this combination of the powers of darkness is that Sable 
Island is the centre of the greatest wreck region in the Atlantic Ocean. 
A list published in the Royal Society's (Canada) Transactions for 1894 in 
connection with a valuable paper on Sable Island contributed by Rev. 
George Patterson shows 187 known wrecks to have occurred on and 
around Sable Island. About 100 lives have been lost there since 1848. 
The Portuguese originally named it Santa Cruz. An early Italian 
cartographer names it" (1548) Isolla del Arena. Joannes Freire, a Portu- 
guese map maker (1546), called it I. de Sable. The Island has been writ- 
ten about by navigators of the far past like Sir Humphrey Gilbert, Cham- 
plain, Lescarbot, DeLaet, etc. Hon. Joseph Howe made it the theme of 
a poem. Dr. J. Bernard Gilpin some years ago wrote for Harper's 
Magazine an interesting account of a visit he made to the island. Wm. 
Smith, for many years the efficient deputy head of the Marine and Fish- 
erics Department at Ottawa, contributed (1893) an article to the London 
Nautical Magazine. Capt. Darby, for over 30 years superintendent of 
the Humane Establishment on the island, contributed an excellent account 
to Blunt's Coast Pilot, Dr. J. C. Tach^'s pamphlet published in 1882 is 
the fiillest account there is of the island. 



158 First Things in Canada. 

In 1800 the Legislature of Nova Scotia bad presented to it *' a statement 
of facts relating to the Isle of Sable " and *' observations on an establish- 
ment proposed to be made on the Isle of Sable for the relief of the dis- 
tressed and the preservation of property." In 1801 a large ship from 
Boston loaded with flour was wrecked on the Island. The Assembly 
voted ;f 600 a year to maintain three families on the island to give assist- 
ance and passed an Act for a permanent Humane Establishment, which 
continued under the charge of Nova Scotia till 1867, when all such estab- 
lishments passed under the control of the Federal Authorities. The Im- 
perial Government contributed ;f 800 stg. towards the expenses of the Sable 
Island Humane Establishment. During the war of 1812 the United States 
Government issued an order forbidding their armed vessels to injure or 
intercept vessels lx)und to or from Sable Island. Public spirited persons 
in Boston presented the Government of Nova Scotia in 1853 with a life- 
boat named The Victoria ; Philadelphia sent the life-boat Grace Darling, 
and New York the /Reliance. (See Life Stations.) 

Salt — The first works for the manufacture of salt were established by Governor 
Simcoe in the Township of Louth, Upper Canada, 1793. The salt beds of 
South Western Ontario cover an area of about 2,000 square miles, embrac- 
ing the Counties of Lambton and Huron and portions of Bruce, Middlesex 
and Kent and probably the whole of Essex. These salt beds were Brst 
discovered in 1865 at Goderich and since that time wells have been sunk 
at Clinton, Seaforth, Brussels. Blyth,Wingham, Kincardine, Port Franks, 
Exeter, Courtright, Parkhill, Windsor and other places. In Kincardine 
the upper bed is reached at about 900 feet from the surface ; in Goderich 
at 1,000 feet and in Courtwright at 1,600. A well drilled near Windsor in 
Nov. 1892 struck salt at a little over 1,127 ^^^^' In this instance the rock 
salt was forty feet thick and was succeeded by rock 20 to 30 feet thick ; 
then came a second layer of salt, 23 feet thick, then five feet of rock and 
then 38 feet of salt. The production of salt in Canada in 1895 was 60,018 
tons, valued at $180,417. 

Salvation Army — First made their appearance in Canada in September, 1882. 
The invading force consisted of one sergeant and 40 soldiers. The army 
began its attacks upon British Columbia at Victoria in 1887. 

San Juan Boundary- Decided against Canada, 21st October, 1872. Under 
the provisions of the Washington Treaty, 1 871, Article XXXIV, the 
boundary line between the United States and Vancouver Island was left 
to the arbitrament of the Emperor of Germany who decided that the 
boundary should be through the Haro Channel, thus handing over the 
Island of San Juan to the United States. 

Sault Ste. Marie Bridge — First freight train of 19 cars of flour passed over 
the bridge, into Canada, January 9th, 1888. 

Sanitation — In 1667 the King of France by an ordinance established for New 
France a system of registration of baptisms, marriages and burials which is 
still in force in the Province of Quebec. The priests have been the agents 
through whom the registrations have been provided. In 1677 the Superior 
Council convened a meeting of the inhabitants of Quebec to decide upon 
the proper inspection of bread. In 1707 it passed strict regulations for 
the inspection of meat. In 1 795, the typhus fever epidemic in Ireland 
caused the adoption of regulations for the inspection and quarantining of 
vessels. If the captain of a vessel did not tell the inspector everything 
without reserve or equivocation, the penalty provided was the loss of his 
head. From 181 5 to 1821 the Government appointed public vaccinators 



First Things in Canada. 159 

and encouraged vaccination in every way. In 1832 renewed action was 
taken in connection with the epidemic of cholera. (See ** Quarantine.") 
In 1849 a Statute was passed (Chap. 38 of the Consolidated Statutes of 
1859) establishing temporary boards of health whenever the Province was 
threatened with any formidable epidemic or contagious disease, the 
machinery for action to be done away on the disappearance of the cause of 
action. When Confederation became an accomplished fact, sanitary ques- 
tions were subject to a double authority, the general principle guiding the 
Federal and the Provincial authorities being that to the first belonged the 
re4>onsibility of preventing diseases entering the Dominion from without, 
and to the second the duty of grappling with disease within the Province. 
The Provincial authorities either act directly through Provincial boards or 
mediately through the intervention of municipalities. Marine hospitals for 
sick seamen are an exception to the general rule ; the care and maintenance 
of these being entrusted to the Department of Marine and not to the 
Provincial authorities. 
Saving^s Banks — Postal savings banks were established in 81 places in 
Ontario and Quebec on ist April, 1868 ; the necessary legislation having 
been passed in the Federal Parliament during its November (1867) session. 
Savings banks have been established in Great Britain from 1810, when 
Rev. Henry Duncan started the Parish Bank Friendly Society of Ruth well ^ 
Scotland. By 1817 there were 78 savings banks in the United Kingdom. 
Mr. Whitbread was the first to propose the idea ot connecting savings 
banks with the Government, and introduced a bill into the British Parlia- 
ment in 1807, but failed to secure approval. In 1S61 Hon. William E, 
Gladstone carried a bill prepared by Rowland Hill, embodying Mr. Whit- 
bread's ideas. In Sept., 1861, the post office savings banks wese opened 
and 435 deposits were made. 

Postal savings banks were established as under : — 

Great Britain 1861 Netherlands ... 1881 

Western Australia 1863 Tasmania 1882 

Victoria 1865 Austria 1883 

Queensland 1865 Sweden 1883 

New Zealand 1865 Cape of Good Hope. 1884 

Canada 1868 Portugal 1885 

New South Wales 1871 Hungary 1886 

Japan 1874 Hawaii 1886 

Italy 1875 Finland 1886 

France 1881 Russia 1889 

Post office savings banks in Belgium were established in iSbg^ but only 
as feeders to the Caisse Ginira-e d'Epargne et de Retraite, In France 
post office savings banks were adopted in 187$ as feeders to other banks. 

Savings banks in Canada are (ist) those in direct charge of the Govern- 
ment, divided into {a) post office savings banks and {b) Finance Depart- 
ment savings banks ; (2) special savings banks under charter as such ; (3) 
savings banks in connection with loan companies and building societies ; 
and (4) savings banks in connection with chartered banks doing general 
banking business. 

(a) The post office savings banks in Canada on 30th June, 1896, num- 
bered 755. The total number of open accounts at that date was 126,442, 
and the total amount standing to the credit of these open accounts was 
$28,932,930, or an average of $228.82. 155,398 deposits were received 



i6o First Things in Canada. 

during the year, a number only exceeded in 1888, 1889 and 1890. The 
average amount of each deposit in 1896 was $52.37. The number of 
withdrawals in 1896 was 87,221, and the average amount of each with- 
drawal was $84.91. 30,100 new accounts were opened. Deposits are 
allowed of not less than $1 nor more than $1,000 in any one year. Total 
amount on deposit by any one depositor not to exceed $3,000. Interest 
allowed from 1st July, 1897, 3 per cent. On 1st September, 1885, the 
post office system of savings banks was extended to the other Provinces. 

(f>) Other Government savings banks are chiefly in the Maritime Pro- 
vinces ; of the 35, in all, 32 are in the Provinces of Nova Scotia, New 
Brunswick and Prince Edward Island. In these, deposits to the amount 
of $1,000 are allowed. 

Taking the two classes under direct Government control, the statistical 
position is as follows : — ' 



— 


Ontario. 


Quebec. 


N. Scotia. 


N. Brunswick. 


No. of Government 

savings banks . 

No. of depositors.. 

Amount of deposits 


457 

91,181 

$20,024,883 


. .sill 

$5,042,904 


70 

30,204 

$8,866,990 


45 

22,185 

$8,168,812 


— 


Manitoba. 


B. Columbia. 

25 
^ o5'344 
$1,380,918 


P.E. Island. 


N. W. T. 


No. of Government 

savings banks . . 

Na of depositors.. 

Amount of deposits 


26 

-. 5»24i 
$987,943 


10 

6,763 
$2,188,720 


22 

855 

$138,148 



The interest paid by the Government on deposits is 3 per cent. * 

(2) The second kind are specially chartered savings banks. Of these 
there are two, both in the Province of Quebec — the City and District 
Savings Bank of Montreal, and the Caisse d'Economie de Notre Dame de 
Quebec. The first was established 26th May, 1846, and incorporated 27th 
April, 1871 ; the second was founded in Quebec City, 21st May, 1848, 
under the patronage of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul. It was incor- 
porated in April, 1855, and in 1872 obtained a special charter from the 
Federal Parliament. These had in 1850 deposits of $280,749 ; in 1861, 
$1,177,977 ; in 1871, $4,964,463; in 1881, $8,621,055 ; in 1891, $11,- 
900,753- The deposits at the end of 1896 amounted to $14,671,750. 

(3) Savings banks in connection with building and loan companies.— 
Some of the earlier of these took money on deposit ; but it was not till 
1874 (when by an Act passed by the Federal Parliament permission was 



* The rate of interest paid was 4 per cent, to ist October, 1889 ; 3% per cent, to ist 
July, 1897, on which date it became 3 per cent. 



First Things in Canada. i6i 

obtained to take deposits where the society had a paid-up capital of $200,- 
000), that the savings of the people ran up. In 1868 the deposits were 
under a million dollars. In 1875 they increased to over $5,000,000. In 
1878, after the change allowing companies with $100,000 paid-up capital 
to take deposits, the deposits amounted to $8,270,000 ; in 1881 to $13,- 
460,268, and in 1891 to $18,482,958. These deposits at the end of 1895 
amounted to $19,945,944. 

There are about 250 private bankers in Canada, and these hold about 
$10,000,000 of the people's savings. 

(4) Savings banks in connection with chartered banks doing general 
business. — These branches of the chartered banks had on 31st Dec, 1896, 
over $84,000,000 of the savings of the people, of the same character as 
those held by the Government savings banks. 

Savings Bank — First Savings Bank in the Dominion, under charge of the 
Government, was the Halifax, N.S., Savings Bank, established in 1832. 
Acts were passed in New Brunswick in 1825 and in Nova Scotia in 1827 
establishing Saving Banks. In the Province of New Brunswick before 
Confederation, there were trusteed Savings Banks and also special Gov- 
ernir^ent Savings Banks under charge of Collectors of Customs and other 

^ officials. (See Francis Hincks' Budget speech, 1871,) 

• Saxby Storm, which did great damage in Nova Scotia, occurred on October 
7th, 1869. It was predicted by Lieut. Saxby, R.N. 

I Schools— First committee appointed by the Legislature of Upper Canada to 
consider Education, 1787. The first common school in Upper Canada 

j was taught by J. Clark in Fredericksburg in 1786, and the first taught 

I by a female teacher was opened in Port Hope about 1813 by Miss Burns. 
In 1895 there were 6,070 female teachers in the Public Schools of Ontario. 
The free school system was adopted in Nova Scotia in 1864 ; in New 
Brunswick and Manitoba in 1871 ; in British Columbia in 1872 and in 
Prince Edward Island in 1877. The first Act establishing a Grammar 
School in Halifax, N.S., was passed by the Legislature in 1780. The 
first movement in favour of one in Upper Canada was made by Governor 
Simcoe in 1791. The first Industrial School founded in Halifax was 
founded by Walter Bromley, 1813. The first Orphan School in Nova 
Scotia was erected in 1750 and the first in Upper Canada near St. 
Catharines in 1 799. The first classical school opened in Upper Canada was 
by Rev. John Stuart, at Cataraqui, in 1786. The first effort in Nova Scotia 
for schools was made in 1780 when a grant of $600, to be raised by lot- 
tery, was authorized by the Legislature. The first teachers in Canada 
were the R^collet Fathers, Freres Duplessis and LeCaron, the first teach- 
ing where Three Rivers now stands and the second in Tadousac, about 
1616. The first Training School for Arts and Trades was opened by 
Bishop Laval at St. Joachim, 30 miles below Quebec City. 
School Annals of British Columbia— The public schools are in the hands 
of the people — non-sectarian and free to all without distinction of race or 
creed ; uniform text books. Public School Fund voted every year by the 
Provincial Assembly. School Districts may be formed where there are 15 
pupils between 6 and 16 years. The people in each district choose, every 
year from among themselves. School Trustees to manage the schools. 
Females can be elected trustees in city districts but are not eligible in 
country districts. They have the right to vote for trustees. Trustees 
obtain money from Public School Fund on application endorsed by Super- 
intendent of Education. Teachers — three grades — appointed and removed 



i62 First Things in Canada. 

by Trustees, must have certificates of qualification from Department of 
Education. These results have been obtained by development under a 
free school system, similar to that of Ontario, introduced in 1872 ; the 
establishment of an Educational Department with Ministerial Head in 
1879 ; the transfer of the power of appointing and dismissing teachers 
from the Board of Education to the local Board of Trustees and othei* per- 
sons under the Act of 189 1 relating to public schools. In 1896 there were 
(i) 190 common schools (2) 26 graded schools and (3) 4 high schools. 
There were 199 teachers in the first ; 139 in the second and 12 in the 
third. The number of pupils was : in the first, 5,743 with average attend- 
ance 3,087 ; in the second, 8,357, average attendance 5,879 ; in the third 
460 with an average attendance of 288. The total expenditure in 1896 
was $234,335, all by the Government, the schools being entirely supported 
by the Government. The average salary paid the teacher was $540 a year. 
School Annals of Manitoba — The first school in what is now Manitoba was 
opened by the French Roman Catholics in 18 18. The Scottish settlers 
opened one in 1820. In 1835 the Red River settlement was organized 
under the name of the District of Assiniboia. Each church erected had a 
school by its side controlled by the missionary and sustained by private 
subscriptions or by grants from the missionary societies in England and 
the older parts of Canada. In 1833 a higher school was established. This 
became, in 1855, St. John's College, which, in 1866, was placed on a new 
footing by the Bishop of Rupert's Land. The school established by the 
Roman Catholics in 1818 had become, before 1855, the College of St. 
Boniface, which, therefore, is the first College established in the North- 
West. The Scottish Selkirk Colony founded Manitoba College in 1871, 
in which year the Province obtained its first Public Schools law at the first 
meeting of the first Legislature. The Act provided for a joint School 
Board, the Protestant members having control of the Protestant Common 
Schools, and the Roman Catholics of the Roman Catholic Schools. The 
Act of 1873 made taxation compulsory. In 1876, 1882 and 1884 consid- 
erable modifications were effected. By the Act of 1890 (i) a Department 
of Education was established consisting of the Executive Council or a 
committee thereof. (2) An Advisory Board was constituted consisting of 
seven members, four appointed by the Department of Education, two 
elected by the Public and High School teachers of the Province, and one 
appointed by the University of Manitoba — all seven for terms of two years 
each. The Public Schools Act (i860) abolished the Separate School 
system with all the machinery connected therewith. This was not accept- 
able to the Roman Catholic authorities. An agitation sprung up, and to 
1897 these have refused to accept any settlement that does not give them 
Separate Schools. 

Manitoba University is the sole source of degrees in Arts, Law and 
Medicine for ^the Art Colleges of St. Boniface (Roman Catholic), St. 
John's (Church of England), Manitoba (Presbyterian), and Wesley 
(Methodist). The first examination in Arts was held in 1878 ; the first in 
Law in 1886. The Manitoba Medical College obtained its charter in 1884 
and is affiliated with the University. Wesley College was founded by the 
Methodists in 1873, but succumbed after a few years for want of sufficient 
equipment. Work was resumed in 1880. 

In the Public Schools the school age is 5 to 16 years. The number of 
Public Schools in 1896 was 1,032 ; of teachers, 1,143 » of pupils, 37,987, 
with an average attendance of 23,247. Inthe Normal Schools there were 



First Things in Canada. 163 

13 teachers, 136 students at long sessions and 102 at short. The total 
receipts were $857,153, of which municipal taxation yielded $472,039. 
The average salary paid the teacher was $382. 
School Annals of New Brunswick— The first Act relating to education 
was passed in 1802. By this Actlhe sum of ;^io ($40) was granted to 
each parish to be apportioned to its schools by the Justices of the General 
Sessions of the Peace. The Act of 1816 authorized the General Sessions 
to appoint three trustees of schools for each town or parish, whose duty 
was to raise money for the support of the schools, either by local subscrip- 
tion or assessment, the amount to be not less than $120 nor more than 
$360. The Provincial aid was payable to the trustees and was not to exceed 
$240 per year for the town or parish. A great step in advance was taken 
in 1847, when the Lieutenant-Governor and the Executive Council were 
constituted a Board of Education for the Province, with power to establish 
a training and model school at Fredericton, and to appoint two Inspectors 
of Schools for the Province. The Provincial aid to teachers was made by 
warrant to the trustees. The Act of 1852 authorized the Government to 
appoint a Chief Superintendent. The Act of 1858 repealed all previous 
Acts and provided for a Board of Education (defining its powers), a Chief 
Superintendent, the appointment of four Inspectors for the Province, the 
continuance and extension of the Training and Model School, the increase 
of Provincial allowances to teachers, the establishment of Superior Schools 
and of District Libraries. It also provided that schools may be supported 
by direct assessments. The Schools Act of 187 1 provides, in addition to 
the provisions of the Act of 1858, that the schools shall be supported by 
assessment, and shall be free and non-sectarian. 

The Provincial Board of Eiducation consists of the Lieut. -Governor, the 
members of the Executive Council, the President of the University of New 
Brunswick and the Chief Superintendent of Education. 

An Act of 1805 provided for the establishment of a Grammar School in 
the City of St. John, and that ;^ioo ($400) should be paid annually, from 
tMfe funds of the Province, towards the master's salary. This was the first 
Grammar School in the Province. An Act of 1816 provided for the 
establishment of a Grammar School in the town of St. Andrews, and an 
Act of 1879 provided for the establishment of a Grammar School in each 
County of the Province. 

The University of New Brunswick was established by Provincial Charter 
in 1800 ; founded and incorporated by Roys^l Charter in 1828, and reorgan- 
ized by an amended Charter in i860. The history of the Collegiate School 
is concurrent with the history of the University. 

The number of pupils in attendance at the Schools of the Province in 
1868 was, as nearly as can be ascertained, 34,500; in 1881 there were 
1,297 schools, 1,^56 teachers, 49,550 pupils, and an average attendance of 
29,203. In 1891 there were 1,536 schools, 1,632 teachers, 59,568 pupils, 
and an average attendance of 34,394. In 1896 there were 1,802 schools, 
1,829 teachers, 61,918 pupils, and an average attendance of 37,176. The 
total expenditure was $274,648, of which $148,430 came direct from the 
people and $126,218 was the Government grant. According to the census 
of 1891 those who could read and write were 643 out of every 1,000 of 
the population. 
School Annals of Nova Scotia— The Lords of Trade and Plantations 
arranged, at the lime (1748) steps were being taken to begin settlement in 
Chebucto Bay (Halifax Harbour), with the " Society for the Propagation 



1 64 First Things in Canada. 

of the Gospel in Foreign Parts," for the establishment and maintenance of 
schools in certain rural localities in Nova Scotia, grants of land being 
awarded the Society to reimburse it. The school work done in this way 
in the Province was most useful. In 1780 an Act was passed for the 
establishment of a Public Grammar School in Halifax. The Act and the 
School continued active forces in the community until 1876. In 181 1 an 
abortive attempt was made by the Legislature to lay the foundations of a 
general educational system. In 1826 a more elaborate Educational Act 
was passed, the grants under it in the first year amounting to ;^2,5cx). In 
1832 the total grant in aid of education was ;^4,ooo. In 1841 the Pro- 
vincial grant was increased to ;f 6,000, arid a Central Board established to 
give uniformity to the operations of the Boards of Commissioners. Further 
modifications were introduced in 1845, when the aggregate Iqgislative 
grant was raised to ;f 11,170. The Act of 1850 provided for a Superin- 
tendent of Education, the first to receive the appointment being a native 
of Nova Scotia, J. W. Dawson, now Sir William Dawson, the head of 
McGill University. In 1854 the Provincial Normal School was established, 
the first Principal being Rev. Dr. Forrester, who succeeded Mr. Dawson 
as Superintendent of Education. In 1864, under the guidance of Hon. 
Charles Tupper (now Sir Charles, Bart.), the Legislature laid the founda- 
tion of the present system of Public Schools. At the ensuing session, in 
1865, it led the way among all the colonies of the British Empire in mak- 
ing local assessment for the support of schools the necessary basis for their 
legal recognition. In 1857 the Province (first of all the colonies of the 
Empire) voted an appropriation (;^i,ooo) in support of a Deaf and Dumb 
Institution. Nova Scotia has four Universities : ist. King's College, 
founded in 1788, opened in 1790, and incorporated as a University in 1802 
by Royal Charter. It is under the control of the Church of England. 
2nd, Dalhousie College, founded by Earl Dalhousie in 1821. Its original 
endowment was derived from funds collected at the Port of Castine, in 
the State of Maine, during its occupation in 1814 by Sir John Sherbrooke, 
then Lieutenant-Governor of Nova Scotia. University powers were con- 
ferred on Dalhousie College in 184 1. In 1845 the College was closed "to 
allow the funds to accumulate." The Board of Governors from 1849 to 
1859 employed the income (in part) in support of a high school. In 1868 
a faculty of medicine was organized. In 1883 a faculty of law was added. 
The unparalleled munificence of George Munro has aided Dalhousie 
immensely. It is non-deaominational. 3rd, Acadia College (1838). It 
graduated its first class in 1843, and is under the control of the Baptists. 
4th, St. Francis Xavier College, founded in 1854, under the control of the 
Roman Catholics. 

The number of Public Schools in operation in 1865 was 989 ; teachers, 
1,031 ; total pupils, 43,771- There were 5 County Academies in opera- 
tion, with 30 teachers and 1,200 scholars, and also 10 Academies other 
than County, with 36 teachers and 680 pupils. The total grants in aid of 
education amounted to $93,263. 

In 1896 there were 2,312 Public Schools, with 2,438 teachers and loi,- 
132 pupils. The total amount expended in 1896 was $813,335, ^^ which 
the Government grant was $242,345. 

The County Academies had 47 teachers, 1,572 pupils, with an average 
attendance of 1,125. The Normal Schools had 7 teachers and 144 pupils, 
and the Model Schools 2 teachers and 1 14 students. 



First Things in Canada. 165 

School Annals of Ontario — The first School opened as a Classical School 
was in Kingston, by Rev. Dr. Stuart, 1786. Between that date and 1805 
Private Schools were established in Fredericksburg (1786), Ernestown 
(1788), Adolphustown (1789), Napanee (1791), Newark (1792), Toronto 
(1798), Cornwall (1803), Belleville (1805). In 1807 the first legislative 
enactment was passed establishing eight Schools in the Province. A grant 
of $400 a year to each was made out of the public funds. In 1816 the 
first Common School was established. In 1824 a General Board of Edu- 
cation for the Province was constituted. Upper Canada College was 
founded in 1829, and opened Jan. 8th, 1830. In 1832 the Cobourg 
Academy was founded, and in 1835 it was opened. Rev. Dr. Ryerson having 
procured a Royal Charter. In 1836 Dr. Charles Duncombe prepared an 
elaborate report on a system of education for the Province. In 1840-41 
Victoria and Queen's Colleges were incorporated as Universities, and the 
Friends (Quakers) established a Seminary near Picton. In 1843 Toronto 
University was opened. In 1844 Knox College went into operation, and 
in 1848 St. Joseph College, Ottawa, was started. In 1841 the principle of 
Separate Schools was first recognized. In 1844 Rev. Dr. Ryerson was 
appointed Superintendent of Education, and in 1846 he presented his 
noble report on a system of public elementary education in Upper Canada. 
His bill was adopted by the Legislature in 1846. In 1849 the Legislature 
passed a Bill repealing all former Acts. In 1850 Dr. Ryerson submitted 
to the Government a new Bill, which was made law the same year. In 
1852 the University of Trinity College was opened, and St. Michael's 
College established. In 1853 important improvements were made in the 
details of the Common School System. In 187 1 the Grammar and Com- 
mon School laws were revised, the former being from that date called 
High Schools, and the latter Public Schools. For preparing young men 
and women to be teachers, the Province has: ist, the County Model 
Schools ; 2nd, the Provincial Normal and Model Schools ; 3rd, the Train- 
ing Institutes ; 4th, Teachers' Institutes ; 5th, Teachers' Reading Course ; 
6th, Ontario Teachers' Association. In 1876 a Minister of Education was 
appointed. In 1887 McMaster University was established. 

The University Federation Act of 1887 was designed to secure a uniform 
standard of higher education by the union of the various denominational 
Universities of the Province with the Provincial University. The following 
institutions are now federated or affiliated with the Provincial University : 

Victoria University (Methodist), federated 1890 

Knox College (Presbyterian) ** 1890 

St. Michael's College (R. Catholic) " 1890 

Wycliffe ** (Episcopalian) ** 1890 

Huron ** " affiliated 1892 

The School of Practical Science ** 1889 

The Ontario Agricultural College ** 1888 

Trinity Medical School " 1877 

Royal College of Dental Surgeons " 1888 

Ontario College of Pharmacy ** 1892 

Women's Medical College ** 1890 

Toronto Conservatory of Music ** 1896 

*• College of Music ** 1890 

The number of Public Schools in 1896 was 5,994, the number of teachers 
was 8,913 ; the number of registered pupils 484,551, with an average 



i66 First Things in Canada. 

attendance of 271,549. The total expenditure was $4,197,192. The 
High Schools numbered 129, with 24,662 pupils and an average attendance 
of 14,962, and an expenditure of $720,728. There were 60 County 
Model Schools with 1,637 teachers in training. In the Normal Schools 
there were 13 teachers and 445 students. The expenditure for Couniy and 
Normal Schools was $46,094. 

In 1876 the Royal Military College, Kingston, was established by the 
Dominion Government. 
School Annals of Prince Edward Island — The administration is vested 
in a Board of Education, a Chief Superintendent and School Inspectors. 
Up to 1852 the Schools of the Province were supported mainly by volun- 
tary subscriotions. In 1852 the Free Education Act wa$ passed. The 
Provincial Normal School was established in 1856 ; the Prince of Walts' 
College in i860. The Public Schools Act was passed in 1877. It pro- 
vided for* a Department of Education and introduced into the Public 
School system of the Province many of the most approved principles and 
most modern methods of other countries. In 1879 the College and Normal 
School were amalgamated and women for the liist time admitted to the 
College. In 1896 there were 570 School departments in operation, with a 
force of 569 teachers and an army of 22,138 enrolled pupils, and an average 
attendance of 13,412. The total expenditure was $158,893. According 
to the census of 1891 there were 248.68 persons in every 1,000 of the 
population that could neither read nor write. 
School Annals of Quebec (Lower Canada)— In 1616 the first attempt to 
give instruction was made by the R^collets. When they were compelled 
to leave Quebec in 1829, Kirk having captured it, they were succeeded 
by the Jesuits who, in 1832, established in Quebec City a School for 
Indians in charge of P^re le Jeune, and in 1635 founded the Jesuits 
College, which was the leading institution of superior education in the 
Province during the French rigime. 

In 1639 the Ursuline Convent School was established in Quebec— the 
first Girls' School in Canada, and from its foundation down to the present 
time it has been an important factor in the higher education of women. 

In 1653 the Sisters of the Congregation of Notre Dame opened a Girls' 
School in Montreal. 

In 1657 the Sulpicians came to Canada and established the Seminary of 
St. Sulpice in Montreal. 

In 1663 Bishop Laval founded the classical institution of Z^ Petit Semi- 
noire de Quebec ^ to which was added in 1668 Le Grand Seminaire^ where 
theology was taught. 

In 1670 the Recollets returned to New France and resumed their educa- 
tional work interrupted forty years before. 

In 1728 the Jesuit College at Montreal was established. 

In 1737 the Christian Brothers undertook to teach elementary education 
in several parishes. In 1773 the Sulpicians established the College de 
Montreal. 

Private Schools were provided at an early date. The earliest mentioned 
is that of Mr. Reid, in Quebec, who was succeeded by James Tanswell, a 
gentleman who came out to Halifax, N.S., in 1772, and after teaching 
there for five years was persuaded by Sir Guy Carleton to remove to Que- 
bec. In 1783 his school was styled "His Majesty's Royal Quebec School." 

The first teacher in Montreal who aimed to give a higher education was 
John Pullman, who came from New York in 1773. His success is proble- 



First Things in Canada. 167 

matical, as in 1782 he wrote a work on currency and applied for a situa- 
tion under the Government, after which he vanishes from public observa- 
tion. Finlay Fisher opened a school in Montreal in 1778, and it was well 
attended. Rev. John Stuart opened an academy in Montreal, with Mr. 
Christie for assistant, in 1784, but went to Kingston in 1786. 

In 1787 the Government appointed a Committee to inquire into the 
state of Education. Upon the report of this Committee an Act was passed 
providing for a permanent Committee on Education. The Royal Institu- 
tion (as this permanent Committee was called) was empowered to establish 
one free school in each parish. In 1824 the Fabrique Act was passed. 
This authorized each Roman Catholic parish to set apart one-fourth of its 
church revenue for the support of a parish school. In 1829 the first Public 
Elementary School Act was passed. 

Dr. Meilleur, who became Superintendent of Education in 1842, was to 
Lower, what Dr. Ryerson was to Upper, Canada. The School law of 
1841, modified in 1846 and amended in 1849, is substantially the law now 
in force. It was based upon the then existing School law of the State of 
New York, to the excellencies of which Charles Mondelet bad directed 
public attention in a series of letters published during 184 1. 

In 1852, twenty-four School Inspectors were appointed to examine and 
report upon the Schools. In 1856 arrangements were made to publish a 
Journal of Education, the first number of which appeared in 1857, in 
which year Normal Schools, three in number, were opened. In January, 
i860, a Council of Public Instruction of 15 members held its first meeting. 

In 1869 an Education Act was passed by the Legislature of Quebec 
providing, inter alia,, that the Council of Public Instruction should be 
composed of 14 R. Catholics and 7 Protestants, and that the legislative 
grants for superior education should be divided proportionately to popula- 
tion between the R. Catholic and the Protestant institutions. In 1876 an 
Education Act was passed which provided that the Roman Catholic 
Bishops of the Province should be members ex officio of the Council of 
Public Instruction ; that one-third of the Council should be Protestant, 
and that the Roman Catholic and the Protestant Committee of the Council 
should have independent action in reference to all educational matters 
under their respective control In 1888 the School law was consolidated 
and several amendments introduced. 

Public instruction in Quebec comprehends five great divisions : 1st, 
Universities ; 2nd, Secondary Schools ; 3rd, Primary Schools ; 4th, Special 
Schools, and 5th, Normal Schools. McGill University, made possible 
by the bequest of Hon. James McGill in 181 1, received a Royal Charter 
in 1 82 1, and was re-organized by an amended charter in 1852. Laval 
University received a Royal Charter in 1854. Bishops' College was incor- 
porated in 1843, and was erected into a University by Royal Charter in 1852. 

The equipment for educational purposes consists of 5,196 Elementary 
Schools; 533 Model; 157 Academies; 3 Normal Schools; 23 Classical 
Colleges ; 4 Universities ; 4 Schools for Deaf Mutes and Blind ; 9 Schools 
of Arts and Manufactures, and 6 Schools of Agriculture and Dairy Schools. 

The changes which have taken place since the year of Confederation are 
seen in the following statement : — 

1867. 1895. 

No. of schools 3»907 5>903 

No. of pupils 202,837 303,619 

Contributions paid by tax-payers $1,313,149 $1,353,809 

Grants by Government $256,762 $304,410 



i68 



First Things in Canada. 



During Her Majesty's rei^pi the number of pupils has increased from 
9 in every ICX) of the population of the Province to 20 in every 100. 
School Annals of North-west Territories— The educational system of the 
North-West Territories is under the control of a Council of Public Instruc- 
tion consisting of the Executive Committee (4) and four appointed mem- 
bers without votes. The law provides that no school district shall comprise 
an area of more than 25 square miles, nor shall it contain less than foui 
resident heads of families or a smaller school population than 10 — i.e.\ 
children between the aees of 5 years and 20 years. No religious instruct 
tion is allowed in any Public School before 3 o'clock p.m., at which tim^ 
such instruction as is permitted by the Trustees may be given, parents 
having the privilege of withdrawing their children at that hour if they 
desire. Statistics lor 1896 are : 

Number of schools . . 366 

** teachers 433 

** pupils enrolled 12,796 

Teachers' salaries $172,606 

Total expenditure $274,648 

The Separate Schools number 9, with 16 teachers and 651 pupils enrolled, 
Schools PuDlic, Expenditure — The Public Schools expenditure of tbd 
Dominion and of the several Provinces per head of the population ; the 
proportion the Government grant for educational purposes bears to the 
total revenue ; and the proportion that the grants of the several Provincial 
Governments and of the people bear to the total expenditure on education, 
are : — 





Expenditure 
per head. 


Proportion of 
Govt. Grant to 
Total Revenue 


Proportion Paid by Govt, and 
by Direct Assessment. 






of Province. 


1888. 


1896. 




1888. 


1896. 


1887. 


1896. 


Govt. 


Assesst. 


Govt. 


Assesst. 


Dominion 


1.40 
2.74 
1.20 
1. 51 
1.87 

'1 


1.66 
4 15 
1-43 
1.78 
1.90 
1.46 
1.06 


p. c. 


p. c. 


p. C. 


p. C. 


p. C. 


p. C. 


B. Columbia .... 






100.00 

21.58 

33-56 

31-24 

7" 
7382 

9.25 


78.42* 
66.44 
68.76 
92.89 
26.18 
90.75 


100.00 
17.63 
39-42 
29.79 
7.00 
78.09 
10.25 




Manitoba 

New Brunswick . . 

Nova Scotia 

Ontario 

P. E. Island 

Quebec 


23.20 
21.14 
29.62 

7.62 
42.82 

4.28 


21.49 
26.06 
28.81 

7.86 
45.40 

3-93 


82.37 
60.58 
70.21 
9300 
21.91 
89.75 



School History of the Dominion— The first School History for use in all 
the Schools of Canada was issued in September, 1897. The subject was 
first mooted in 1889 ^t the Teachers' Association of the Province of Quebec. 
In 1890 it was discussed at the Teachers' Associations of Ontario, Nova 
Scotia and Prince Edward Island. In July, 1891, representatives of the 
different Provinces met in Toronto and decided in favor of the project. In 



First Things in Canada. 169 

July, 1892, at the meeting of the Dominion Educational Association in 
Montreal, announcement was made of the desire of the Association for 
such a history as wopld strike the note of the Dominion, rather than of the 
Provincial, status of Canada, so as to impress upon the minds of the pupils 
the unity of the country, thus bringing out as the central idea (he whole 
rather than the several parts of the whole. Hon. George W. Ross, Min- 
ister of Education for Ontario, was made chairman of the committee 
appointed to receive manuscripts and representatives were selected from 
the several Provinces. The sum of $2,000 was granted by the Provincial 
Governments as a prize to be offered for the best history. Fifteen manu- 
scripts were sent in. A careful study of the more meritorious contributions 
was made, with the result that a School History of- the Dominion was 
issued under authority of almost every Province and Territory. 
Seat of Goyernment — Quebec was the seat of government for Canada 
under the French. After Canada became a colony of Great Britain, 
Quebec remained the capital of the whole Province till 1791. In 1791 
Newark was made the seat of government for Upper Canada, remaining 
so until 1797, when the authorities, believing it not right that the capital 
should be within the range of the guns of a foreign power, resolved upon 
transferring the seat of government to York, now Toronto. Quebec 
remained for Lower Canada till 1838, when Montreal became the seat of 
government for Lower Canada. In 1841, on the re-union of the two 
Canadas, the Legislature was summoned to assemble at Kingston. The 
sessions of the Legislature were held in Montreal in 1844, 1845, 1846, 
1847, 1848 and 1849. The buildings in Montreal were destroyed by fire 
in the last-named year and the seat of government was removed to 
Toronto in the autumn of 1849, remaining there till the autumn of 1851, 
when it was transferred to Quebec, and remained there till the autumn of 
1855. It then returned to Toronto till 1859, when it was transferred tb 
Quebec, remaining there till the autumn of 1865. The first direct action 
towards fixing a place for the permanent seat ot government was on 24th 
March, 1857, when a resolution passed the House of Assembly of the 
Province of Canada that an address be presented to Her Majesty praying 
her to select some place as the permanent place of Government. A 
despatch from the Colonial Secretary dated 31st December, 1857, convey- 
ing Her Majesty's selection of Ottawa as the Seat of Government, was 
communicated to both Houses i6th Mar., 1858. On 17th May, 1859, 
architects were invited to prepare designs. The invitation resulted in 16 
designs for Parliamentary, and 7 for Departmental, buildings being sent in. 
The first premium for the Parliamentary buildings was awarded to Messrs. 
Fuller and Jones, and for the Departmental buildings to Messrs. Street & 
Laver. Tendeis being called for, that of Thomas McGreevy for the bulk 
sum of $348,500 for the Parliamf-ntary buildings, and that of Messrs. 
Jones, Haycock & Clarke, for $278,810 for the Departmental buildings, 
were accepted. The masonry was begun on the Parliamentary buildings 
on 26th April, i860. On ist September, i860, the Prince of Wales laid 
the corner stone of the pier immediately under the north-east angle pillar 
of the Senate chamber. The removal of the Government and public offices 
was effected in the autumn of 1865. The Legislature assembled in .Ottawa 
for the first time on 7th June, 1866. By the Union Act, 1867, Ottawa 
was made the Federal Capital of the Dominion of Canada, and the first 
Parliament met on the 6th Nov., 1867. Including the Lanpevin block 
(finished in 1889), ^^^ public buildings at Ottawa have cost $2,163,544. 



170 First Things in Canada. 

A fire on the nth February, 1897, destroyed the top story of nearly the 
' whole of the Western block. 

The seat of government for Nova Scotia was at first, both during the 
French and the English regimes, the town of Port Royal (Annapolis 
Royal). After the founding of Halifax in 1749, that city became the seat 
of government and has remained so ever since. 

New Westminster was proclaimed the Capital of the Colony of British 
Columbia in 1859, but after the union of the mainland Province and Van- 
couver Island, a proclamation dated May 25th, 1868, declared the City of 
Victoria to be the seat of government. 

Regina was named and made the seat of Government for the North- 
west Territories, Aug. 23rd, 1882, 

Winnipeg was made the seat of government for Manitoba, July 15th, 
1870. 

Fredericton was made the seat of government for New Brunswick by 
the first Governor after the separation from the Province of Nova Scotia 
in 1784. 

The Union Act, 1867, provides that " unless and until the Executive 
Government of any Province otherwise directs, the seats of government 
shall be : of Ontario, Toronto ; of Quebec, the City of Quebec ; of Nova 
Scotia, Halifax, and of New Brunswick, Fredericton." 
Seignories — First established in Canada by Cardinal Richelieu. The first 
seigneur was M. Giffard who received the grant of Beauport, came to 
Canada in 1634 and laid the foundations of the village of Beauport. The 
system was abolished in 1854, at which time the fiefs numbered 220, pos- 
sessed by 160 seigneurs arid about 72,000 rentiers. The superficial area 
of these properties was 12,822,500 acres — about one-half of which was 
under rental. 
Seigniory Mingan— In 1661 the Company of the Hundred Associates, deriv- 
ing its powers from the King of France, granted, as was contended, by way 
of lease, the whole coast cf the gulf of St. Lawrence from the Seven 
Islands to Blanc Sablon, 450 miles in length and 6 in depth, to Francois 
Bissot, Jolliet and Tachet. Like most grants of the time, this Bissot 
grant was indefinite in terms and gave vague rights to establish hunting 
and fishing stations and to take timber down the coast *' to the great bay 
towards the Esquimaux where the Spaniards usually fish." Bissot and 
his heirs and assigns held on to all they could by all means in their px)wer, 
adverse influences early making themselves felt. After the cession of New 
France to Great Britain (1763) the successors of Bissot presented them- 
selves to take the oath of fealty (foi et hommage) before the British author- 
ities, but Haldimand refused to administer it on the ground of doubt as to 
proprietorship. Afier Confederation the Province of Quebec took up the 
question of ownership and in 1890 brought an action against the Labrador 
Company, the claimants and holders of the property under and by virtue 
of the grant to Bissot. In 1892 the Privy Council of England in proper 
official form decided that the Company was entitled to the property from 
Cape Cormorant to the River Goynish — a distance of 150 miles long and 6 
miles deep. So ended a long litigation, the beginning of which was over 
200 years old. 
Shipbuilding — As early as 1723 shipbuilding was a branch of industry in 
Canada, six merchant ships and two men-of-war having been built in the 
Colony during the year. In 1752 a 74-gun ship was built at Cape 
Diamond, Quebec. In 18 10 there were 26 vessels built in the provinces, 



335 


45,766 


1,718 


247,007 


i64 


168,612 


73 


113,487 


1,051 


301,943 


342 


194,367 


3»47i 


191,080 


4,032 


244,802 


61 


3,686 


328 


23,609 


348 


35,258 


580 


84,357 


263 


21,309 


189 


",534 



First Things in Canada. 171 

having an aggr^ate of 5,836 tons. When the Dominion was created 
there were 5,693 vessels with 767,654 tons. In December, 1874, the 
registry contained 6,930 vessels with a registered tonnage of 1,158,363 
tons. In 1878 there were 7,469 vessels and 1,332,094 tons. Since that 
date the number and tonnage of ships built and owned in Canada have 
steadily decreased, owing largely to the increased substitution of iron and 
steel for wood in the construction of ships. The changes which have 
taken place in Canada are : — 

1867 1895 

No. Tons. No. Tons. 

Steamers . 

Ships. . . . 

Barks, Brigs, Brigantines. 

Schooners.. 

Sloops.. . . 

Barges. 348 

All other 263 

5,693 767,654 7,262 919,163 

Ship Channel — Between Montreal and Quebec. First agitation for, began in 
1825, In 1 83 1 Captain Bayfield, Commander Royal Navy, reported it 
problematical that any efficient means could be devised to remove the im- 
pediments in Lake St. Peter and in the river. In 1838 the Montreal 
Committee of Trade represented by petition to the Legislature that the' 
lake was so shallow as to prevent the passing of vessels drawing more than 
, 10 or 12 feet of water, and that they, the petitioners, had been assured 
that the ship channel through the lake could be deepened to 16 feet at no 
great expense. Immediately after the Union of Upper and Lower Canada 
[ (1841) the authorities ordered a survey, the result of which was the appro- 
priation by the Legislature of the sum of $284,700 for the work of deep- 
ening the channel. After many delays and the expenditure of $296,154, 
work was begun on the ** straight channel " in 1850 by the* Harbor Com- 
missioners of Montreal, who were authorized to borrow the sum of $120,000 
and to levy a tonnage duty on all vessels drawing 10 feet or more of water 
passing through the lake. Their plans necessitated excavations of 11 ^ 
miles in length. In 1855 an Act passed empowering the Commissioners 
to borrow $400,000 and to excavate a 20 feet channel. In i860 the 
channel had been deepened to 17^^ feet. The increase in trade and in the 
size of ocean steamers called for a further deepening of the channel. By 
1878 the depth was 22 feet ; by 1882 it was 25 feet, and by the end of the 
season of 1087 it was 27^ feet. In the straight part of the channel the 
dredging is from 300 to 325 feet wide, but in other parts it is 450 feet 
wide, and in the worst places the sides of the submerged canal are over 16 
feet high. The total cost of this work to 30th June, 1896, was $4,672,995, 
and the total quantity of dredged material removed amounted to about 22 
million cubic feet. Thus was Montreal — a city nearly 1,000 miles inland 
from the Atlantic Ocean and 250 miles above salt water — made a fresh- 
water port for the largest ocean-going craft. 
Ship Railway— First attempt to build a ship railway in Canada — the Chig- 
necto Isthmus ship railway, to connect the Gulf of St. Lawrence and the 
Bay of Fundy — begun in September, 1888. The weight of steel needed 
for its construction is calculated at 10,000 tons. 



172 First Things in Canada. 

Silver Mines were discovered in Acadia, 1735. So says M. de St. Ovide in a 
letter to the French Minister dated April 14th, 1735* Silver has been 
mined to a considerable extent in Canada. Ontario at one time produced 
a large amount. Silver Islet, between 1870 and 1884, yielded 3X million 
dollars ot the white metal. Quebec, since 1887, has produced a yearly 
average of $130,000 worth. British Columbia, in 1895, produced $1,105,- 
290 worth. In 1887 the value of the output was $11,937. The total 
output of Canada in 1895 was $1,158,633, against $269,489 worth in 1892. 

Simultaneous Polling^ in Dominion Elections was first incorporated in the 
Elections Act of 1871, and then applied only to the Provinces of Quebec 
and Ontario. It was extended to New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Prince 
Edward Island by Act of 1874, the exemptions being Algomi and Muskoka 
in Ontario, and Gaspe, Chicoutimi and Saguenay in Quebec. By Act of 
1888 it was provided that all the constituencies of the Dominion should, in 
the General Elections, elect representatives for the House of Commons on 
the same day, excepting Algoma in Ontario -and Cariboo in British Colum- 
bia. In 1894 the exempted districts were Algoma, Nipissing, Gaspe, 
Chicoutimi and Carilx>o. General Elections have been held for the purpose 
of electing representatives to the House of Commons — 

September 1867 June 20th 1882 

July 20th 1892 February 22nd 1887 

January 22nd 1874 March 5lh 1891 

Sept. loth 1878 June 23rd 1896 

The elections of 1867 were under the old plan, but most of them were 
held during the month of September, the proclamation calling for a new 
Parliament having been issued 6th of August, the writs bearing date 7th 
August, returnable 24th September. The General Elections of 1891 were 
the fir^t in which all the Provinces voted on the same day. 
Slavery — The first recorded sale of a slave in CSinada was at Quebec, of a 
negro boy from Madagascar, by Kirk in 1628 ; ** price, 50 half crowns/' 
In 1688 Denonville and de Champigny wrote from Quebec to King Louis 
XIV., urging that as " working people were so scarce and labour so dear 
that enterprise was paralyzed, it was advisable to allow importation of 
slaves." In 1689 a Royal mandate was prepared approving of the pro- 
posal. The Code Noir contains an ordinance of 13th November, 1705, 
making negroes moveable property. In 1709 an ordinance was issued by 
Raudot, Intendant at Quebec, ordering that negroes and Pawnee IndianN 
(Panis) should belong to the persons who bought tbcm in full proprietor- 
ship. The 47th Article of the Capitulation of Canada (Sept. 8th, 1760) 
provides that all such negroes and Panis should remain in slavery. The 
registers of births, marriages and deaths (lately described as ** hatches, 
matches, and despatches ") bear record to the existence of slavery. In 
1769 ** John, a slave," is the first entry of the baptismal records of St, 
Matthews Church, Halifax, N.S. In 1777- 1784 the Haldimand colleciion 
contains several references to slavery. Mention is made of one applicant 
living in Montreal, making application in 1778 for permission to sell a 
negro slave to pay a debt due by his master. Plato, a negro slave, asks in 
1783 for leave to join his master. John Bhck, in Quebec, a negro who 
served as seaman in His Majesty's service, prays for a passport in 1 784, 
** to protect him in his liberty, of which Captain Martin, with whose wife 
he is now serving, seeks to deprive him." In the census of 1784 slaves 
were for the first time counted as such, the number of both sexes in the 



First Things in Canada. 173^ 

Province of Canada being given at 304, of which 212 were in Montreal 
district. In March, 1788, the Montreal Court of Common Pleas had be- 
fore it a case of a claim of delivery to the plaintiff of ** 2 o^^o wenches," 
and judgment was given that the negroes should be delivered up to him. 
In 1 79 1 there were about 300 negroes, and a few Pawnees, slaves, in the 
Niagara district. In 1793 ^^^ first Parliament of the Province of Upper 
Canada passed an Act which prohibited the importation of slaves but 
confirmed the ownership in slaves then held as such. It provided, however, 
that their children should be free after 25 years of age. This Act is said 
to have been drawn up by Mr. Osgoode, Chief Justice of Upper Canada, 
in 1792. In 1796 a female slave was sold in Quebec for $icx). The 
register of St. Mark's Parish Church, Niagara, for February 5th, 1797, has 
this recorql : *' Married — Moses and Phoebe, negro slaves of Mr. Secretary 
Jarvis." In February, 1798, Charlotte, a coloured slave, claimed by her 
mistress, was released on habeas corpus by Chief Justice Sir James Monk 
at Montreal. This was followed by another case with the same result, the 
Chief Justice declaring that in his opinion slavery was ended. On the i8th 
February, 1800, the case of ** Robin, a slave," c&me up before the full 
Court of King's Bench, with the result that *' Robin "was discharged from 
custody. Peter Russell, who was administering the Government of Upper 
Canada in 1796-9, advertised the sale of two slaves in 1806. In 1790 an 
advertisement appeared in Halifax offering at public auction a negro man 
with ** other articles." In 1791, George Harding of New Brunswick sold 
his "slave Tippeo " to his son John for ;^I5 New Brunswick currency, 
and in 1852 made oath that he had so done. On February i8th, 1800, 
the Supreme Court of New Brunswick divided equally on the question 
of the legality of slavery, two of the judges being for and two against. 
In 1808 Mr. Ritchie, member for Annapolis Couhty, introduced a bill in 
the Nova Scotian Legislature to regulate negro servitude in Nova Scotia. 
It passed its second reading, but did not become law. The intention of 
the Act was to curb the negroes in their efforts for freedon» of action. On 
October i6th, 1809, a negro woman, ** Nancy," was advertised in the 
New Brunswick Gazette^ to be sold by Daniel Brown, '*and a good title 
guaranteed." Slaves were in existence in Upper Canada as late as 1830. 
The Imperial Statute of 1833 removed all remains of the system in Canada. 
boulanges Canal — The Beauhamois Canal is on the southern side of the 
j River St. Lawrence. In 1891 in accordance with the general policy to 
render these canals as safe as possible the Dominion Government resolved 
to build a Canal on the north side of the St. Lawrence, the increasing 
demand for more accommodation being an additional incentive. The 
new canal will be 14 miles long, will have 4 lift-locks, 270 by 45 feet, and 
a depth of water on the sills of 14 feet. 
St John, New Brunswick, is the oldest incorporated town in the Dominion, \ 
! having received its charter from Thomas Carleton, the first Governor of 
New Brunswick, i8th May, 1785. Previous to that date it was called ^ 
Parrtown after Governor Parr of Nova Scotia. Carleton, on the opposite 
side of the Harbour, was also made part of St. John on the same date. 
It is the ** historic city of the Loyalists of 1783," founded by 20 vessel- 
loads of men, women and children who preferred voluntary exile and a toil- 
full life rather than renounce their allegiance to the British Crown. St. 
John has the only reversible Falls in Canada. The river flows over a fall 
of 15 feet into the Harbour at low tide, but when the tide is at flood the 
current sets in the opposite direction. When it is half- tide the surface is 
smooth and navigation is unimpeded. 



174 First Things in Canada. 

St. Lawrence Canals opened for navigation, 1848. 

Speaker— The first Speaker of an elected House of Assembly in Canada was 
Robert Sanderson, elected Speaker of the House of Representatives, Nova 
Scotia, October 2nd, 1758. The first Speaker in the Legislative Assembly 
of New Brunswick was Amos Botsford, 3rd January, 1786. The firsi 
Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of Lower Canada after the separation 
was Hon. Jean A. Panet, 1792. The first Speaker of the Legislative 
Council of Lower Canada was Hon. Wm. Smith, Chief Justice. The first 
Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of Upper Canada was Hon. John 
Macdonell, one of the members for Glengarry. The first Speaker of the 
Legislative Council of Upper Canada was Chief Justice Osgoode. The 
first Speaker in Vancouver Island's Legislative Assembly was Dr. J. S. 
Helmcker, August, 1856. The first in the Assembly of British Columbia 
was James Tremble, February i6th, 1872. The first in the Legislative 
Assembly of Manitoba was Hon. Joseph Royal, 15th March, 1871. 

Speakers — The first Speaker ot the Commons of Canada after Confederation 
was Hon. J. Cockburn, and the first in the Senate was Hon* Joseph 
Cauchon. The names of the Speakers of the Senate since are : Rons. P. 
J. O. Chauveau, D. Christie, R. D. Wilmot, E. E. Botsford, Sir David 
Macpherson, Hon. Wm. Miller, J. B. Plumb, Hon. Geo. W. Allan, Hon. 
Alex. Lacoste, Hon. J. J. Ross, and Hon. C. A. P. Pelletier, C.M.G. 
(1896). The names of the Speakers in the Commons since Hon. J. Cock- 
burn are : Hons. T. W. Anglin, J. G. Blanchet, George A. Kirkpatrick, 
Hon. J. A. Ouimet, Hon. Peter White and Hon. J. D. Edgar (1897). (See 
"Deputy Speaker." 

Stages were first established between Montreal and Quebec in 172 1. The 
Intendftnt Bigon granted to M. Lanouiller the privilege for 20 years, 
imposing a tariff of charges graduated according to distance. Gameau 
says, '* the country never before had postal institutions, and has never 
been without them since." 

Stamps— Jubilee Postage Stamps were issued to the public on 19th June, 
1897, to commemorate the Diamond Jubilee of our Queen. 32,cxx3,ooo 
stamps, from %, cent to $5.00 each, were issued. 20,000,000 of these were 
3-cent stamps ; 8,000,000, i-cenl, and 2,500,000, 2-cent. No 4 cent, no 7 
and no 9-cent stamps were issued, and the denominations above 10 cents 
were 15c., 20c., 50c., $1.00, $2.00, $3.00, $4.00 and $5.00. 7,000,000 
I -cent post cards were also issued in connection with this jubilee special 
postage stamp. The plates and dies were destroyed on the loth Sept., 
1897. 

Standard Time— In 1878 Mr. (now Sir Sandford) Fleming prepared a paper 
on ** Time -reckoning, and the selection of a Prime Meridian to be common 
to all nations." It was published in the Transactions of the Canadian 
Institute, Toronto, for 1879. I" ^l^is paper the arguments in favor of a 
universal standard were fully presented. Scientific Associations in Europe 
and America uri>ed the subject upon general attention. An International 
Geographical Congress at Venice and a Geodetic Congress at Rome, in 
1881, proposed that the United States should lie invited to call a conference 
of all nations. On the night of November i8th, 1883, reckoning by the 
Standard of Greenwich was adopted by the people of Canada and the 
United States. The hands of the clocks and watches of over 50 million 
people were moved forward in order to bring them into agreement 
with the common standard ; the number of the hours being arranged 
according to the five zones, each of 15 degrees of longitude, into which 



First Things in Canada. i75 

this continent had been divided. The same principle of reckoning went 
into force throughout the Japanese Empire on January ist, 1888, It has 
since been extended to Australia %nd the greater part of Europe. With 
the adoption of standard time the hours, minutes and secords are every- 
where concurrent, and the numbers of the hours are in harmony with the 
hour zones in which localities are situated. Around the globe there are 24 
such hour zones in which the reckoning is governed by 24 equi-distant 
hour meridians numbered westward from the meridian of Greenwich. 
Standeurd Day— The President of the United States, General Arthur, at the 
request of Congress, brought the subject before the nations of the world 
and invited delegates from all countries to a Scientific Conference, which 
accordingly assembled in Washington in the autumn of 1884. Twenty-six 
nationalities were represented. The Conference resulted in the adoption 
of seven resolutions, one of which proposed that the universal standard 
day for all the world should begin at the moment of mean midnight on the 
meridian of Greenwich, the hours to be counted from I to 24. In mid- 
summer of 1886 the Canadian Pacific Railway adopted the 24 hour nota- 
tion on their western section. The Canadian Government adopted it on 
the Intercolonial Railway in 1887. In 1890 the American Society of Civil 
Engineers meeting in New York announced . that 237 replies had been 
received to a circular asking the opinion of railway managers on the adop- 
tion of the 24 hour notation. 220 concurred in the principle, but the date 
for its general adoption has not been fixed. The concurring view repre- 
sented 135,000 miles of railway. The 24 -hour notation has been in use 
for some years throughout the Indian Empire and in China, on all the 
railways constructed. It is employed for all purposes in Italy. It went 
into force in Belgium on ist May, 1897, and from the discussion at an 
International Railway Conference held December, 1896, at Vienna, there 
is every prospect of this reform being adopted before long throughout 
Europe. 

Thus, part passu^ the 24-hour notation and reckoning by one standard 
move steadily forward to the goal desired, viz.; a universal system of 
reckoning time common to the whole world. The system was in use in 
London (Eng.) at the beginning of the seventeenth century. 
Unification of Time at Sea —The Canadian Institute was probably the 
first scientific society in any part of the world to give the subject of time- 
reckoning earnest consideration. At the meetings of the society held in 
February, 1879, the questions involved were fully discussed. In May and 
July of 1879, and again in May, 1880, the Governor-General of Canada 
brought the views of the Institute before the British Government and 
through that Government before the Governments and Scientific Societies 
of Europe. 

The C)anadian Institute and the Physical Society of Toronto appointed 
a joint committee which reported April 20th, 1893, suggesting that the 
resolution of the Washington International Conference of 1884 on this 
subject should be brought before those interested, for ihe purpose of secur- 
ing their views. In accordance with the report, the question : " Is it 
desirable, all interests considered, that on and after the ist January, 1901, 
the Astronomical day should everywhere begin at mean midnight," was 
sent to Astronomers generally throughout the world. The reason of this 
reform is that there are now three differing days, (i.) The Civil day 
beginning at midnight and ending at the midnight following. (2.) The 
Astronomical day beginning at noon of the Civil day and ending at the 



tyS First Things in Canada. 

following noon. (3. ) The Nautical day which concludes at noon of the 
civil day having begun at the preceding noon. The replies received from 
the Astronomers numbered 171, of«vhich 108 were favourable, and 63 not 
favourable, to the proposal that the Astronomical day should coincide 
with the Civil day. 

On 23rd April, 1896, the Secretaries of the Canadian Institute and the 
Astronomical and Physical Society of Toronto addressed His Excellency 
the Governor General, setting forth that of 317 shipmasters to whom the 
question had been submitted, 297 had expressed themselves favourably to 
ihe unification of time at sea, so that the nautical day should coincide with 
the civil day. On January 9th, 1897, Sir Sandford Fleming, in a letter pub- 
lishetl in the London Times, states that of nearly 500 representative mas- 
ters of English and foreign steam and sailing vessels, 97 per cent, have 
declared themselves in favour of the change and that Lloyds is decidedly 
of the opinion that the change cannot come too soon. 

The Royal Society of Canada has taken a prominent part in bringing 
the subject to the atfintion of Scientific Societies and Chambers of Com- 
merce of the United Kingdom. 
Statistical Abstract and Record, first issued by Department of Agriculture, 

Ottawa, in 1886, under the administration of Hon. Mr. Carling. 
Statistics, &c., Fire and Life Insurance, Railways, Commerce, Crime, Coast- 
ing Trade, Post Office, etc. (see the several headings. ) 
Statutes of Dominion Parliament, first revised and codified. 1886. This 
codification contains the Statutes passed by the Dominion Parliament since 
Confederation, 1867, and also the Acts of the several Provinces of the 
Dominion not repealed by the Revised Statutes. 
Statute law in Canada— (i) In the periods between the conquest of the 
various Provinces and the issue of Commissions by the Crown to the 
Governors, the country was governed by martial law and military 
tribunals, with recourse to the law of the conquered people where the 
military law was wanting or the questions were outside its jurisdiction. 

{2) The second source of Canadian laws is the regular commissions and 
instructions to the Governors of the various Provinces. (3) The third 
source is the ordinances, passed and the laws enacted by the Legislatures 
and the Dominion Parlianent. 

With regard to the 2nd head, the sources are : (a) In Nova Scotia, 
Governor Cornwallis' Commission, 1749 ; (d) Quebec and Ontario (Pro- 
vince of Canada), Royal Proclamation, 1763; [c) Prince Edward Island, 
Governor Patterson's Commission of 1769; (^) New Brunswick, Governor 
Carleton's Commission, 1784 ; (e) British Columbia, Governor Blanshard's 
Commission, 1849 J (/) Manitoba, Act of Canadian Parliament, chap. 3, 
Acts of 1870. 

The first Assembly in Nova Scotia was called into being because — in 
consequence of doubts having been expressed by Chief Justice Belcher in 
1754, as to the power of the Governor of Nova Scotia under the terms of 
his commission to pass laws by means of a Council without an Assembly — 
the Lords of Trade an J Plantations referred the matter to the law officers 
of the Crown. These gave their opinion (April 29th, 1755), that the 
Governor and Council alone, under the terms of the Commission and In- 
structions, were not authorized by His Majesty to make laws till after an 
Assembly had been called. 

The ordinances and laws passed by the Legislative Assemblies are found 
in the consolidations which took place at various dates (l) Nova Scotia, 



First Things in Canada. 177 

first revised Statutes 1767. There have been 8 since, those of 1776, 1784, 
1805, 1851, 1859, 1864, 1873 and 1884. (2) New Brunswick, the first 
revision being that of 1823, followed by those of 1838, 1854 and 1877. 
(3) Prince Edward Island, the first revision was that of 1862, a concluding 
volume being published in 1868. (4) Ontario, whose first revision was in 
1843, followed by those of 1877 and 1887. (5) Manitoba, with a first 
revision in 1880, and a second in 1891. (6) British Columbia, with revisions, 
in 187 1, 1877, 1888 and 1891. (7) Province of Canada, ist revised 
Statutes 1859. (8) Dominion of Canada, first revision 1886. (9) North- 
Vrest Territories, first revision 1888. 

For interesting particulars see paper in Canada Law Jourtial^ June, 
1896, written by W. Martin Griffin, Toronto. 
Steam Commtuiication with Europe, Genesis <^;— Samuel Cunard de- 
spatched the first subsidized steamship, the Unicom^ firom Liverpool to sj 
Hali^ (his native place) and ]^oston, 1840. She arrived at Halifax on 7" 
the last day of May, having been 15 days making the passage. The ' 
Britannia was the first regular steamship of the British and North Ameri- 
can Royal Mail Steamship Co. familiarly known as the ** Cunard Line." 
She left Liverpool on the 4th July, 1840, and was 14 days, 8 hoiirs to 
Boston, including 12 hours' deviation to Halifax. The second regular 
steamer was named the Acadia^ a vessel 228 feet in length, 34 feet 4 inches 
beam, 22^ feet in depth, 425 horse power, and 1,150 tons burden. She 
made the run between Liverpool and Boston (2,755 miles) in 12 days and 
12 hours. The first four boats the Cunards used under their contract with 
the British Government were each 207 feet long. 34 feet beam, and 24.4 
feet deep, 1,155 ^ons gross and 619 tons net. They consumed 38 tons of 
coil a day, and their average speed was from 8.3 to 8.7 knots per hour. 

Major Carmichael-Sroytn, in a pamphlet published in England 59 
years ago, tells how the idea of an ocean steamship service had its origin. 
Hon. Joseph Howe, Thomas C. Haliburton (Sam Slick), and S. P. Fair- 
banks had embarked on the lo-gun brig Tyrian^ from Halifax to Liver- 
pool. While the brig was running slowly along, one fine day, the passen- 
gers saw far off io the western horizon a long trail of smoke, which, as 
they looked, seemed to be nearing them. It was not long before the tast 
advancing column of smoke resolved itself into the steamer Sirius — the 
first steam-driven vessel that ever crossed the Atlantic between Great 
Britain and New York, having left Cork for New York April 4th, 1838, 
and at the time on her return trip to Great Britain, having left New York 
on 1st May. The captain of the Tyrian^ having on board the mail bags 
and some despatches of great importance for the British Government, 
resolved to speed their arrival by transferring them to the Sirius, The 
new mode and the old met in mid-ocean. The brig's captain called 
1 through his trumpet, ** Will you take charge of Her Majesty's mail ? " 
I The steamer's captain answered, *'Yes; but be quick." The mail bags 
were hoisted rapidly up the deep waist of the brig and transferred, Mr. 
Howe, with true journalistic instinct, accompanying them to see the Sirius 
at close quarters. Naturally, on his return to the brig, the episode was 
the subject of much conversation between the three Nova Scotians and the 
gallant major, as they paced the deck day after day. "Joe" IIowc 
declared that something must be done, and that right away, or New York 
would become the. post office of the American continent. Out of the talks 
came suggestions and the conclusion that as soon as they reached London 
they would " wait upon the Colonial Minister, point out to him the neces- 



178 First Things in Canada. 

lity and importance of a steam communication from the Mother Coantry 
to her chil<fren in the west, and plead the cause of Halifax/' On landing 
at Liverpool, the three separated — two, Judge Haliburton and Mr. Howe, 
ffoing to Bristol to see the owners of the Sirius, and the other remaining 
m Liverpool to collect statistics, etc, They then hurried to London, took 
William Crane, of New Brunswick, and Samuel Cunard into their confi- 
dence, and finally succeeded in obtaining a subsidy from the British 
Government for carrying mails by steam-driven vessels between Liverpool, 
Halifax and Boston, 20 round voyages a year for 10 years, from 1S40. 
Which of the men who tried their sea-legs on the declc of the Tyrian 
suggested the plan that resulted in the establishment of the first Atlantic 
Ocean steamship line, it would be di65cult to decide. The ** Clockmaker " 
(1841) says, '* Mr. Slick, with his usual vanity, claims the honor of sug- 
gesting it as well as the Merit of having, by ar^ment and ridicule, reasoned 
and shamed the Government into its adoption." Mr. Howe merely re- 
marks, ** The major was the most enthusiastic of us all." Mr. Cunard 
always insisted that he had conceived the idea long before, and had become 
one of the owners of the Royal William in 1830 with the idea of ocean 
steam transport dominant in his mind. 

The difference between the Royal fVilliam, with its 23 days' voyage, the 
Acadia, with its 12 days 12 hours, and the Lucania, with its 5 days, 7 
hours and 23 minutes' trip, marks the advance that has been made in ocean 
steamships. It was ten years after the establishment of the Cunard Line 
before they got the passages down to 11 days. In the *' sixties," the 
Persia brought down the record to 9 days and 21 hours. In 1870 the 
Scotia made the passage in 8 days, 28 minutes. This is the first appearance 
of minutes in the reckoning. In 1875 1^* ^*^y ^f Berlin made the trip in 
7 days, 15 hours and 28 minutes. The Alaska crossed in 6 days, 18 hours 
and 37 minutes in 1882. The City of Paris was the first ** fiver," making 
the passage in 5 days, 23 hours and 10 minutes in July, 1889. '^^^ 
Lucania, m October, 1894, made the trip in the time already given. It 
took 10 years to get the trips down to 11 days ; 20 years more to get them 
down to 8 days ; 5 years more to get them down to 7 days ; 7 years to 6 
days, and 7 years to under 6 days. 
Steamer — Australia-Canada — The first steamer of this line arrived at Victoria, 
B.C., June 8th, 1893. The Miowera left Sydney, (Aust.) May, 18th; 
crossed the Equator at midday of the 27th, and arrived at Honolulu, mid- 
night, 31st. She brought mails for Canada, the United States, the United 
Kingdom and the Continent of Europe. Her dimensions were : length 
between perpendiculars, 340 feet ; over all, 360 feet ; breadth of beam, 42 
^ feet ; depth of hold, 28 feet. She carried 31 saloon, and 44 second class, 
passengers. 
Steamers — The first movement towards the steam navi^tion of the St. Law- 
rence was made by Hon. John Molson, in conjunction with David Bruce, 
- a ship-builder, and John Jackson, an engineer. The vessel built by them 
V/2& \.he Accommodation. She was but a small boat, 72 feet in length, 
with 16 feet beam, propelled by an engine, constructed by Mr. Jackson, of 
6 horse power. AH the difficulties encountered were successfiilly over- 
come, and on All Saints Eve, 1809, the steamer started on her voyage to 
Quebec. It was deemed dangerous to continue the trip after nightfall ; 
three days were consumed in the down trip of 180 miles, and four m mak- 
ing the up trip. Mr. Molson saw that the boat was too small and the 
engine of too imperfect construction to warrant a continuance. He went. 



First Things in Canada. vI79 

therefore, to England and contracted with the firm of Bolton & Watt for the 
engine of a larger boat. In l8ii the new vessel the Swift Sure was at 
work. She was 120 feet long, with a beam of 24 feet, and an engine rated 
at 28 horse power. The McUsam came next and then the Lady Shtrbrooke, 
The St. Lawrence Steam Company was firmly established and steam com- 
munication between Montreal and Quebec an assured success. The 
Accommodation was antedated by two years by Robert Fulton's steamer on 
the Hudson in 1S07. 

Steamers— First on the Ottawa River, 1819. 

Steamer — The first Lake Ontario steamer was the Frontenac^ launched in 
1817. Robert Hamilton was the pioneer, and the engine of the first boat 
was modelled after the Malsavi's engine. She was 72 feet long, 32 feet 
wide, 720 tons burden, and drew 8 feet of water. 

Steamer — ^First regular ocean steamer to Montreal was the Geneva, entered 
May nth, 1853. First screw steamer on the great lakes, 1841. First 
screw steamer from Liverpool to the St. Lawrence, 1854. 

Steamers — The Beaver was the first steamer which appeared on the north 
Pacific Coast. King William IV. and i ,600 of his subjects are reported to 
have witnessed the launch of this steamer on the Thames in 1834. She was 
built for the Hudson's Bay Company and went round Cape Horn, arriving 
at Fort Vancouver in 1835. 

The first steamer on the St. John River, N.B., was the General Smyth, 
2ist May, 1816. The St, George followed in 1825. The first on the 
Bay of Fundy to ply between St. John and Annapolis was the St. John, 
1826. The first steamer between Prince Edward Island and the mainland 
was in 1832, when communication was established by the Pocahanias, The 
first steamer on the Red River was the Pioneer, 1861. 

The Parthia arrived at Vancouver City, (B.C.) at noon, November 6th, 
1889, 13 days and 13 hours from Yokohama, making the fastest ttme on 
record to that date. She carried 1,832 tons of freight, principally tea and 
silks. 

In 1867 the steamers on the Registry Books of the Dominion numbered 
335, with a tonnage of 45,766 tons. At the end of December, 1895, Canada 
had on her registry 1,718 steamers, with a tonnage of 247,007 tons. 

Steel Steamer — The first steel steamer engaged in the Atlantic business 
between Europe and America was the Allan steamer Buenos Ayrian, 1879. 
First wholly constructed in Canada, at Deseronto, 1886. 

Steamship Service — The Dominion of Canada has been honourably connected 
with ocean steam service. The first company to build a steamer that 
crossed the ocean, driven by steam, was a Canadian company. The 
Cunard Line, originated by three Canadians, was preceded by but one 
company, the Great Western Steamship Co., as an Atlantic Ocean line. 
The Allan Line began its career as an Atlantic steam line in 1852 by the 
formation of the Montreal Ocean Steamship Company, the shareholders 
being 10 Canadian merchants. First contractors for the mail service were 
McKean, Ml:Larty & Co. The Allan Line steamers were taken off by 
the British Government for service in the Crimea, and began their regular 
fortnightly mail service in 1856. The Dominion Line was formed in 1870. 
The Canadian Pacific Steamship Line began operations in 1889 by placing 
under contract for construction the Empress of India, the Empress of 
China and the Empress of Japan, The Australia-Canada Line began 
June, 1893. 



i8o First Things in Canada. 

Steamer, Ocean — ^The first steamer from Canada to cross the Atlantic was 
the Royal William^ Captain John McDoueall. She was undoubtedly the 
first steam-driven vessel that ever crossed tne ocean. Her history is inte- 
resting. Influential men in Canada desired in 1821-24 to bring about a 
union of all the British North American Provinces. They were met with 
the objection that thf're was really no inter -provincial trade, and that union 
without trade exchanges would be futile. To overcome this objection the 
Legislature of Lower Canada authorized an expenditure of £\^^qo a year 
as a subsidy towards obtaining steam communication between Quebec and 
Halifax. The Nova Scotian Legislature responded by offering ;f 750 a 
year for the same purpose. A joint stock company was formed and called 
the ** Quebec and Halifax Navigation Company " ; 235 citizens of Quebec 
and of Halifax, in the proportion of about one-half from each city, became 
subscribers. Among them were Samuel, Henry and Joseph Cunard. The 
dimensions decided upon were : length of keel, 146 feet ; breadth of beam, 
44 feet ; depth of hold, 17 feet, 9 inches ; length of deck, 176 feet ; 1,370 
tons, builders' measurement ; 363 tons, Act of Parliament measurement. 
The vessel was built at "The Cove," Quebec, by George Black and John 
S. Campbell, during the winter of 1830-31, at a cost of ;f 16,000 She 
was launched on the 27th April, 183 1, christened in the orthodox way by 
Lady Aylmer, wife of the Governor- General of Canada, and towed up to 
Montreal, where she received her engines of about 200 horse power. 
After returning to Quebec, the Royal William started for Halifax on 24th 
August, 1 83 1, with 20 cabin and 70 steerage passengers, ** a good freight 
and 120 tons of coal." She was welcomed with great eclat 2X Halifax. 
On the nth March, 1833, she was sold to satisfy a mortgage. Anew 
company took her and sent her to Boston, where, as the first British 
steamer to arrive at that port, she was enthusiastically received. Her 
owners determined to send her to England, and she was accordingly 
despatched from Quebec on 3rd August, 1833, for London via Pictou, 
N.S. She remained in Pictou for a few days and left on the i8th August, 
arriving at Gravesend Sept. nth., having steamed the whole distance. In 
London she was sold for jif 10,000 sterling, and chartered by the Portuguese 
government to take out troops for service under Dom Pedro, then a small- 
boy Emperor of eight years of age, with two years' experience as Emperor 
of Brazil. On her return to London she was laid up at Deptford for a few 
months and then sold to the Spanish Government, which changed her 
name to the Ysabel Segunda^ and employed her as a war steamer. As 
such she was engat^ed in operations against Don Carlos in 1836, thus be- 
coming the first war steamer that ever fired a shot. In 1840 the machinery 
was u- ilized for another war steamer, and in January, i860, this one was lost 
on the coast of Algeria. The original Royal William was the first steamer 
built with a system of water-tight compartments. On the 28th June, 1895, 
Lord Aberdeen, Governor-General of Canada, placed a brass tablet in the 
wall of the corridor leading to the Library of Parliament with the following 
inscription : "In honor of the men by whose enterprise, courage and skill 
the Royal William — the first vessel to cross the Atlantic by steato power 
— was wholly constructed inXanada and navigated to England in 1833. 
The pioneer of those mighty fleets of ocean steamers by which passengers 
and merchandise of all nations are now conveyed on every sea throughout 
the world. Ordered by the Parliament of Canada, June 13-15, 1894." 
Among those present when Lord Aberdeen put the tablet in its place were 
Mr. Gustavus Wicksteed, who saw the Royal William launched and took 



First Things in Canada. i8i 

passage on her trial trip, and Mr. Horace Wicksteed, who boarded the 
^oya/ IVilliam on her arrival in England and took dinner with the captain. 

Steamship Service, Ocean, Subsidies to, were first given in 1840 by Nova 
Scotij^ and in 1856 by the Province of Canada. In 1889 an Act was 
placed upon the Statute book of the Dominion authorizing the Dominion 
Government to give a subsidy not exceeding ;f 25,000 sterling a year to 
assist in establishing an effective fortnightly steamship service between 
British Columbia and the Australian colonies and New Zealand. By the 
same Act the Government was empowered to enter into a contract to 
secure a monthly steamship service between British Columbia and China 
and Japan— the subsidy at the disposal of the Dominion Government being 
/15 000 stg. per annum. In 1.893 the Act of 1889 was amended, and the 
Canada- Australia subsidy was made i, 25,000 for an effective monthly steam 
service. The first steamer under the China-Japan subsidy was the J^artkta. 
The first steamer under the Canada- Australian agreement was the Mto- 
wera. From August, 1897, three boats, instead of two, are engaged in 
the Australia-Canada line, touching at Wellington. New South Wales 
gives ;^ 10,000 a year, and Fiji $2,000, in support of the line. 

Steam Engine— First imported into Nova Scotia, by the General Mining 
Association, 1827. In 1829 the Dartmouth and Halifax ferry boat was 
propelled by an engine of 30 horse power, but great difficulty was exper- 
ienced in getting it to work well. In 1830 a boat having an engine of 30 
horse power plied between Pictou and New Glasgow, Nova Scotia. 

Stone Inscription— Charles Roberts in his History of Canada refers to the 
Norse Rock bearing an inscription in dotted runes, which seems to point 
out the presence of the Norsemen in Canada in the nth century. This 
rock weighs about 400 pounds. The inscription records that among ^J 
those who accompanied the Thornfin Karlsefni on his expedition to 
Vineland in 1007, there was Hako, the son of Hako the Good, who 
reigned over Norway in 935. This antedates Columbus by a good many 
years. The stone is in the possession of Mr. R. N. Ryerson of Yarmouth, 

N.S. 

Another old stone inscription is one dated 1606, found in an old wall in 
in the French fort at Annapolis Royal, Nova Scotia, by Lieut. Robinson, 
a retired officer of the British Army, who gave it to the late Judge Hali- 
burton, author of ** Sam Slick," by whom it was transferred to his son, Mr. 
R. G. Haliburton. The latter loaned it to Mr. Sandford Fleming, C.M.G., 
(now Sir Sandford, K.C.M.G.) who deposited it in the Museum of the 
Canadian Institute, Toronto. 

Street Cars— First run in Toronto on Sundays, on the i6th May, 1897. 

Street Lights— Halifax was first lighted at the public expense in 1768. 

Street Lighting— Montreal was first lighted, November, 181 5, with oil 
lamps ; with gas in 1834. 

Street Railway— First used in Montreal and Toronto in 1861. 

Succession dues— The Province of Ontario, in 1892, passed an Act relating 
to duties on successions. In the same ytar the Provinces of Quebec, Nova 
Scotia and New Brunswick passed similar Acts. Manitoba passed hers in 
' 1893, and Prince Edward Island and British Columbia in 1894. The 
North- West Territories have (1896) no ordinance on the subject. The 
amounts obtained by the several Provinces in 1895 a°d 1896, were : 




i82 First Things in Canada. 

1895. 1S96. 

Ontario 298,82$ 152,553 

Quebec 162,535 163,366 

Nova Scotia 49>526 18,253 

New Brunswick 9*729 10,36$ 

Prince Edward Island 959 3,661 

Manitoba 552 91 

British Columbia 619 8,482 

Totals 522,745 356,771 

By Royal Proclamalion, October 96th, 1896, Ontario, Manitoba and 
British Columbia are under the operation of section 20 of the Imperial 
Finance Act of 1894, which provides that where Her Majesty is satisfied 
that by the law of the Colony either no duty is leviable in respect to pro- 
erty situated in the United Kingdom when passing; on death, or that the 
iw of such Cdilony as respects any duty so leviable is to the like effect as 
the foregoing provisions, then property of persons belonging to those 
colonies but situated in the United Kinedom shall be free from duties to 
be paid to the Imperial Government, when passing on death. 

Sunday School — First established in Nova Scotia was in Halifax in 1783, in 

i connection with St. Paul's Church. In 1790 ** there were distributed to 

poor children of the Sunday Schools of Halifax, 15 great coats, 64 shirts 

/ and shifts, 70 pairs of stockings, and 35 pairs of strong shoes, all of which 

cost £yy 7s. 2d." 

Walter Bromley opened a Sunday School in Halifax in 18 13, the chief 
feature of which was a large class of Blacks, both children and adults. 

Sunday School — The first one opened in Lower Canada was in Quebec. It 
was a free school established by Prince Edward in 1793. Secular subjects 
were also taught. The first Sunday School in New Brunswick was opened 
in St. John, in 1 81 2. Secular subjects were taught. Rev. Stephen 
Bamford was in charge. 

Superannuation of Members of the Civil Service— The Dominion Govern- 
ment provided a system of superannuation for its civil servants in 1870, 
based upon an abatement from the salary of each person in the Civil Service 
to whom the Act applied, of 4 per cent, per annum on the salary of $600 
and upwards, and of 2}4 per cent, when the salary was under $600, such 
abatement to be made during the first thirty-five years of service — super- 
annuation to be paid at the end of ten years' service, and to be equal to 
ten-fiftieths of the average salary of the last three years, and a further 
allowance of one-fiftieth for each additional year of service to 35 years. 
In 1872 Parliament lowered the abatement to i ji^ per cent, per annum on 
salaries under $600, and 2 per cent, on salaries of $600 and over. In 
1893 the abatement was made 3 per cent, on salaries under $600 and 3>^ 
on others, and a fund established to which the Government adds annually a 
sufficient amount to equal the value of the prospective annuities payable 
therefrom. This is called Fund No. 2. 

The receipts for Fund No. i from 1871 to June 30, 1896, amounted to 
$i,364.77i» and the expenditure to $4,364,626. The receipts for Fund 
No. 2 from employes for 1895 and 1896 amounted to $11,830. Expendi- 
ture nil. 

Supenntendents-General of Indian AiSairs. Sir William Johnson, who 
married Mollie Brant, was the first S. G. of I. A. under the English rule. 



First Things in Canada. 183 

He was succeeded by his son, Sir John Johnson, and he by Col. D. C. 
Napier. After the Union (1841) the Governors-Generars civil secretaries 
held the office of S. G. of I. A., under commission from the Imperial 
Government, to 13th October, i860. After that date the Commissioners 
of Crown Lands were S. G. of I. A. till Confederation. Since 1867 
the first S. G. of I. A. was Sir Hector L. Langevin, then Secretary of 
State for Canada. Hon. Joseph Howe and Hon. T. N. Gibbs were his 
successors. In 1873, o^ ^^^ creation of the Department of the Interior, 
the Minister of that Department was made S. G. of I. A. by Chap. 4 ; 
and the first Minister of the Interior to be S. G. of I. A. was Sir Alex. 
Campbell, July 1st, 1873. A 

Surecon-Apotnecary— The first of the profession to practise in Canada wa^^ 
Daniel Hay, Port Royal, 1606. The last census (1891) showed that there JtIl 
were 4,448 physicians and surgeons in Canada, of whom 76 were women. / ^> 
Thus for each group of 1,100 persons there is one physician. In England 
each group of 1,800 peisons has a doctor ; in Scotland each group of 1,180, 
and in Ireland each group of 1,600. Canada and Scotland are about on a 
par as to the supply of doctors. 

Survey — The first hydrographic survey of the harbour of St. John, New 
Brunswick, was made in 1761. 

Sunreyor-General — The first for Nova Scotia was David Dunbar, appointed 
1730. 

Survey — The survey of British North America was begun in 1763. The sur- 
vey of the North-West Territories was begun by the Dominion Govern- 
ment in 1870. By the end of 1895, 78,500,000 acres had been surveyed. 

Survey — A new survey of Georgian Bay and North Channel was begun by the 
Government of Canada in 1883. 

Suspension of Banks — The first chartered bank to suspend business since 
Confederation was the Commercial Bank of New Brunswick, 10th Novem- 
ber, 1868. The Bank of Acadia (Liverpool, N.S.) suspended in 1873 ; the 
Metropolitan Bank of Montreal in 1877 ; the Mechanics Bank of Montreal, 
the Consolidated Bank of Montreal, the Bank of Liverpool, N.S., and the 
Stadacona Bank of Quebec in 1879 ; the Exchange Bank of Canada in 
1883; the Maritime Bank of St. John, N.B., the Pictou Bank, the Bank 
of London, Ont., and the Central Bank of Canada retired from business in 
1887 ; the Federal Bank in 1888, and the Commercial Bank of Manitoba 
in 1893 The Banque du Peuple suspended July 15th, 1895. By 'st March, 
1897, fifty per cent of its liabilities had been paid. In all 15 banks have 
suspended representing assets of about 23 million dollars, and liabilities of 
about 16 million dollars. In nearly all cases the note holders and depositors 
have been paid in full. The revised Banking Act provides that Insolvent 
Banks shall pay their notes with 6 per cent interest per annum, and gives 
priority in payment to notes in circulation. Thus deposits payable on 
demand are liquidated with notes of the insolvent bank, which begin to 
draw interest from the date of suspension until redeemed. 

Suspension Bridge across the Niagara River first opened for railway traffic, 
8th March, 1855. It is recorded that Hon. W. H. Merritt's attention was 
first directed to the idea of a suspension bridge across Niagara River by 
reading, while at a pic-nic on its banks, a letter from his sons, travellers in 
Switzerland. Reference was therein made to a suspension bridge spanning 
the River Sarren. Mrs. Merritt, listening to her husband reading, remarked, 
** I. wonder if a suspension bridge could not be made to span this river." 

Swamp Lands, Manitpba. Under a federal Act passed in 1885, Manitoba 



i84 First Things in Canada. 

secured in final settlement of the claims of the Province on the Dominion, 
inter alia^ the right to have wholly and completely transferred to herself 
all Crown lands in the Province shown to the satisfaction of the Dominion 
Government to be swamp lands. The first transfer took place in iS86, 
when 52,600 acres were transferred. Since then other transfers have been 
made amounting, with those of 1896, to an aggregate of 855,100 acres. 

Tftrifi^ CustooiS— The Canadian Legislature was first allowed to r^ulate its 
own Customs Tariff in 1846. 

The Customs Act of 1849 for Old Canada provided for a general duty of 
12^ per cent, ad valorem upon all goods, wares and merchandise not 
otherwise charged and not enumerated on the free list. Leaving out bar 
iron and other heavy iron goods, which paid 2)^ per cent, duty, the 12^ 
per cents, covered the bulk of the importations. In 1856 the duty on 
general merchandise was raised to 15 per cent, ad val.^ and on manufac- 
tures of leather and of India rubber a duty of 20 per cent, ad val. was 
imposed. 

In 1858 the general duty was left at 15 per cent.; there were a long list 
of 20 per cents, a short list of 25 per cents, and a long list of free goods. 

The tariff of 1859 was a development of the idea embodied in that of 
1858, the principal difference being the advance of ** goods unenumerated " 
from 15 per cent, to 20 per cent. In 1866 there was a reduction of the 
general rate of duties from 20 pjer cent, to 15 per cent. 

The four Provinces of Ontario and Quebec (Canada), and Nova Scotia 
and New Brunswick were confederated ist July, 1867. In i868 the first 
Act relating to duties of customs was passed. It provided four schedules : 
(a) goods paying specific duties ; {b\ goods paying 25 per cent. ; [c\ goods 
paying 10 per cent. ; {d) goods paying 5 per cent. ; {€) goods paying ad 
valorem and specific duties, and (/) free goods. 

In 1870 the specific duties on live animals were changed to 10 per cent. 
odvaL Specific duties were imposed on certain natural products and all 
customs duties were raised 5 percent. In 187 1 the duties on natural 
products were nearly all removed and the extra one-twentieth was abol- 
ished. In 1874 the duties on unenumerated articles were raised from 15 
to 17^ per cent.; the import duties on cigars were 70 cents per pound ; 
on green and Japan tea 4 cents, on black 3 cents, and on green coflee 2 cents 
and roasted 3 cents. The customs duties on alcohol, brandy, rum, gin 
and whiskey were advanced from 80 cents to $1, and the excise duty from 
63 cents to 75 cents per gallon. The import duty on manufactured tobacco 
and snuff was increased by 5 cents specific. 

In 1877 the import duty on cigars was made 50 cents per pound and 20 
per cent, aa vat. Tea was placed — green and Japan at 6 cents and black 
at 5 cents. The import duty on refined petroleum was reduced to 6 cents 
per wine gallon, and the excise duty on the home-made abolished. 

In 1879 the protective policy was worked into the tariff—all unenume- 
rated goods being subject to 20 per cent, ad val. Changes were made in 
1887 chiefly in respect to imported iron and steel goods. In 1890 changes 
were again made, reducing duties. 

The result of the several changes is seen in the following percentage of 
duty on total value of goods entered for consumption, dutiable and free:— 

1869 12.31 per cent. 1878 14.03 per cent. 

1871 13.62 ** 1880 19.70 ** 

1875 12.83 " 1888 21.57 « 



First Things in Canada. 185 

1892 17.56 per cent. 1895 16.99 per cent. 

1893 17.38 " 1896 18.28 " 

1894 17.13 " 

The duties collected and the percentage of total duty by classes are : — 



Articles of food and animals 

Articles in a crude state which enter 
into the various proce'sses of dom 
estic industry 

Articles wholly or partially manufac- 
tured for use as materials in the 
manufactures and mechanical arts 
. Manufactured articles ready for con- 
sumption 

Articles of voluntary use, luxuries,etc. 



1877. 



$ 
3,652,149 



37,047 



855,488 

5,534,638 
2,436,245 



p. c. 
29.18 



0.30 



6.83 

44.23 
19.46 



1896. 



$ 
2,852,202 



1,043,716 



2,706,179 

9,014,003 
4,538,624 



p. c. 

14.15 



5.18 



>3.43 

34.72 
22.52 



(See ** Preferential Tariff " ; "Treaties.") 
Tax Ezemptions— First convention in Ontario to consider municipal taxation 
, generally, and exemptions from municipal taxation in particular, met in 
Toronto, November, 1889. The latest met in Toronto, September, 1897, 
I Tea — First sailing ship, with tea consigned to the C.P.R., was the ship IV, B, 
! flinty which arrived at Port Moody, 27th July, 1886. 

i Teachers Assodation (Dominion) formed July i8th, 1891. First meeting 
I held in Montreal, July, 1893. 
Teachers' Institutes — The first in Ontario was held in 1850. The Ontario 

Teachers' Associations were established in 1861. 
Teleg^raph — The semaphore telegraphic system was early in use in Canada. 
A semaphor-e was established in 1809 between Isle Vert and Quebec City 
tor the purpose of signalling vessels. 

The first telegraph wire strung in the Dominion was put up by the 
Toronto, Hamilton, Niagara aixd St. Cdtharines Telegraph Company in 
1847. It was a simple uninsulated wire. In the same year a line con- 
nected Montreal and Quebec. In 1848 Nova Scotia and New Brunswick 
1 were supplied with their first telegraphic communication. The first elec- 
I trie telegraph office in St. John, N.B., was opened in January, 1849. The 

first month's receipts were $56.00. The first proposal to Government to 
build a telegraphic line across the continent from Montreal to the Pacific 
I Ocean was made by the Atlantic and Pacific Transit Telegraph Company. 

The proposal was made to the Imperial Government and was recommended 
by the Governor General in his speech on the opening of the Session 1863. 
It was not entertained by the Canadian Legislature, because that body 
thought a post road ought to be built simultaneously with the telegraph 
line. 

The Montreal Telegraphic Company paid its first dividend on 14th 
January, 1848. On the 17th August, 1881, it agreed to an arrangement 
with the Western Union by virtue of which the latter company guaranteed 
for 97 years, 8 per cent, annual dividends. The Western Union in 1867 
leased the New Brunswick and Nova Scotia lines. The charter of the 



iS6 First Things in Canada. 

Canadian Pacific Railway Company granted in 1 88 1 conferred upon that 
Company the franchise of a telegraphic system for general business. 

When the Dominion began in 1867, there were within its borders 497 
offices, 7*227 niiles of line and 9,040 mites of wire. During the year 
600,770 messages were sent. 

For 1895 the statistics of telegraphs are : number of offices, 2,556 ; miles 

of line, 28,815 i miles of wire, 68,244 » number of messages, 4,024,300. 

Telephone — The first experimental telephone line erected in Canada was from 

the residence of Professor Grahame Bell's father, in Brantford, Ont., to 

the residence of Rev. T. Henderson, in the same city. The first working 

any distance was one set up in 1875, ^Y Professor Grahame Bell, between 

Paris and Brantford. The battery was in Tordhto, some 60 or 70 miles 

away from Paris, The first commercial telephone was established in 

Hamilton in 1877. The returns for 1895, gave 44,000 miles of wire, and 

33«50o instruments. The number of messages sent out was 72,500,000. 

Temperance in Nova Scotia — An ordinance of the Governor and Intendant 

of Louisboiirg passed on 24th July, 1733, prohibited tavern-keepers selling 

liquor to fishermen. A proclamation against retailing spirituous liquors 

(^ without licence was published in Nova Scotia on 28th August, 1749. The 

^ penalty for a first offence was an hour in the stocks and for the second 

offence twenty lashes in addition to a fine of 20 shillings. All retailers 

were forbidden to entertain any company after nine o'clock in the evening. 

In 1 75 1 an Order-in-Council prevented recovery by tavern-keepers in 
any suit under 5 shillings, and by other liquor sellers in suits for quantities 
under 3 gallons. 

In 1 761 the sale of liquors on Sunday was forbidden under a penalty of 
10 shillings fine on the seller and 5 shillings on the buyer. 

The first temperance meeting in the Province was held in October, 1827, 
in the town of Pictou. 

In 1829 the sale of intoxicating liquors to Indians was prohibited under 
a penalty of 20 shillings for each offence. 

The first Temperance Society was organized in Halifax, January, 1 831, 
and in Pictou later on in the same year. The Total Abstinence Society 
was formed in January, 1847. The Order of the Sons of Temperance was 
organized in Yarmouth, in November, 1847. 

In 1855 an Act was passed by which sale of liquor to minors entailed 
forfeiture of licence for all time. 
Temperance in New Brunswick— The first Act respecting the liquor traffic 
«^ was passed in 1 786. Temperance work on a large scale began in 1832. 

In 1847 the Sons of Temperance organized. In 1855 the first prohibitory 
liquor law was enacted, but it was repealed in 1856. The W. C. T. Union 
was introduced in 1875, ^^ Moncton. 
Temperance in Prince Edward Island— The first Governor in less than a 
month after he was sworn in (1770) brought to the notice of his Council 
""- that drinking was ** very common among the lower order of the people," 

and urged restraints on the traffic. At the first session of the general 
Assembly an Act was passed to restrict the trade and prevent its evils. 
About 1830, temperance work began to take definite form. The Sons of 
Temperance body was organized in 1848. The Good Templars were intro- 
duced in 1863, and the W. C. T. Union in 1876. 
Temperance in Quebec— A temperance meeting was held in Sillery Cove 
in 1648, in connection with the Indian School established there the year 
before. 



Tmins IN C»i&DA. 187 

In 166 1 Bbhop Laval, then Vicar Apostolic, procured the passa^^e of a 
law against supplying liquor to the Indians, the infringement of which was 
death. Within a short time, two men were shot and one flogged for trans- 
gression of the ordinance. In Frontenac's time ( 1672 et seq,) Bishop Laval 
strove earnestly to prevent the sale of spirituous liquors to the Indians, and 
crossed the ocean four times to present his views to the King of France. 

Over this question for the first, but by no means the only time, the 
Church as the conservator of morals, and the State as the agent of trade, 
met in hostile array, the good Bishop Laval and the great Governor Fron- 
tenac, as alleged, leading the opposing forces. Lavars success, it was con- 
tended, would have destroyed all trade with the Indians and transferred the 
fur trade to the Dutch and English, who ** had no scruples about supplying 
the Indians with brandy." Frontcnac's success would have nullified all 
the efforts of the church to develope morality among the Indians, and in 
fact would have destroyed the Indians themselves. AH Frontenac's splen- 
did plans of conquest were based upon the idea of alliance with the Indians. 
But without the potent aid of brandy he would have seen all his aims 
frustrated and the enemies of France triumphant. The same arguments 
that are used to-day were hurled at each other by Prelate and Governor, 
225 years ago. The degradation and final destruction of the Indians, sure 
to follow in the wake of brandy drinking, were urged by the Bishop. 
The Governor admitted the strength of the arguments, but urged that even 
if the French gave up the traffic the degradation and destruction would 
not be averted, for their commercial rivals would not give it up ; and the 
prohibition could not be effective even with the French, for the Coureurs 
de bois would carry on a clandestine trade productive of much more serious 
evils than a trade licensed under strict regulations. The conclusion of the 
controversy was that Colbert, who under the influence of the Bishop had 
prohibited the sale, yielded so far to Frontenac's arguments that in practice 
the sale was tolerated — in a word, the solution was a compromise. 

Among early documents in the Indian Department in Ottawa is one 
dated 29th May, 1680, granting lands near the Lachine rapids to the 
Jesuits for the use of the Iroquois settled there. The grant most expressly 
prohibits and forbids all persons from keeping any public house among the 
dwellings of the Indians. 

On June 9th, 1828, a Temperance meeting was held in Montreal and 30 
persons took the pledge. In 1836 the Montreal and the Quebec Tempe- 
rance Societies were formed. In 1850 the Order of the Sons of Temperance 
was introduced. The Women's Christian Temperance Union entered the 
Province in 1877 and the Royal Templars in 1883. The Dunkin Act was 
put into operation in 1864, and is still (1897) in force in one county 
(Richmond). 
Temperance in Ontario — The first legislation in Upper Canada in regard to 
spirituous liquors is contained in an Act passed in the first session of the 
first legislature, 1792. In 1793 a Licensing Act was passed. In 1801 
selling spirituous liquors to Indians was prohibited. In 1823 the first 
legislation in respect to the sale of ale, beer and cider appears. In 1828 a 
few people met to consult with the Rev. Mr. Christmas, fn Brockville, as 
to what could be done in behalf of temperance. The outcome was the 
formation of the first temperance society with a pledge, but not of teetotal- 
ism. After 1839 the pledge of total abstinence became the rule. In 1847 
the Order of the Sons of Temperance was introduced into Canada, and in 
1848 it was organized in Canada West (now Ontario), its banner being 



i88 First Things in Canada. 

first unfurled in Brockville on 2ist June, 1848. The GrancI Division was 
instituted in Brockville, I2lh April, 1849. At the first annual session, 
loth October, 1849, twenty-ihrce divisions with 1,032 members were 
reported. In 1850 the Cadets of Temperance were organized. The 
Independent Order of Good Templars was formed in 1853 at Merrickville, 
In 1858 the British American Order of Good Templars was formed and 
changed the name to Royal Templars in 1883. The W. C. T. Union was 
established in Ontario in 1874, the first Union having been organized in 
Owen Sound in that year by Mrs. R. J. Boyle. Closely allied with this 
Society is the Young Women's C. T. Union, organized at Hamilton in 
1891. 
Temperance in the North- West — The Russian Fur Company and the 
Hudson's Bay Co. agreed on the 31st December, 1843, that both companies 
would entirely abstain from selling spirituous liquors to the Indians of the 
North Pacific coast. 
Temperance Leg^islation — The first Prohibitory Liquor law passed in British 
North America was introduced and carried through the Legislature of 
New Brunswick by Hon. Mr. (afterwards Sir Leonard) Tilley, in 1855. 

The first local option prohibition law in force in the old Provinces of 
Canada (now Ontario and Quebec) was the Dunkin Act, passed in 1864. 

The first resolution prohibiting the sale of intoxicating liquors within 
the precincts of the House of Commons was passed in 1873. 

The first Committee struck by the House of Commons to report upon 
the numerous petitions which had been presented in favor of a Prohibition 
Liquor law and to collect information respecting the working of Prohibi- 
tion was appointed in 1873. 

The first Prohibitory Liquor law passed by the Dominion of Canada 
was the North-West Territories Prohibitory Act, introduced by Sir Charles 
Tupper. It became law on the 23rd May, 1875, ^^^ is Chap. 39, Acts of 
1873 ; it was continued on the Statute book by Hon. Mr. Mackenzie, 
when, in 1875, North-West legislation was consolidated. 

In 1874 a Committee of the Commons was appointed with George W. 
Ross as chairman. This Committee reported strongly favoring the enact- 
ment of a Prohibitory law, but suggesting as a preliminary that steps be 
taken to obtain information as to the working of Prohibitory Liquor laws 
in the United States. 

In 1877, Dr. Schultz moved in the Commons that "a Prohibitory 
Liquor law is the only effective remedy for the evil of intemperance, and 
that it is the duty of the Government to submit such a measure for the 
approval of Parliament at the earliest moment practicable." An amend- 
ment by Hon. Geo. W. Ross, proposing delay, question of jurisdiction 
being sub jt4dice^ carried 104 to 59. 

In 1878 the Canadian Temperance Act was passed. This Act relegated 
the power of prohibiting to Counties and Cities. 

In 1883 the Governor-General's speech on opening the session referred 
tp the fact, that the judgment of the Lords of the Judicial Committee on 
the appeal of Russell vs. The Queen, showed that Dominion legislation 
would be ttecessary to prevent the unrestrained sale of intoxicating liquors 
and to provide for the regulation of shop, saloon and tavern licenses. Sir 
John Macdonald moved that the consideration of the paragraph be refened 
to a Select Committee. This was ordered and the result was a Bill, which 
became in due course 46 Vic. , chap. 30, being the general Licensing Act 
of 1883, the purpose of which was to replace Provincial License Laws, 



First Things in Canada. • 189 

(supposed to be ultra vires of the Local Legislatures,) with a Dominion 
License Law believed to be within the power of the Federal Parliament. 

In 1884 Mr. Geo. £. Foster introduced a Prohibitory Resolution in the 
Commons, which with an amendment proposed by Hon. Thos. White, was 
carried, 140 to 122 ; the amendment being to the effect that Parliament 
would be prepared so soon as public opinion sufficiently sustains stringent 
measures to promote prohibiiion of importation, sale or manufacture of 
intoxicants for beverage purposes. 

In 1884 the Dominion Parliament passed an Act for the disposal of fines 
levied under the Canada Temperance Act, giving the same to the Munici- 
pal authorities. 

In 1885, the Supreme Court of Canada declared certain portions of the 
I^iquor License Act of .1883 and 1884 ultra vires of the Dominion Parlia- 
ment ; Parliament accordingly pissed an Act suspending the operation of 
these portions until a decision of the Privy Council of England was given. 

In 1888 an Act was pissed amending the Canada Temperance Act. 

In 1889 Mr. Jamieson moved a Prohibition resolution to which Mr. 
Wood (Brockville) moved an amendment, and Mr. Taylor an amendment 
to the amendment. At subsequent stage other amendments were moved, 
but all were negatived except Mr. Woods, which was to the effect that 
prohibition would be expedient when the public sentiment was ripe for the 
enforcement of a Prohibition. This carried, 99 to 59. 

The Canada Temperance Act was amended in 1890, chap. 27, and in 
1892, chap. 26. 

In 1892 the Dominion Government issued a Royal Commission to 
investigate and report upon the Liquor Traffic in Canada. The Commis- 
sion (Sir Joseph Hickson, Chairman) held its first public sittings to 
take evidence, in Halifax, N.S., on 25th July, 1892. An interim 
report containing the evidence taken in New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, 
Prince Edward Island and Quebec, was presented 4th June, 1894, and the 
final report with evidence taken in Ontario, Manitoba, the North-West 
Territories and British Columbia was presented 24th March, 1895. The 
scope of the Commission included : ist. The effect of the Liquor Traffic 
upon all interests affected by it in Canada ; 2nd. The measures adopted 
in Canada and other countries to lessen, regulate and prohibit the traffic ; 
3rd. The re<iults of these measures ; 4th. The effect the enactment of a 
prohibitory liquor law in Canada would have in respect of social conditions. 
Agricultural business, Indu^rial and Commercial interests ; of the revenue 
requirements, (a) of the municipalities, {b) the Provincies and {c) the 
Dominion. 5th. Itscapahility of efficient enforcement. The Commission 
held 130 public sittings for hearing witnesses numbering 1,139, whose 
testimony filled 4,528 pages. There were 56 appendices, having 66 pages 
in all ; and 293 pages of index. The Report of the Commissioners with 
appendices and indexes occupied 999 pages, making the report and 
evidences, 5,887 pages, delivered to the public in 6 volumes. The total 
cost of the Commission was $64,953. 

In 1894 Mr. Flint moved resolution in favour of Prohibition, but on 
motion the debate was adjourned, and the subject failed to be brought 
before the House in the session. 

In 1895 Mr. Flint again moved a Prohibitory Resolution, and Mr. 
Guillet moved in amendment that as there was before the Privy Council of 
England an appeal against the decision of the Supreme Court of Canada 
on the jurisdiction of the Provincial Legislatures, the further consideration 



I90 * First Things in Canada. 

of the subject be deferred until the Report of the Privy Council thereon be 
received. The amendment carried, 68 to 57. 

In 1896 Mr. Flint again moved his Prohibitory Resolution, and Mr. 
Guillet his Privy Council amendment. Mr. Mills (Bothwell) moved the 
adjournment of the debate which carried, 56 to 47, and no more was heard 
of the subject in that session. 

In 1896 an appeal went to the Privy Council of England from the Su- 
preme Court of Canada, to which latter body the following questions were 
submitted by Order-in-Council, 26th October, 1893. 

1. Has a Provincial Legislature jurisdiction to prohibit the sale within 
the Province of spirituous, fermented or other intoxicating liquors ? Supreme 
Court of Canada answered ** No." Lordships of the Privy Council refer 
to their ffnswer to the seventh question. 

2. Or has the Legislature such jurisdiction regarding such portions of 
the Province as to which the Canada Temperance Act is not in operation ? 
Supreme Court of Canada answered " No." Lords of the Privy Council 
refer to their answer to seventh question. 

3. Has a Provincial Legislature jurisdiction to prohibit the manufacture 
of such liquors within the Province ? Supreme Court of Canada answered 
" No." Lords of the Privy Council say ; ** In the absence of conflicting 
legislation by the Parliament of Canada their Lordships are of opinion that 
the Provincial legislatures would have jurisdiction to that effect, if it were 
shown that the manufacture was carried on under such circumstances and 
conditions as to make its prohibition a merely local matter in the Pro- 
vince." 

4th. Has a Provincial Legislature jurisdiction to prohibit the importa- 
tion of such liquors into the Province ? The Supreme Court of Qinada 
answered ** No." The Lords of the Privy Council say: ** Their Lordships 
answer this question in the negative. It appears to them that the exercise 
by the Provincial Legislature of such jurisdiction in the wide and • general 
terms in which it is expressed would probably treoch upon the exclusive 
authority of the Dominion Parliament. 

5. If a Provincial Legislature has not jurisdiction to prohibit sales of 
such liquors, irrespective of quantity, has such le|;islature jurisdiction to 
prohibit the sale by retail, according to the definition of a sale by retail 
either in statutes in force in the Province at the time of Confederation, or 
any other definition thereof? Supreme Court of Canada answered ** No." 
Their Lordships of the Privy Council refer to iheir answer to number 7. 

6. If a Provincial Legislature has a limited jurisdiction only as r^ards 
the prohibition of sales, has the legislature jurisdiction to prohibit sales 
subject to the limits provided by the several snb-sections of the 99th sec- 
tion of the Canada Temperance Act or any o^ them (Rev. Statutes of 
Canada, 49 Vic, C. 106, S. 99). The Supreme Court of Canada answered 
** No." Their Lordships refer to their answer to question 7. 

7. Has the Ontario Legislature jurisdiction to enact S. 18 of Ontario 
Act, 53 Vic, C. 56, intituled "An Act to improve the Liquor License 
Acts," as said section is explained by Ontario Act, 54 Vic, C. 46, intituled 
** An Act respecting local option in the matter of liquor selling "? The 
Supreme Court of Canada answered " No." Their Lordships after a full 
elucidation of the points raised say :— 

** Their Lordships for these reasons jjive a general answer to the seventh 
question in the affirmative. They are of opinion that the Ontario Legis- 
lature had jurisdiction to enact Section 18, subject to this necessary quali- 



First Things in Canada. ^191 

fication, Ihat its provisions are or will become inoperative in any district of 
the Province which has already adopted or may subsequently adopt the 
second part of the Canada Temperance Act of 18S6." 

Temperance Act, Canada — First Election under the Canada Temperance 
Act (Scott Act) was held in Fredericton, N.B., 31st October, 1878. First 
Elections were held in the other Provinces: — in Prince County, P.E.I., 
28th December, 1878 ; in Lambton, Ontario, 29th May, 1879 ; in 
Megantic, Quebec, nth September, 1879; in Marquette, Manitoba, 29th 
September, 1880, and in Digby, N.S., 8th November, 1880. 

Since the passing of the Act it has been submitted to the electors 137 
times — 3 times in 1878, 10 in 1879, 5 in 1880, 14 in 1881, 4 in 1882, 
once in 1883, 22 times in 1884, 28 times in 1885, 4 in 1886, once in 1887, 
12 times in 1888, 22 in 1889, once in 1890, twice in 1891, 3 times in 1892, 
once in 1893, twice in 1894, once in 1896, and once in 1897 (July 22nd, 

1897). 

It is in force in 28 places. It was submitted to the people four times in 
Fredericton, N.B., and carried on each occasion. Westmoreland voted on 
it four times and carried it each time by nuj ^rities of 783 in 1879, of 73 in 
1884, 776 in 1888, and of 277 in 1896. Charlottetown voted on it 6 times, 
carried it three times, rejected it the fourth, adopted it on the fifth occasion, 
and rejected it on the 6lh occasion : the majorities being, 584 (for) in 1879, 
40 (for) in 1884, and 20 (for) in 1887, 14 (against) in 1891, 22 (for) in 
1894, and 113 (against) in 1897. Lambton voted on it four times carrying 
it the first time, 1879, (majority 215) defeating it the secondj 1881, 
(majority 106) cariying it the third, 1885, (majority 2,919), and defeating 
it on the fourth, 1889, (majority against 1,330). Halton carried it on the 
first and second voting, but rejected it on the third. Stanstead sand- 
wiched a carry between two rejections. St. John City defeated it on the 
two occasions it has had the opportunity to vote on the Act. 

The Act has been submitted to the test of public opinion in nine cities, 
and 72 counties (July 31st, 1897). It is in force in one city and 27 
counties. The following is a summary of the results : — 

Carried 4 times and still in force 2 places. 

" twice ** ** 4 " 

" once ** ** 22 " 

At present, July 31st, 1897, in force 29 ** 

Defeated the first time and not submitted again . . 16 ** 

Carried the first election, but defeated the second. 30 ** 

** twice and lost twice I ** 

" once ** ** I " 

" twice ** once 2 ** 

Lost twice and not carried at all i ** 

Carried 3 times, rejected the fourth, carried the 

fifth and rejected the sixth time i ** 

Total 52 " 

The Act is in force, July 31st, 1897, in the City of Fredericton, and the 
following Counties : 



192 First Things in Canada. 

Albert, N. B. , Hants, N. S. , Prince, P. E. I. , 

Annapolis, N.S., Inverness, N.S., Queen's, N.B., 

Broroe, P.Q., Kings, N.S., Queen's, N.S., 

Cape Breton, N.S., Kings, N.B., Queen's, P.E I., 

Car!eton, N.S., Kings, P.E.I. Shelburne, N.B., 

Charlotte, N.B., Lisgar, Man., Sunbury, N.B., 

Cumberland, N.S., Marquette, Man., Westmoreland, N.B., 

Digbv, N.S., Northumberland, N.B., Yarmouth, N.S., 

Guysboro*, N. S. , Pictou, N. S. , York. N. B. 

The Canada Temperance Act is in force in 2 districts in Manitoba ; 1 1 in 
New Brunswick ; ii in Nova Scotia : 3 in Prince Edward Island, and i 
in Queliec. In the Provinces of Ontario and British Columbia the Act is 
nowhere in force. Richmond County, in Quebec, is under ihe old Dunkin 
Act of 1864. 

Timber Raft— First lumber raft in the Ottawa River left the Gatineau River 
and floated down the Ottawa River in 1806. In the eleven years 1882— 
1892, the square white pine floated down * from the Ottawa district, 
averaged, 64.414 pieces, and the pine saw-logs, 3,807,800, in number a 
year. 

Thanks of Parliament— The first person thanked by the Parliament of 
Canada since Confederation was General Middleton, 17th July, 1885. He 
was in command of the expedition to the North- West Territories in con- 
nection with the rising under Louis Riel. 

Than||[Sg;iving^ Day— 28th September, 1763, was solemnized in Halifax as a 
day of thanksgiving on account of the peace established between Great 
Britain and France. 

Theft — First civil execution in Canada, 1542, when de Roberval hanged 
Michel Gallion for theft. 

Thompson, David — Was astronomer and geographer to the Northwest Co., 
and in 1800 he entered the Rockies in latitude 5I^ He descended one of 
the branches of the Columbia River for a considerable distance, but was 
compelled by the Indians to re-cross the Rocky Mountain range. In 
1807 he went through Howe's Pass and reached the Columbia. In the 
spring of 181 1 he ascended the Columbia to its source, and on July nth 
he was at the Pacific coast, having followed the main river to its mouth. 
He was the first white man to traverse the river from source to mouth. 

Titles — The first attempts to establish an hereditary aristocracy in New France 
by France, and in Nova Scotia by England, were nearly contemporaneous. 
Cardinal Richelieu made provision for the erection in New France of 
Duchies, Marquisates, Counts, Viscounts and Barons, but began in actual 
practice with Seigniories, of whom 29 were created between 1626 and 
1663. One title, that of Baron de Longueuil, conferred in 1700 by Louis 
XIV., remains. (See ** Baronets.") In 1854 there were 220 feudal 
estates, possessed by 160 seigniors, with 72,000 rentiers, paying a ground 
rent of two sous per acres, with other dues. This seigniorial tenure was 
abolished in 1854. The Order of the Baronets of New Scotland was 
created in 1621, and in 1629 King Charles I., by Royal missive authorizdl 
" the Baronettis (of Nova Scotia) and everie one of them and their heires 
male to carry about their nekis, in all time coming, ane orange tanney silk 
ribbane, whereon shall hing perdant in a scutcheon argent, a saltoire azeur, 
thairon ane inscutcheune of the arms of Scotland with ane Imperiall 
crowne above the scutchone." (See an interesting article on this subject 
by Mr. Speaker Edgar, M. P., in the University Qtiarletly Monthiy.) 



First Things in Canada. 193 

Tides — Under the Act of 1791, hereditary titles could be conferred by the 
Sovereign upon persons called to the Legislative Councils of Upper and 
Lower Canada. No titles were ever conferred under the Act. 

Tobacco — The first mention of smoking the weed in Canada is in Cartier's 
account of his second voyage, 1535. The average annual consumption in 
Canada of tobacco, chewing and smoking and all forms, during the ten 
years 1867-76, was 2.08 pounds per head of the population. In 1877-86 
it was 2. 15 pounds and in 1887-96 it was '2. 19 pounds, showing a tendency 
to a constant increase in the quantity consumed. 

Toronto was founded, as York, in 1794, and incorporated as a city, March 
6th, 1834. The first survey of the harbour was made by Bouchette, in 

1793- 
Torrens Land System first adopted in North- West Territories, ist January, 

1887. 

Towns — The oldest town in the Dominion is Annapolis Royal, in Nova Scotia, 
founded 1605. The first fort was built on the north side of the river, •'^ 
whereas the present site is on the south side. Hence some have denied to 
Annapolis its claimed precedence. But, while the artificers were building 
the fort, the farmers were planting the crops, and they selected the neigh- 
bourhood of the present site of the town for the farm, and erected buildings 
there for the labourers. The cluster of dwellings was the town protected 
by the fort. It has been continuously occupied as a dwelling place. 
Annapolis enjoys the distinction of being the most war-scarred spot on the 
continent. It has been taken by force five times by the English : — by 
Argall in 161 3 ; by Kirk in 1628 ; by Sedgwick in 1654 ; by Phipps in 
1690, and by Nicholson in 17 10. It was by them abandoned or restored 
to the French four times : — by Argall in 161 3 ; by Treaty of St. Germain 
in 1632 ; by Treaty of Breda in 1667, and by Treaty of Ryswick in 1697. 
It was unsuccessfully attacked by the English three times ; by Church in 
1704 ; by March in 1707, and by Wainwright also in 1707. It was unsuc- 
cessfully attacked by the French and Indians twice : — in July, 1744, by 
Abbe de Loutre ; and in September, 1774, by Duvivier. It was taken, 
sacked and abandoned twice : — once by pirates in 1690 ; and once by 
United States revolutionary forces in 1781. 

Trade — Conference between Canada and Australia, proposed by Dominion 
Government, to include also consideration of Pacific Ocean Cable, 1888. 
(See ** Colonial Conference.") 

Trades and Labour Congress — First made a permanent body, in Toronto, 
Sept. 14th, 1886. Since then it has met in annual session— 

1886 Toronto 1892 Toronto 

1887 Hamilton 1893 Montreal 

1888 London 1894 Ottawa 

1889 .Montreal 1895 • • London 

1890 Ottawa 1896 Quebec 

1891 Quebec 1897 Hamilton 

It was formed for the purpose of drawing more closely together members 
of Labour organizations throughout Canada, and also for the securing of 
laws for the betterment of the condition of all classes of working men and 
women. Its functions are purely legislative, and no part is taken by it in 
industrial conflicts otherwise than by advice and moral support. The 
Congress is composed of delegates elected annually by Labour organiza- 
tions. Since its organization the Congress has done a great amount of 

13 



^ 



194 First Things in Canada. 

good by the action of its various Executive Committees in prevailing on 
the various Provincial Governments and the Federal Government to pro- 
vide laws for the improvement of the condition of wage-earners. 

Traders, English, 6rst entered the North- West in 1765. They penetrated to 
the Saskatchewan in 1767. A trading expedition under Umfreville was 
sent to the North-West in 1784. Trading posts were established in the 
North- West in 1805 and succeeding years. 

Trading Companies — The first chartered company in Canada was that formed 
by de Monts, and other merchants of Rouen, France. It was chartered 
by the King of France in 1603, to dig for minerals, to fish and to secure 
furs in the forest. The charter covered Acadia and the whole territory 
east of the line of longitude of Montreal. Cnamplain formed a company 
in 1614, to trade on the St. Lawrence, with Henry of Bourbon, one of 
the Royal Sons of France, at its head. These passed over their monopoly 
to the Huguenots, G. & £. de Caen. Richelieu turned his attention to 
French North America in 1627, and organized the Company of the 100 
Associates, the charter giving the Company possession of Canada, Acadia, 
Newfoundland and Florida *' on the tenure of fealty and homage.'* Cham- 
plain who had had his hands full looking after the previous companies was 
made one of the Associates. After a career of ups and downs, the Cent 
Associ^ on 24th February, 1663, uns^nimously resolved to restore to the 
King of France the property and lordship of New France, and in March 
following the transfer was accepted. 

The West India Company was formed in 1664, with all sorts of trading 
privileges in Canada, Acadia, Florida, Afirica, South America, and the 
West Indies. The monopoly of the fur trade granted to this Company 
excited the ire of the Canadians to whose vehement protests Colbert 
listened and changed the terms of the contract, so that the Company were 
only to receive one beaver skin in every four, and one buffalo skm in every 
twelve exported. The Company not succeeding any bt ttcr than its prede- 
cessor, its charter was revoked in 1674. 

England now took her turn at forming trading companies. The 
Labrador Company was formed in 1661, and had trading rights over the 
territory reaching from Cape Cormorant to the Straits of Belie Isle, on the 
north shore of the Gulf of St. Lawrence, 450 miles in length, and 6 miles 
in depth. When in 1890'the Government of Quebec brought suit against 
the Company to try their title, the Company succeeded in making g^xl its 
claim to a considerable portion of the estate. It is the oldest incorporated 
Company in Canada or in the world. (See " Seigniory of Mingan.") 

The next venture on the English side resulted in the formation of the 
Hudson's Bay Company with Prince Rupert at its head, chartered May 
13th, 1670, for the prosecution of trade in the Hudson Bay territory. The 
French Companies deeming the trading of the English Company an invasion 
of their rights, there was plenty of fighting, sacking of forts, etc But the 
Hudson's Bay Company held on its way, planting forts over the vast terri- 
tories included in its charter, awakening interest in the Arctic regions 
and sending explorers in every direction to learn something of the resources 
of its wide domains. Opposition came to the Company 109 years after its 
organization. In 1779 merchants of Montreal began to reach out for a 
share in the profits of the fur trade. The North -West Company of MonJ 
treal was organized with Benjamin and Joseph Frobisher and Simoq 
McTavish at the head in Montreal, and Simon Fraser, William MacGilliv- 
ray and (later) the famous Alexander Mackenzie, as ** wintering partners, ** 



First Things in Canada. 195 

remaining during winter in the fur-bearing wilderness. In the bitter trade 
rivalry that was aroused the employes of the two companies killed not only 
the beaver and the buffalo but each other, till out of the very fiercenesss 
engendered there came the desire for "peace with honour" through 
amalgamation. After a long and severe struggle on the prairies and rivers 
Xif the North- West, in the courts of Upper and Lower Canada, and in the 
Parliament of Great Britain, they came to terms and were amalgamated in 
1 82 1. Before this happened, however, the North-West Company's partner- 
ship articles expired in 1 790^ and some of the partners withdrew to form 
the X. Y. Company. So there was for a time the Hudson's Bay Company, 
the North- West C )mpany, and the X. Y. Company, over one-fourth of the 
alphabet engaged in trade hostilities, but the N. W's and X. Y.'s soon 
came together again and in 1804 the X. Y.'s were merged in the North- 
West's. In the height of their business development the Hudson's Bay 
Company and amalgamated companies employed over 3,000 men. 

Trading^ Post first established at Hochelaga in 1611. 

Trade, Boards of— (See " Boards of Trade "). 

Trade, Dominion Board of— Composed of the Montreal Corn Exchange, 
and the Boards of Trade of Montreal, Toronto, Ottawa, Belleville, Ham- 
ilton, Kingston, London, and St. John's, N.B. ; incorporated 1873. 

Trades Union Act, 1872— In consequence of the arrest, in Toronto, of 24 
men connected with the Typographical Union, under the conspiracy laws, 
because they had formed a trades union, Sir John Macdonald introduced 
and carried through Parliament two Acts to enable operatives to combine 
for the accomplishment of lawful purposes. 

Transport Business — The changes which have taken place may be seen 
from the following account of the old way of carrying on the Fur trade, 
taken from Mackenzie's Voyages : 

The orders for the goods are sent to England 25 Oct . , 1796 

Goods are shipped from England March, 1797 

They arrive in Montreal June, 1797 

Being made up, they are sent from Montreal May, 1798 

They arrive in the Indian country and are exchanged for fiu"s. Winter of 1798-99 

' Which furs come to Montreal Sept., 1799 

And are shipped toLondon, where they are sold in March ana'April,i8oo 

Treaties — Right to decide whether she shall be included in any Treaty made 

by Great Britain, first granted to Canada, 1878. 

Since that date, in every treaty Great Britain, as the Suzerain, makes, 

Canada is expressly excluded, till she expresses her willingness to accede, 

for which purpbse two years are allowed. 

Canada has declined to accede to the following Treaties of Commerce : 

Egypt, 1889 ; Ecuador, 1880 ; Greece, 1886 ; Italy, 1883 ; Japan, 1894 ; 

Mexico, 1888; Montenegro, 1882; Paraguay, 1884; Roumania, 1892; 

Salvador, 1886 ; Zanzibar, 1886. There are but two treaties to which 

Canada has become a party since 1878 — Muscat, 1892, and Uruguay, 1885. 
Treaties — Treaties affecting Canada are : (i) General, relating to boundaries ; 

(2) Commercial ; (3) Extradition. Under the first class come the following : 

Treaty of Susa 1629 

** St. Germain 1632 

** Westminster 1655 

" Breda 1667 

" Ryswick 1697 

** Utrecht 1713 



196 First Things in Canada. 

" Aix La Chapelle 1748 

** Paris 1763 

" Versaeilles 1783 

" Paris 1783 

" London (Jay's) I794 

" Ghent 1814 

" London 1815 

Arrangement (Great Lakes) 181 7 

Treaty of London 1818 

** St. Petersburgh 1825 

** Washington (Ashburton) 1842 

*« ** (Oregon) 1846 

" " (Reciprocity) 1854 

" London (Naturalization) 1870 

" Washington 1871 

" ** Behring'sSea 1892 

Convention (Boundaries) 1892 

" Washington (Behring's Sea Claims) 1896 

Under the second head (Treaties of Commerce) Canada is affected by 
the following : — 

Argentine Confederation 1825 Morocco 1856 

Austria-Hungary 1876 Muscat (Canada acceded) .... 1893 

Belgium 1862 Persia 1841 and 1857 

Bolivia 1840 Russia 1859 

Chili 1854 Sandwich Isles 1851 

Columbia 1866 Siam 1885 

Corea : 1883 South African Republic 1884 

Costa Rica* 1849 Spain 1892 

Denmark 1860-1 Sweden and Norway 1826 

Dominican Republic i860 Switzerland 1855 

France, General Treaty 1882 Tunis 1875 

** Special ** 1893 Uruguay 1885 

Germany 1865 Venezuela 1825 and 1834 

Liberia 1848 

(For Extradition Treaties see ** Extradition.") 
Treaty with France — First Treaty made under the power given to Canada in 
1884, to hold direct negotiations with foreign countries through her own 
agent, acting in conjunction with the British Ambassador. Sir Charles 
Tupper, Baronet, represented Canada, and the Marquis of Dufferin and 
Ava was his Co- Plenipotentiary. The Treaty was signed on 6th February, 

1893. Its ratification by the Canadian Parliament is in Chap. 2, Acts oi 

1894. It came into force October 14th, 1895, ^Y proclamation in the 
Canada Gazette^ October 12th, 1895. 

Treaties, Indian — The first Treaty with the North- West Indians was made in 
18 1 7, and commonly known as the Selkirk Treaties. The first Treaty bj 
the Dominion with the North-West Indians was made on 3rd August, 
1871, and included the territory on both sides of the Red River from the 
International boundary on the south to Lake Manitoba on the north. Th< 



*Excepting as to articles V., VI. and VII. which cease to have eflFect after Novembe 
26th, 1897. 



First Things in Canada. 197 

contracting parties were the Chippewa and the Swampy Cree tribes of the 
one part, and the Queen represented by Commissioner, William Simp- 
son, (holding his appointment from the Privy Council of Canada on 
the recommendation of Ifon. Joseph Howe, then Secretary of State for 
Canada) of the other part. Hon. Sir Adams Archibald, then Lieut. - 
Governor of Manitoba, was the first witness to this Treaty known as Treaty 
No. I. It was followed by Treaty No. 2 made August 21st, 1871 ; Treaty 
No. 3 made 3rd October, 1873; Treaty No. 4 made 15th September, 
1874, and Treaty No. 5 made 20th September, 1875. 

Treaties and Surrenders by the Indians— The first deed of transfer of 
land on record in the books of the Indian Department is dated Fontain- 
bleau, 29th May, 1680, and signed by Colbert, for the King. It was 
registered at the Greffe Souverain of Quebec, and conveys for a term to 
** our dear and well beloved, the ecclesiastics of the company of Jesus 
residing in La Nouvelle France," the land called the Sault near the rapids 
of St. Louis, the consideration being the desire of the King to contribute 
to the conversion and instruction of the Iroquois Indians. In all there are 
nearly 1,550 treaties and surrenders, provisional and confirmatory, under 
which lands have been transferred, in the several Provinces of the Dom- 
inion, to the Crown by the Indians, Some of the oldest ones are dated 
1 71 7, 1725, 1779, 1786, 1790, 1792. 

Treaty, Fisheries — The Dominion Government decided, April, 1890, to 
continue, for the fishing season of 1890, the modus vivendi introduced into 
the abortive Washington Treaty of 1888 as a means of carrying the pro- 
posed Treaty settlement through the fishing seasons of 1888 and 1889, so 
as to enable United States fishermen to participate in the Canadian Fish- 
eries before the Treaty itself received ratification. It was subsequently 
decided to continue the modus vivendi clause for a time, but by proclama- 
tion dated 13th November, 1895, ^^ section ceased to have effect. The 
custom of licensing American fishermen continued, however, during the 
season of 1896. (See " Fisheries." 

Treaty of Extradition — The Extradition Treaty between Great Britain and 
the United States, which went into operation April, 1890, is an enlarge- 
ment of the scope of the Treaty of 1842. The added list includes man- 
slaughter, counterfeiting, embezzlement, fraud by bail, banker or agent, 
perjury, rape, burglary, piracy, revolt on board ship, and crimes against 
the laws of both countries for the suppression of slavery and the slave trade. 

Treaty-making Power of Canada— While Sir A. T. Gait was High Com- 
missioner the intervention of the Colonial Office was done away, and the 
High Commissioner put in direct communication with the Foreign Office, 
but all overtures had to proceed through the British Minister representing 
Great Britain. Sir Charles Tupper succeeded in removing this last obstacle 
to direct negotiations, and obtained, as representative of Canada, plenipo- 
tentiary powers, as the following extract from a letter sent by the Foreign 
Office to the Colonial Office, dated July 26th, 1884, shows : 



" If the Spanish Government are favourably disposed a full power for these negotia- 
ions will be given to Sir Robert Morier and Sir Charles Tupper jointly. The actual 
negotiation would probably be conducted by Sir Charles Tupper ; but the convention, 



if concluded, must be signed by both plenipotentiaries, and be entered into between 
Her Majesty and the Kin§ of Spain, with the special object of regulating Canadian 
trade with the Spanish territories specified in the convention." 

Trinity College — The first girl graduate of Trinity University was Miss 
Helen Gregory. She was also the first woman upon whom this University 
conferred the degrees of Bachelor of Music and Bachelor of Arts. 



19S First Things in Canada. 

Trolley Track — The first between Canada and the United States is operated 
in connection with the ** Arch " bridge across the Niagara River; opened 
in September, 1897. 

Tlisinel — The first Tunnel Company incorporated by the Dominion Parliament 
was the St. Clair Frontier Tunnel Company, in 1884, for the purpose of 
building a tunnel, for railway passage, under the River St. Clair, near 
Sarnia, Ont. The actual tunnel under the river is 6,026 feet long. 
The total length of the tunnel and its approaches is 11,533 feet — over two 
miles. It is 20 feet in diameter in the clear. The cost of the tunnel 
proper was $1,460,000. There are S}4 feet of clay between the top of the 
tunnel and the bottom of the river. The weight of the tube of iron con- 
stituting the tunnel is 28,000 tons. The steel bolts and nuts that unite the 
segments and rings of iron together weigh 2,000,000 pounds. Work began 
on the cuttings January ist, 1889. On August 24th, 1890, the workooen 
from opposite ends exchanged tobacco through an auger hole bored into 
the clay between the shields. The chief engineer, Holncm, passed .through 
the enlarged hole a few hours after. An engine and car were taken through 
the tunnel on April 9th, 1891. The official opening took place September 
19th, 1891. 

Treaties witii Germany and Belg;ium— Great Britain as the Suzerain of the 
Empire agreed with Belgium in 1862, and with Germany in 1865, by 
treaty that the reciprocal roost favoured nation stipulations in the two 
treaties should apply to the colonies and other possessions of Queen 
Victoria, as well as to the British Isles. The Law Lords of England 
decided in 1894, that the inclusion of the colonies in these treaties (i) did 
not prevent differential treatment by the United Kingdom in favour of 
British colonies ; (2) that it did not prevent differential treatment by British 
colonies in favour of each other, and (3) that it did prevent differential 
treatment by the colonies of Great Britain in favour of the United King- 
dom. As since 1862 and 1865 great changes have taken place in the 
relations of the colonies to the mother country, especially the very great 
change involved in the advancement of Canada, under the Union Act of 
1867, to the status of an auxiliary kingdom, it has been for a long time felt 
in Canada that these treaties should be revised. 

In 1 88 1 the Government of Canada passed an Order in Council which 
set out the position of Canada as regards the two Treaties of Belgium and 
Germany. Sir Alexander Gait, then High Commissioner, brought the 
Order in Council to the attention of the Imperial Government, and that 
body in turn brought the matter to the notice of the governments of Belgium 
and Germany. The latter power returned answer that it would not be wise 
to revise the specific article complained of without a general revision of the 
Treaty for which in their opinion there was no good reason adduced ; while 
Belgium declined, stating that one article could not be denounced without 
the whole Treaty also being denounced. Before that date Canada had 
secured the right in 1878 to decide whether she would be included in any 
treaty Great Britain might make, a right Canada has exercised in fourteen 
different treaties. 

In 1882 (31st April) Mr. Blake moved in amendment to motion to go 
into Supply, a resolution to the effect that ( i ) Canada no longer occupying 
the position of an ordinary dependency of the Crown, numbering as she 
did 4 millions of freemen trained in the principles of constitutional govern- 
ment, and comprising one half the North American Continent and includ- 
ing seven Provinces federally united under an Imperial charter, which 



First Things in Canada. 199 

recites that her constitution is to be similiar in principle to that of the United 
Kingdom ; (2) " That it was expedient to obtain for Canada all necessary 
powers to enable Her Majesty, through her representative the Governor 
General of Canada, acting by and with the ^vice of the Queen's Privy 
Council of Canada, to enter by an agent or representative of Canada into 
direct communication with any British possession, or foreign state, for the 
purpose of negotiating commercial arrangements tending to the advantage 
of Canada, subject to the prior consent or the subsequent approval of the 
Parliament of Canada signified by Act.'* 

The position taken by the Government in 1881 and that taken by the 
Opposition, secured to Canada in 1884 t^e further right to hold direct 
negotiations with foreign countries, the High Commissioner being clothed 
in that year with plenipotentiary powers, co-ordinate with the resident 
British Ambassador, to deal with Spain for the purpose of effecting a com- 
mercial treaty, subject of course to the consent of the Queen. 

In 1889 Sir Richard Cartwright moved a resolution ** that it has become 
a matter of extreme importance to the well being of the people of this 
Dominion, that the Government and Parliament of Canada should acquire 
the power of negotiating commercial treaties with forei^ countries, and 
therefore, that an address be presented to Her Majesty, &c., concluding 
in the same words as those used by Mr. Blake. 

In 1890 the Government introduced a resolution for an address to the 
Queen, in which, after setting forth the reasons, the Parliament of Canada 
** humbly request your Majesty to take such steps as may be necessary to 
denounce and terminate provisions referred to in the treaties with the 
German ZoUverein and the Kingdom of Belgium." The address carried. 

In 1 891 Hon. D. Mills moved in amendment to the motion to go into 
Supply a resolution, that it is expedient to obtain the necessary powers to 
enable Her Majesty through Her Representative the Governor General of 
Canada, upon the advice of his Ministers to appoint an agent to negotiate 
commercial treaties with other British possessions or with toreign States, 
subject to the prior consent or subsequent approval of the Parliament of 
Canada. A debate arose and the amendment was lost. On the 25th 
April, 1892, Mr. McNeil moved, that if and when the Parliament of Great 
Britain and Ireland admits Canadian products to the markets of the United 
Kingdom upon more favourable terms than it accords to the products of 
foreign countries, the Parliament of Canada will be prepared to accord 
corresponding advantages by a substantial reduction in the duties it imposes 
upon British manufactured goods. 

Mr. Davies moved in amendment, that inasmuch as Great Britain admits 
the products of Canada into her ports free of duty, this House is of the 
opinion that the present scale of duties exacted by Canada on goods mainly 
imported from Great Britain should be reduced. The amendment was lost 
and the motion carried. 

In 1894, the Colonial Conference took place in Ottawa. New South 
Wales, Cape Colony, South Africa, New Zealand, Victoria, Queensland, 
and Canada being represented. In this Conference the Imperial Govern- 
ment was unanimously urged to denounce the treaties with Germany and 
Belgium. The Marquess of Ripon, Secretary of the Colonies in the 
Gladstone Government, took strong ground against this policy in despatches 
of June 28th, 1895. 

In 1897 the Act relating to Customs duties passed by the Parliament of 
Canada, provided that when the customs tariff of any country admits the 



200 First Things in Canada. 

products of Canada on terms which as a whole are as favourable to Canada 
as the terms offered by Canada, the products of such countries may be entered 
for duty at a rate which shall be seven-eights of the duty imposed upon 
such articles by the general tariff, till 30th luly, 1898, after which date the 
duty shall be three-fourths of the duty imposed by the general tariff. 

This action led to a renewal of the agitation (which had gradually sub- 
sided after the results of the Conference oi 1894 was known) for a denuncia- 
tion of the treaties between Great Britain and Belgium and Germany. Sir 
Wilfrid Laurier took strong ground against these treaties in his speeches 
in England during the Diamond Jubilee celebration. 

On July 30th, 1897, it was announced simultaneously from Germany 
and Belgium that both treaties had been denounced. 

During the 16 yeais of agitation for the denunciation of these treaties 
the efforts of the Government of Canada have been seconded by the 
Imperial Federation League in England and in Canada, by Sir Charles 
Tupper, Bart., as High Commissioner for Canada, and by Chambers of 
Commerce in England. Lord Salisbury, in answer to a deputation which 
waited upon him at the foreign ofHce in June, 1891, said : '* We have tried 
to find out from ofHcial records what the species of reasoning was which 
induced the statesmen of that day (1862-65) ^^ ^^S^ ^"^^ unfortunate 
pledges. We shall be glad indeed to take every opportunity for delivering 
ourselves from those uniortunate arrangements. 
The denunciation of the two treaties takes effect on 30th July, 1898. 

Uniformity of Currency first established throughout the Dominion, 1871. 

Uniformity of Weights and Measures, throughout the Dominion, first 

J provided for by Act of Canadian Parliament. Session 1873. 
ormity of Voters' Franchise first provided for by Act of Canadian Parlia- 
ment, in 1885. The contest was a long one. The Bill having been 
introduced ist March, second reading was moved i6th April, and third 
reading 3rd July. There were 29 divisions on motions and proposed 
amendments. 

Union, Maritime — Delegates first met in Charlottetown, P.E.I., ist Septem- 
ber, 1864. Proposals were made by the Province of Canada for a larger 
union, and on loth October, 1864, delegates from all the B. N. A. Provinces 
met at Quebec, to consider basis of larger union. 

Union — First legislative step towards a federal union of the Provinces of British 
North America was made by the Parliament of Nova Scotia in 1861, by 
the unanimous vote of the Assembly. 

Union of Protestants in Canada, first meeting to consider the question was 
held in Toronto, 1889. This movement was started in Canada by the 
Anglican United Synod of Montreal in 1888, the resolution embodying 
inter-denominational consolidation being moved by Rev. Dr. Langtry. 
The Methodist General Conference and the Presbyterian General Assembly 
appointed committees to confer with the Church of England delegates, 
among whom were several bishops. A second Conference took place in 
Toronto on 23rd January, 1893. Twelve Anglican and 52 other clergy- 
men representing Presbyterian, Methodist, Baptist and Congregational 
bodies were present. 

United Empire, the Evolution of ; The Constitution of England as it stood at 
the time of the discovery of America had nothing within its four corners 
providing for colonies. At first these were considered lands outside the 
limits of the realm and therefore (not being united to it) not the property 
of the realm. As the people who settled upon these lands in the regions 



First Things in Canada. 201 

external to the realm were liege subjects, the Sovereign assumed the right 
of property and government as something personal to himself and beyond 
the jurisdiction of the State as such. They were his possessions abroad, 
his foreign dominions, not yet annexed to the Crown. 

As was inevitable, a struggle took place between the Sovereign and the 
Parliament, the latter in 1643 appointing Earl of Warwick Governor-in- 
Chief of all the Plantations of America, passing laws and creating a Com- 
mittee to exercise control. When, in May, 1660, Charles the Second 
landed at Dover and the monarchy was restored, Parliament asserted that 
all his Majesty's foreign dominions were part of the realm, and then for 
the first time, in their proper capacity, interposed in the government of the 
Colonies. 

Limiting our view to the Dominion of Canada, before 1758 Nova Scotia 
was governed by the representative of the Sovereign acting under instruc- 
tions and by virtue of a commission signed by the Sovereign. He was, 
however, under the immediate authority of the Lords of Trade and Plan- 
tations General, and had to appoint a council to assist him. In the first 
instructions given to the Governor who undertook to colonize Nova Scotia 
by founding on the banks of Chebucto Bay the town of Halifax, a promise 
of a representative assembly had been inserted in order to make the colo- 
nists the more willing to cross the ocean and settle the province, up to that 
time largely in the hands of the Acadian French. This promise had been 
overlooked, and the Governor and his Council had gone on passing laws 
and regulations chiefly for the good government of the infant town strug- 
gling to get itself into shape for resistance of attacks from the Indians and 
the French, and further usefulness as the nucleus of population for the 
whole province. A very able man, Jonathan Belcher, from Massachusetts, 
was appointed Chief Justice of the rapidly developing colony in 1754 — five 
years after the founding of the Chebucto Bay settlement. To him Mr. 
Pownall, one of the officials of the Board of Trade and Plantations, com- 
municated the opinion of the Lords of T. and P. that the Governor had 
not acted in accordance with the Royal instructions in merely surrounding 
himself with a Council while ignoring the requirement of an Assembly. 
The Chief Justice took the subject up and prepared an opinion which coin- 
cided with that entertained by the Lords of T, and P. The Chief Justice's 
opinion was supported by that of the Law Lords of the Crown. After that 
there remained no course open to the Governor but to carry out the orders 
of the Lords of T. and P. These were not to his liking, and no more 
were they to the liking of his Council ; though Belcher, by virtue of his 
office being a member, was in a position to push on to completion what he 
deemed a necessary measure. However, officialdom has many ways to 
delay action ; the Lords of T. and P. were a long distance off; communi- 
cation was tedious and slow in those days of vessels with blunt bows and 
consequent small sailing capacity. From the time Pownall expressed his 
doubt to the desired consummation of the Assembly sitting and passing 
laws 52 months elapsed, during which the Lords of T. and P. gave Gov- 
ernor and Council several strongly expressed hints that there was too much 
delay in the settlement of the matter, When Nova Scotia secured the 
boon of representative institutions, the first step in advance towards the 
goal of a United Empire was taken. As she sent off her brood — Prince 
Edward Island, Cape Breton and New Brunswick — each profited by her 
struggle and received representative assemblies. Summarized, the events 
connected with the evolution of a United Empire are : 



202 First Things in Canada. 

1. No provision for colonies in the Constitution of England at the time 

of the discovery of America 1492 

2. Crown denies right of Parliament to legislate for Virginia, New Eng- 
land and Newfoundland on the ground that these regions were not yet 
annexed to the Crown -^ -ifei 

3. Parliament assumes that it has a right and Appoims the Earl of Hard- 
,wick Governor -in-Chief of aU Hie Plantations of America, with a 
Committee to vdminTster the laws passed by Parliament (without the 
oooctirrence of the Sovereign) 1643 

4. On restoration of the Monarchy, Parliament asserted that all his 
Majesty's foreign dominions were part of the realm 1660 

5. Promise made to the colonists going to Nova Scotia that a represent- 
ative Assembly would be given them 1749 

6. Mr. Jonathan Belcher appointed Chief Justice of Nova Scotia, June 
2ist 1750 

7. Mr. Pownall on behalf of the Lords of T. & P. expresses to the Chief 
Justice, the doubts of that body as to the power of the Governor and 
his Council to enact binding laws without an elected Assembly 1754 

8. The Chief Justice prepares a memo, on the subject and sends it to the 
Governor, who transmits it to the Lords of T. and P., with the state- 
ment that the legislative authority of the Governor and Council had to 
this date l)een unquestioned. January 12th 1755 

9. Lords of T. and P. refer (March 31st) the memo, of the Chief Justice 
and the despatch of the Governor to the Attorney- General and the 
Solicitor-General of England, who give their joint opinion that the 
Governor and Council of Nova Scotia have not power to enact laws 
for Nova Scotia, but must act under the authority of the commissions 
and letters of instruction ; that laws cannot be passed until an Assem- 
bly is called. April 29th 1755 

10. Governor Lawrence transmits to the Lords of T. and P., Chief Justice 
Belcher's plan for convening an Assembly. December 8th 1755 

11. Lords ot T. and P. say the ficst Assembly must consist of persons in 
trade ; yet for both electors and elected there must be landed quali- 
fication, however small. They recommend that the form of the Writ 
of Election, its execution, the election of Speaker, &c., should be 
modelled on New Hampshire. Reference should also be made to 
copy of instructions to Government of Georgia and to its minutes of 
Council. He is to guard against fixing the period of the first Assembly 
to 3 years as circumstances might require early dissolution. Long 
sessions must also be guarded against. March 25th 1756 

12. Governor and Council prepare Minute of Council to carry into effect 
the commissions and instructions and give the Province a representative 
Assembly. January 3rd 1757 

13. Lords of T. and P. inform the Governor that they have fully considered 
the plan for convening the Assembly and criticise some of the details. 
February 7th 1758 

14. Governor and Council pass a minute of Council adopting the sugges- 
tions of the Lords of T. and P. 20th March 1758 

15. Elections take place and the first House of Assembly within the 
present Dominion of Canada, meets for the first time, October 2nd . .1758 

16. Prince Edward Island separated from Nova Scotia and given repre- 
sentative institutions 1779-70 

17. Down to 1774 the public affe.irs of Canada were managed, ist by a 



First Things in Canada. 203 

Military Council, and 2nd, by a mixed Civil and Military Council. In 
1774 the Imperial Parliament for the first time intervened and passed 
the Quebec Act. This provided a Council to whom with the Governor 
was entrusted the Government of the Province, but it declared it 
inexj^edient to call an Assembly , 1774 

18. By Act of i8ih George III. (1778) the inalienable right of property 
was granted to the Colonists, the Act declaring that the King and 
Parliament of Great Britain would not impose any duty, tax or assess- 
ment on any of the colonies, provinces, or plantations in North 
America, or the West Indies, except such duties as it might be 
necessary to impose for the regulation of commerce, the net produce 
of such duties to be always paid and applied to and for the use of such 
colonies, provinces and plantations in which the same are re^>ectiv)y 
levied 1778 

19. New Brunswick separated iiriMn Nova Scotia and given representative 
iflstkaiiQn. 1784 

20. Representative institutions given to Upper and Lower Canada on their 
separation in 1791 

21. The Act of 1791 stated that there would be an Executive Council for 
the arrangement of the affairs of each Province. This is the microbe, 

the germ of Responsible Government 1791 

24. The Duke of Portland informs the Governor of Nova Scotia that in 
future all Acts of the Provincial Legislature requiring the King's assent 
are to be considered as disallowed if their confirmation be not com- 
municated within three years 1800 

23. Union Act of 1840 passed by the Imperial Parliament. *' The most 
valuable result was the admission of the all -important principle that 
the ministry advising the Governor should possess the confidence of 
the people assembled in Parliament.*^ 1840 

24. Responsible Government introduced" in all the North American Pro- 
vinces 1841-51 

25. Further development of the principle of home rule and self-government 
— Union Act of 1867 resulting in a large expansion of the powers of 
the Dominion Parliament 1867 

26. The other self-governing Colonies acquire responsible government and 
general expansion of authority to deal with local matters 

27. Canada's right to be represented in Treaty negotiations recognized — 
Treaty of Washington 1871 

28. Canada obtains right to decide whether she will be included in com- 
mercial Treaties made by the Imperial Government 1878 

29. Canada's right to negotiate treaties concerning her interests recognized 

in the case of the negotiations with Spain 1884 

30. Colonial Conference of 1887 1887 

31. Canada's right to legislate respecting criminals from other countries 
demanded for extradition, recognized 1889 

32. Commercial Treaty between Canada and France negotiated (and car- 
ried into effect by proclamation in Canada Gazette 1895) 1893 

33. Intercolonial Conference of self-governing Colonies called by Canada 
to request (inter alia) the denunciation of the Treaties of Belgium 
and Germany 1894 

34. The Congress of the Chambers of Commerce of the Empire discussed 
the subject both in the 1892 and the 1896 meetings. In 1896 the 
resolution passed was that '* this Congress is of opinion that theestab- 



ao4 First Things in Canada. 

lUhment of closer commercial relations between the United Kingdom 
and the Colonies and dependencies is an object which deserves and 
demands prompt and careful consideration ; the Congress therefore, 
respectfully represents to Her Majesty's Government that if the sug- 
gestion should be made on behalf of the Colonies, or some of them, 
it would be right and expedient to promote such consideration and the 
formation of some practical plan by summoning an Imperial Con- 
ference, thoroughly representative of the interests involved, and by 
such other means as Her Majesty may be advised to adopt 1S96 

3$. The Conference of Premiers (called to London to celebrate the Queen's 
Diamond Jubilee) of the self-governing Colonies with the Colonial 
Secretary results in the passing of a resolution the substance of which 
is, that the Premiers heartily recommend the earliest denunciation 
of the two treaties as hampering the trade relations of Great Britain 
and her Colonies with each other ; all present at the Conference agree- 
ing to take steps to improve the trade between the several parts of the 
Empire by giving a preference in the Colonies to the products of the 
United Kingdom, [uly 1897 

United Empire Loyalists first arrived in Canada from the United States in 
1783. More than 40,000 settled in the various Provinces during the years 
immediately following the Treaty of Paris, 1783. 

United Service Veterans, organized in Ottawa, August 21st, 1897. The 
objects of the Association are to preserve and strengthen the friendship 
which should exist between the soldiers, sailors and militiamen of the 
British Empire ; to assist needy comrades, widows and orphans ; to give a 
soldier's funeral to all members, and to encourage the young men of Canada 
to join the Active Militia force of the Dominion. 

University Federation, (See " School Annals of Ontario." 

University of King's College, Nova Scotia, established 1788 ; opened 1790 
and received a Royal charter in 1802. 

University of Laval, received its charter, as such, in 1854. 

University of Toronto was originally established by Royal Charter, 1827, 
under the title of King's College. The charter was amended in 1834 so as 
to do away with the original requirements that the President should be a 
clergyman of the Church of England, and that the College Council should 
also be members of the Church of England. In 1849 the name was 
changed to the University of Toronto. In 1853 the University of Toronto 
was constituted with two corporations, the University of Toronto and 
University College. In 1873 ^^ was empowered to give certificates of 
proficiency to women, and in 1884 to confer the degree of LL.D. hotwris 
causUt and to make provision for the higher education of women. 

University of Toronto— First Convocation, 1844. 

University of Toronto — First degree (of LL.D.) conferred after the accom- 
plishment (partial) of the Federation ol the Universities of Ontario was 
upon Sir John Macdonald, 1889. 

University of New Brunswick established 1800. 

Unrestricted Reciprocity— (See Commercial Union.) 

Upper Canada — Name was first used by General Murray in 1760 to designate 
the Montreal District. It was first officially applied to the territory now 
known as Ontario in 1 791. 

Vancouver Island first circumnavigated by Captain Vancouver, 1791-2. 
Vancouver Island was at first named the Island of Quadra and Vancouver. 



the first . 

ia, JuneoJ 
►ark and ^^s^^ 



First Things in Canada. 205 

The great navigator, Vancouver, was also an astute diplomat, and when a 
dispute arose between Great Britain and Spain, respecting priority of 
possession of the island, he was sent to settle it. He conferred with the 
Spanish Commissioner Don Juan Francisco de la y Bodega Quadra, 
succeeded in his mission, and to heal wounded pride named the island 
after himself and his Spanish co-commissioner. By a convention held in 
Madrid in 1794 and based upon the agreement of 1790, Spain relinquished 
her claim to Nootka Sound and with it her claims to North- West America. 

Vancouver Island first occupied by Hudson Bay Company, 1843. 

Vancouver City founded, 1886. It is a curious fact, illustrative of the recent 
founding and rapid growth of many cities in Canada, that Vancouver city 
(B.C.), Calgary, and several other cities and towns of the North-West Ter- 
ritories, are lighted with electricity without having had previous experience 
of lighting by gas. 

Verandrye left Montreal for Lake Superior with Pere Messager, the first 
missionary oi the North- West, in 1 731. 

Vessel — First vessel built in Canada was at Port Royal, Nova Scotia, 
1606. In 1607, Pontgrav^ built in the Annapolis River a bark 
a pinnace to replace those cast away. The first sea going vessels in New 
France were built in 1668, under the direction of M. Talon, the Intendant. 
The first vessel to sail on Lake Erie was the ** Griffon," built 
on Cayuga Creek, a tributary of the Niagara River, in 1679. La Salle 
aided in building her and named her m honour of Frontenac, whose 
armorial supporters were armed Griffins. In 1705 a large frigate was built 
in Nova Scotia. Alexander Henry and his associates built the first vessel 
that sailed on Lake Superior, a 40 ton sloop, in their shipyard at Point 
Aux Pins, in 1770-72. Before that date the traders used can6tes de maitre 
which carried much cargo and were paddled by fourteen or sixteen men. 
The first vessel built in New Brunswick was in 1770, and in St. John, N.B., 
in 1775. This latter was destroyed while on the stocks by rebels from 
across the line, who in turn were destroyed by a body of men from Port 
Royal. 

The first vessel built on the North Pacific Coast was a 40 ton vessel, 
built by Capt. John Meares, and launched at Nootka, in 1786. The first 
large ship built in Canada was the *' Columbus." It was built in 1826, on 
the Isle Orleans, a lumber ship, four masted, 300 feet long, 50 feet beam 
and 30 feet hold, ^^ith a measurement of 4000 tons. The arrival of this 
vessel in the River Thames excited much interest. The Duke of Clarence, 
then Lord High Admiral and afterwards King William IV., with a dis- 
tinguished company of 100 guests, was entertained on board. The 
** Columbus" was followed by the ** Baron of Renfrew " of about the same 
dimensions. These vessels were built to enable their owners to get the 
timber in free of duty, ships being then free and timber being dutiable in 
England. The first recorded European vessel to ascend the St. Lawrence 
River was the " Emerillon," Captain Jacques Cartier, September, 1535. 
The schooner ** Lily" was the first vessel to leave Lake Erie for Europe, 
November, 1848. 
Vetch, Samuel, was the first English Governor of Nova Scotia, 17 10. 

Veto Power — The first exercise of the veto power by the Dominion Govern- 
ment, on Provincial legislation, was on 17th July, 1869, when an Order- 
in-Council passed, vetoing a Bill of the Nova Scotian Legislature relating 
to the Halifax Reformatory. 



2o6 First Things in Canada. 

Victoria Bridgfe, 6rst railway bridge across the St. Lawrence, formally opened 
by the Prince cf Wales, May 25th, i860. The first stone of the bridge 
was laid on July 20th, 1854. The first Coffer Dam was ready for masonry 
on August 2nd. 1854. The bridge was open for traffic December 12th, 
1859. The first train with passengers traversed it on 17th December, 1859. 
It is 9,184 feet long, is built of iron on the tubular plan, has 23 spans of 
242 feet, with one in the centre of 330 feet, each span starting from a pier 
of solid masonry, The tube through which the track is laid is 22 feet high 
and 16 feet wide. The bridge cost $6,300,000. Robert Stephenson was 
the Engineer in charge. The bridge belongs to the Grand Trunk Railway 
system. In order to bring it up to modern requirements it has been en- 
larged and otherwise improved, the work having been done this present 
year (1897). (See also ** C. P. Railway Lachine Bridge," "Coteau 
Bridge," and ** Cantilever Bridge.") 

Victoria Hospital, established in Montreal in connection with the Queen's 
Jubilee, 1887, by Sir George Stephen, Bart., (now Lord Mount Stephen) 
and Sir Donald Smith (now Lord Strathcona and Mount Royal) who gave 
$500,000 each. 

Volunteer Force — The first attempt to form a regular force in Canada was 
in 1792 when the King authorized the raising of a regiment in each of the 
provinces and permitted them to take the title of " Royal." The first regi- 
ment to be raised was the Royal Nova Scotian Regiment, which by June 
1793 was complete. Its officers were men of considerable means and they 
served without pay. They led the way in obtaining the desired distinctive 
title as is seen in the fact that Sir John Wentworth, in Dec. 1893, returns 
thanks for the permission to use the word "Royal." About the same 
time a Royal New Brunswick and a Royal Newfoundland Regiment were 
raised. In 1794, the Regiment of Royal Canadian Volunteers was 
recruited and officered by Canadians in the provinces of UpPJ'' and 
Lower Canada. The First Battalion was largely officered by French- 
Canadian gentlemen. The Second Battalion was chiefly officered by 
Glengarry men. In 1799, Sir John Wentworth informed the Home 
Authorities that the Royal Nova Scotian Regiment had voluntarily acceded 
to a proposal that they should serve in all parts of British North America. 
As Commander-in-Chief in North America the Duke of Kent, the Queen's 
father, wrote to Major Louis de Salaberry, und#r dale Halifax, N.S.,Oct. 
1 2th, 1799:. 

** His Majesty has thought proper to make it known that he would be 
pleased if all the provincial regiments would offer to serve in all the Ameri- 
can colonies in place of being confined to the one whose name they bear. 
In consequence of accepting this offer they would be placed on the estab- 
lishment as the Fenciblesare in England and as is the Newfoundland— that 
is to say the officers would rank through all North America the same as 
they do at present in their respective provinces, and the Adjutants and 
Quartermasters would be sure of half pay in case of reduction, and the 
regiments would be commanded by officers taken from the line who would 
be proprietors. I believe it is the intention of forming a Brigade of Cana- 
dians after the manner of the 60th of which the Commander-in-Chief of 
the Troops in North America would be Colonel, as the Duke of York is 
of the 60th. The proposition has been made already to the Nova Sco- 
tian and New Brunswick Regiments and both have expressed in the most 



First Things in Canada. 207 

loyal manner their willingness to serve wherever His Majesty may think 
proper." 

Apparently the causes which led to the formation of these regiments 
ceased to be operative in 1802, probably because in October, 1801, the 
preliminary Articles of peace were signed between Great Britain and 
France. At any rate, in August and September of 1802, the several 
provincial regiments were disbanded, Governor Went worth writing on 
nth October that the men disbanded of the Royal Newfoundland and 
Royal Nova Scotian Regiments were all quietly dispersed through the 
province. The Royal New Brunswick became the 104th Regiment. 
Canada did not again have a regular permanent force of her own till 1871 
when the formation of A and B Batteries Royal Canadian Artillery ; the 
A and B Troops Royal Canadian Dragoons, and the Royal Canadian 
Regiment of Infantry gave the country the nucleus of a regular army. 

Voting by Secret Ballot— Adopted in federal elections throughout the Do- 
mmion, excepting in the Northwest Territories, 1874. 

Walking on Railway Tracks— First prohibited, under penalty, by Domi- 
nion Railway Act, 1888. 

War Subscriptions — In 1 798, subscriptions were made by the people of Nova 
Scotia in support of the war with France. Even the boys in the schools 
were seized with the war fever, for the boys in the Halifax Grammar 
School subscribed "out of their own pockets" $115.00. In 1799, ^^^ 
people of Quebec subscribed for the same purpose over $33,500. 

Washing^n Treaty of 187X — First meeting of Commissioners, February 
25th, 187 1. Under the treaty Sir John Macdonald secured inter alia the 
right for Canadians to navigate the Stickeen, the Yukon and the Porcupine 
rivers of Alaska. 

Washington Treaty — First meeting November, 1887. This treaty was 
carried by the Dominion Parliament, ratified by the Imperial Government, 
recommended by President Cleveland, but rejected by the U.S. Senate, 
1888. The negotiators were Rt. Hon. Joseph Chamberlain, Hon. Sir 
Sackville West, and Hon. Sir Charles Tupper on behalf of Great Britain 
and Canada, and Hon. W. F. Bayard, Hon. W. L. Putnam, and J. B. 
Angel on behalf of the United States. Sir Charles had the valuable serv- 
ices of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Fisheries. The Queen 
created Sir Charles Tupper a Baronet, and Hon. Mr. Thompson, the 
Minister of Justice, a Knight of the Order of St. Michael and St. George, 
to mark her satisfaction with the services performed. 

Water Pipes— First application to Legislature for permission to lay down 
water pipes was made by Montreal, 1801. 

Wawa City— The first discovery of gold in the Lake Wawa (Algoma) district 
was made known to the Crown Lands Office of Ontario at the end of 
June, 1897, when Mr. Joseph Dickenson made application for a free loca- 
tion of 40 acres, under the provisions of the Amended Mining Act of the 
Ontario Legislature (1897), by which a grant of 40 acres is made to the 
discoverer of a valuable mineral deposit situated not less than ten miles 
from the nearest known mine or deposit of the same mineral. The site 
for Wawa City was laid out on 6th September, 1897. 



2o8 First Things in Canada. 

Waterworks of Canadian Cities :— 



1 



Amherst, N.S. . . . 

Barrie 

Belleville 

Brandon 

Brockville 

Buckingham 

Chatham, O 

Charlottetown. . . . 

Cobourg 

Collingwood 

Cornwall 

Dartmouth, N.S. . 

Essex 

Farnham 

Gait 

Goderich 

Guelph 

Halifax 

Hamilton 

Hull 

Joliette 

Kentville 

Kingston 

Lachine 

Lindsay 

Longueuil 

Lunenburg 

Merriton 

Montreal ... . . 

New Glasgow 

Newmarket 

New Westminster 

Niagara Falls 

North Sydney 

Ottawa 

Owen Sound. . . , 

Palmerston 

Paris 

Picton, Ont 

Pembroke 

Peterboro' 

Port Hope 

Seaforth . . 

Springhill 

Stratford 

St. Catharines . . . 



Town 

Company 



Town. 
City.. 
Town. 
City.. 



Company . 
Town . . . . 



City. 



How Owned. 



Town 



City 

Town. ... 
Company 

Town 

Company 
Town. . . . 

City 

Town 



City 

Town 

Under construction 

City 

Town 



Company 
Town . . . , 



Under construction 

Company 

City 



When 
Built. 



1891-93 
1894 
1886 

1892-93 

1884-94 

1892-93 

1889-95 

1887 88 

1889 

1891 

1886 

1892-93 

1891 

1891 

1890 

1889 

1879-80 

1846 

1859-62 

1886 

1881 

1887-88 

1872-77 

1890 

1873 

1875 

1895 

1886 

1853 
1887 
1867 
1890-92 
1884 

1873-74 
1890 
1894 
1883 
1889 
1883 

1876 
1879 



1876 



First Things in Canada. 



209 



i~i 



St. Cunegonde . 

St. Jerome 

St. John, N.B.. 
St. lohns, P.Q. 
St. Hyacinthe. . 
St. Stephen . . . . 

Stellarion 

Sydney 

Tilsonburg . . . . 

Toronto 

Truro 

Oxbridge 

Valleyfield 

Vancouver . . . . 

Victoria 

Windsor, Ont . . 
Windsor, N.S.. 

Wingham 

Winnipeg . . . . . 
Woodstock, O. 



Town 1879 I 

*♦ 1876 

City J8 ^7- 

Town , 1 872 

" I 1876 

Company 1887 

Town 1882 



How Owned. 



When 
Built. 



Cost. 



" 1874-77 

City 1872-77 

Town i 1876 

" 1873 

" i88s 

City i887-'89 



$ 
io6,cxx) 

2I2,OCO 

1,327,421 

100,000 



33,000 

60,000 
30,000 
4,113,803 
70,500 
17,160 

87.524 



Town 1872 I 

" 1885 

" i 1879 

Company 1 

Town j 1875 



545,000 

148,342 

58,000 

10,000 

155,000 



Welland Canal — First sod turned 30th November, 1824, by Cieorge Keefer. 
First vessel through Irom Lake Ontario to Lake Erie, the '* Annie and 
Jane," November 30th, 1830. First enlargement of the Canal begun in 
1841 and completed in 1850. Second enlargement begun in 1873, com- 
pleted in 1883 to 12 feet, and in 1887 to 14 feet. 

Wellington Scholarship, King's College, Torontb. Founded by the Duke of 
Wellington with proceeds of sale of his stock in the Welland Canal, Sep- 
tember, 1828, (date of the " Iron Duke's " letter). 

Western Produce — First lot for shipment to England via Halifax, arrived in 
Halifax, 12th January, 1878. 

Wheat — The first field of wheat ever sown in Canada by the hand of white 
men was sown in Annapolis Royal in 1605. Poutrincourt says of it that 
'* it grew under the snow." And the first wheat mill was built in 1606 in 
the same place. 

Wheat, first exportation of, from Manitoba to Europe, October, 1877. 

Wheat- First trstin (16 cars) of wheat, from Manitoba to Montreal, left Port- 
age la Prairie, December, 1885. 

Wimbledon Team — Canadian Rifle Association sent representatives first time 
to Wimbledon, 1871. Bisley was adopted as the meeting place in 1890. 

Winnipeg; — the " Gateway City "—Main street graded first time in 187 1 ; in- 
corporated 1873 ; telephone established in 1881 ; lighted by gas ist June, 
1882 ; electric fire system, established in 1882. Firs»l through train by the 
C.P.R. left Montreal for Winnipeg 2nd November, 1885. Population in 
1871, 241; 1881, 7,985; 1891, 25,642. In manufacturing, Winnipeg 
had a capital invested of $691,655 in 1881, and of $3,124,367 in 1891. 
The population increased 221 per cent, in 1891 over 188 1. The output 
14 



fs" 




First Things in Canada. 

per head of manufactures increased two per cent., notwithstanding the 
great increase of population, having been $218 per bead in 1891 and $213 
in 1881. The population in 1896 is given at 31,650, and the assessed 
value of property was over 30 million dollars. 

Woman — First white woman settler in Canada was Mrs. Hubert, who landed 
in Nova Scotia in 1610. Her husband initiated the system of dyked 
lands in Nova Scotia and subsequently became the first farmer in New 
France. Her dauf^hter, Anne, was the first woman whose marriage, in 
1617, was registered in Canada. She married Etienne Jonquest, a Nor- 
man. The second daughter married Sieur Couillard. In 1691, there 
were 200 descendants of Hubert in the Colony and 900 persons were allied 
to the Huberts. River Hubert in Cumberland Co., Nova Scotia; perpe- 
tuates the memory of the first Hubert. The first white woman in New 
France was Marguerite Vienne who arrived in Quebec in 1616 with her 
husband. The first white child born in Quebec was the son of Abraham 
Martin and Margaret L'Anglois. He was christened Eustache, 24th 
May, 162 1. 

Women — The first systematic emigration of women from France to Canada 
began, under the direction of the King, in 1659. For six years, about 
200 a year were sent out. Generally in fifteen days most of the new 
arrivajs found husbands, the authorities putting upon the men such gentle 
pressure as forbidding the young fellows, who did not marry, to trade, or 
hunt, or fish, or in anyway to enter the bush. Marriages were conse- 
quently celebrated after the arrivals of ship loads, by thirties at a time. 
Rewards were offered to the men who married at eighteen years of age 
and to the women at 16 years or under. Fathers who did not marry off 
their children before they were 18 years old were fined. A pension of 300 
livres (money of the period) was offered to any one having 10 children, 
and increased to 400 livres in case of 12 children. 

Women— The first annual meeting and conference of the National Council of 
Women of Canada was held at Ottawa, April nth, 1894. There were 70 
delegates from all the principal cities of Canada, of all nationalities and 
creeds. Lady Aberdeen presided. 

Woman SufTrag^e— In 1886, New Brunswick and Ontario gave municipal 
suffrage to single woman and widows. Quebec did the same in 1893. 

Women Writers— The first novel with distinctly Canadian scenery was 
written in 1764-9, at Quebec, by a woman. Among women of Canada 
who have wielded the pen of a ready writer, are Mrs. Leprohon, Mrs. 
Traill, Mrs. Moody, Mrs. Chamberlain, Miss Fitzgibbon, Miss Mickle, 
Mrs. Curzon, Miss Machar (Fidelis), Mrs. Flarrison ( Seranus), Mrs. Edgar, 
Miss McDonnell, Mrs. Everard Cotes (Sarah Jeannelte Duncan), Miss 
Dougal, Mrs. Lawson (Miss Katzman), Mrs. Grant, Mrs. Spragge, Mrs. 
]. E. Atkinson (Madge Merton), Miss Durand, Mrs. Watkins, Faith Fen - 
ton, Mrs. Cummings, Miss Eva Brodlique, Miss Sullivan, Miss Jennings, 
Miss Barry, Miss Pauline Johnson, Miss Wetherald, Misses K. and R. 
Lizars, Mrs. Weatherbe. 

Wood Pulp (see ** Pulp.") 

Woollen Mills— The first mill was started in L'Acadie, P.Q., 1826. In 1837 
two woollen mills were in operation, one in Georgetown, Upper Canada, 
and one in Chambly, Lower Canada. These were fitted out with the 
machinery requisite to carry on the manufacture from the first to the last 
stages of the process. The census of 1891 returned 377 establishments in 
the Dominion, with a capital of $9,357,000, an output of $8,087,871, and 



DC 



First Things in Canada. 211 

wages list of $1,884,383, for the year 1890. Of these 128 had an output 
of over $2,CXK) a year each, and an annual aggregate of $68,240 ; 128 bad 
an output of from $2,000 to $12,000 each a year, and an aggregate of 
$780,627 ; 56 had an output from $12,000 to $25,000 a year each, and an 
annual aggregate of $1,032,960 ; 23 had an output trom $25,000 to 
$50,000 a year each, and an annual aggregate of $817,422 ; and 42 had an 
output of $SO,ooo and over each, and an annual aggregate of $5,388,622. 
Of these 42 large mills, Ontario had 33, with an annual aggregate output 
of $3,960,476, Of an average for each of $120,000 a year, Quebec had 7 
with an annual aggregate of $1,298,146, or an annual average per mill of 
$185,456. Nova Scotia had 2 with an annual aggregate of $130,000 or 
$65,000 a year each. 

Worship — The first public Worship in a Church in Canada was probabl 
Protestant. De Monts who brought the first ship-load of immigrants to 
Acadie, in 1604, was 'a Huguenot, and he erected the first church built in 
Canada. It is more than likely that he had the service performed accord- 
ing to his own belief. 

Wreck Regfister — The first record of casualties published by the Department 
of Marine refers to 1870. Since then down to 30th June, 1895, the casu- 
alties to vessels of all nationalities which have occurred in Canadian 
waters, and to Canadian vessels all over the world, have been 8,528, 
affecting 3,170,968 tons of shipping, causing a loss of 4,745 human lives 
and a money damage equal to $57)687,581. The largest loss of life in 
one casualty was on the first of April, 1873, when the steamer Atlantic 
was wrecked on the coast of Nova Scotia, and 545 persons perished, the 
shores and waters of Turns' Bay being covered with dead bodies. 

Yacht Club (Royal Canadian), organized in 1852. It was first known as the 
Canadian Yacht Club, with headquarters at Toronto. In August, 1854, it 
was authorized by Her Majesty to assume the title ** Royal," and in 1878 
permission was given by the Admiralty to the Club to wear the blue ensign -jfci^ 
of Her Majesty's fleet with a crown in the fly. The first club house proper '.'* 
was erected on a scow and was used until 1858. In 1889 the R. C. Y. C. ^j * 
and the Toronto Yacht Club (the latter having been in existence since ^'^^ "" 
1880) amalgamated. The Club boasts of being the largest in the world, ^ 
having a membership of 750. h "^ / 

Year Book of Canada, by A. Harvey, first published in 1867, by John 

Lowe & Co. The publication ceased in 1879. It contained a great /" .> 
amount of valuable information. '■ v 

YounsT M^s Christian Association— First meeting for formation of, in "^^^ • > 
Canada, held at Montreal, December, 1851. \:..- 

Youn^ Men's Prohibition Club formed in Toronto, October, 1886. 

Yukon Territory— The first placer mines of gold were discovered on thtf '" 
branches of the Klondyke. A white man named J. W. Carmack,.wha ^ 
worked with Dominion Land Surveyor Wm. Ogilvie, in 1887, was the first »^ ^ 
to take advantage of the rumours of gold circulated by the Indians He *•■• ' * 
located a claim on the first branch, which was named by the miners ^ 

" Bonanza Creek." Other accounts give the credit to Robert Henderson, 
who discovered the gold deposits on the Klondyke, in August, 1896. 
Mr. Ogilvie says the proper name of the river is ** Thron-dak " or 
** Duick," meaning "plenty of fish," the river being a famous salmon 
stream. * 



^^ 



212 First Things in Canada. 

The first to discover the route into the Yukoti Territory via Chilcoot 
Pass was John McKenzie, a Canadian, who in 1880 with a party of 
Canadians went down the Lewes River to Lake Lahrage. He was the 
first white man to run the White Horse Rapids, he and ** Slim Jim." The 
first while man who crossed from the Coast to the head waters ot the Lewes 
River was George Holt, 1878. On his return he reported his discovery of 
** coarse gold." The first discoverer of gold on Stewart River was a Nova 
Scotian named Fraser. 

Yukon Judicial District first established by Governor General's proclamation 
dated ** At our Government, in our City of Ottawa, in our Dominion of 
Canada," 16th August, 1897. The boundaries are described in the Pro- 
clamation published in the Canada Gazette^ August 28th, 1897. 

Yukon Land Registration District first constituted by proclamation, 29th 
July. 1897. 

Yukon River of Canada — The Yukon expedition started from Ottawa, 22nd 
April, 1887, and reached Wrangell, at the mouth of the Stikine River, on 
the 18th May. It was under the charge of George M. Dawson, of the 
Geological Survey, it was organized for the purpose — 1st, of gaining in- 
formation about the vast tract of country which forms the extreme north- 
westerly portion of the North- West Territory ; and, 2nd, of determining 
the position of the 141st degree of longitude, which there constitutes the 
\ boundary between Alaska and Canada. The region has an area nearly 
equal to that of France, three limes that of the New England States, and 
ten times that of Nova Scotia. Dr. Dawson's report of 1888, and Mr. 
Ogilvie's reports of 1889 and 1896-97, contain considerable information 
alx)ut this large tract. The Yukon River drains an area of 330,912 square 
miles. Other large and important rivers intersect the region. There is a 
total length of waters navigable for light stern-wheel steamers of at least 
1,000 miles. Gold is abundant. Drift coal has been found in many 
places, and there are immense districts abounding in game and fur-bearing 
animals. Dr. Dawson says : '* It may in fact beafiirmed, with little room 
for doubt, that the region spoken of as the Yukon district surpasses in 
material resources the whole remaining northern interior portion of the 
continent between the same parallels of latitude." 

s^ I Zoolog^icai Gardens —The first ** Zoo " on this continent was established in 
^M^ Halifax by Andrew Downs, in 1847. So says my old friend, Charley 

Ny Hal lock, in a recent numl^er of the New York Nature. Mr. Downs re- 

5 ^ ceived great encouragement from the officers of Her Majesty's Army and 
S Navy, who remembered the genial naturalist, no matter in what part of 

the world they were stationed after they had been in Halifax, and sent 
him specimens of bird and beast and reptile from many climes. Increas- 
ing age rendered it necessary for him to break up his ** Zoo " some years 
ago. 




HX VUE 




