Google 


This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world’s books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that’s often difficult to discover. 


Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book’s long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 


Usage guidelines 
Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 


public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 


We also ask that you: 


+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individual 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 


and we request that you use these files for 


+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google’s system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 


+ Maintain attribution The Google “watermark” you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 


+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can’t offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book’s appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 


About Google Book Search 


Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world’s books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 
ai[http: //books . google. com/| 


245 O174 3957 


INTRODUCTION. 


——> 4°) ae 


ELLADONNA is considered one of the most important 
drugs used in medicine. It has been said “much has been 
written, much forgotten, yet about it little is known.” 

In the preparation of this volume every authority of recog- 
nized importance has been consulted. The results reached by 
numerous workers who have studied this drug are here epito- 
mized, together with many observations never before reached. 
Contributions from the pen of the most eminent gleaners in the 
field of Materia Medica, made especially for the work, fill the 
greater portion of the book. 

The illustrations are original, and are believed to be the 
truest and best delineations ever made of belladonna. Particu- 
lar attention is invited to the colored lithograph plate which 
shows the whole plant. 

That the work may become one of utility to students, 
teachers and practitioners of pharmacy and medicine, the latest 
researches and matters of practical value have been treated at 
length. . 

The work is typical of our studies as manufacturing chem- 
ists as to the nature of drugs we handle in our laboratories. 

The great bulk of the volume has necessitated the omission 
of many important contributions and researches which we hope 
to issue at a later date. The compilation and editorial work is 
the labor of Fred. B. Kilmer. 

Our thanks are due to the many eminent contributors 
whose names appear on these pages, as well as to many others 
whose valuable assistance has enabled us to produce what we’ 
believe will be found a creditable and highly useful volume. 


JOHNSON & JOHNSON. 


od 
© 


| 
\ 


®e 
Cees 
‘ 
e 
e 
e 
e 
e 
e 
eoncee 


ww Y & 


aie: 


List of Special Contributions, Translations and Abstracts. 


Contributions. 


“The Pharmacognusy of Belladonna,” edited by HENRY KRAEMER, Ph.G.; Reporter Progress 
of Pharmacy, American Pharmaceutical Association. 


Note on “ Derivation of the Word Belladonna,’ CHARLES RICE, Ph.D., Chairman Committee 
of Revision Pharmacopoeia of the United States, 1880-1890, 1890-1900; Chemist Department 
Public Charities and Correction, New York. 


Note on “Starch of Belladonna Root,’’ EDSON S. BASTIN, Prof. of Botany and Pharmacog- 
nosy, Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. 


Notes on “Pharmacognosy of Belladonna and Revision of MSS.,” the late JOHN M. MAISCH, 
Phar. Doc., Prof. Materia Medica and Botan¥, Philadelphia College of Pharmacy; Secre- 
tary American Pharmaceutical Association. 


Note on “Insects Attacking Belladonna,” Prof. C. V. RILEY, Entomologist Department of 
Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 


Note on “Insect Attacking Belladonna Root,’ and delineation of plates, JOHN BERNHARD 
SMITH, Sc.D., Prof. Entomology Rutgers College; Entomologist New Jersey Agricultural 
Experiment Station. 


“Official Preparations of Belladonna,’’ United States Pharmacopoeia, 1880, JOSEPH P. REMING- 
TON, Ph.M., F.C.S., Prof. of Theory and Practice of Pharmacy, and Director of the Phar- 
maceutical Laboratory, Philadelphia College of Pharmacy; first Vice-Chairman Commit- 
tee of Revision and Publication Pharmacopceia, 1890-1900; Pharmaceutical Editor United 
States Dispensatory, etc., etc. By special permission from 7he Practice of Pharmacy. 


‘“‘Belladonna in the New Pharmacopeceia (1893), R. G. ECCLES, M.D., Ph.G., Committee of 
Revision, U. S. Pharmacopceia, 1890-1900; Government Chemist for Inspecting Medical 
Supplies, Department of the Interior; Official Chemist Brooklyn United Retail Grocers’ 
Association; Chairman Chemical Committee on Adulterations, New, York State Phar- 
maceutical Association; Member Executive Committee, Chemical Section, Brooklyn 
Institute. 


“Extraction of Belladonna,” revision of MSS. and notes, JOHN URI LLoyD, Prof. of Pharmacy. 
Cincinnati College of Pharmacy. 


“ Making Belladonna Plasters,’’ ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON, Manufacturing Chemist, President 
Johnson & Johnson Corporation. 


“New Reactions for Atropia” and notes, ALFRED R. L. DOHME. 


’ The Physiological Action of Belladonna,”’ H. C. Woop, M.D., L.L.D., Prof. Materia Medica 
and Therapeutics, and Clinical Professor of Diseases of the Nervous System in the Un1- 


versity of Pennsylvania. By special permission from 7herapeutics, [ts Principles and 
Practice. 


‘Local Action of Belladonna,” W.C., CALDWELL, M.D., Prof. Materia Medica, College of 
Physicians and Surgeons, Chicago, 


3 


19934 


“*Local Therapeutics of Belladonna in General Surgery,”’* RICHARD H. HaRTE, M.D., Demon- 
strator of Osteology and Syndesmology, University of Pennsylvania; Surgeon to the 
Episcopal and St. Mary’s Hospital; Consulting Surgeon to St. Timothy’s Hospital 


‘Local Therapeutics of Beliadonna in Diseases of the Skin,”* ARTHUR VAN HARLINGEN, M.D., 
Prof. of Diseases of the Skin in the Philadelphia Polyclinic and College for Graduates in 
Medicine; late Clinical Lecturer on Dermatology in Jefferson Medical College ; Derma- 
tologist in the Howard Hospital 


*‘Local Therapeutics of Belladonna in Diseases of the Ear, Nose and Throat,’’* HARRISON 
ALLEN, M.D., Consulting Physician to the Rush Hospital for Consumption ; late Surgeon 
to the Philadelphia and St. Joseph’s Hospitals. 


‘*Local Therapeutics of Belladonna in Diseases of the Eye,”* GEORGE C. HARLAN, M.D., Sur- 
geon to Will’s Eye Hospital, and to the Eye and Ear Department of the Pennsylvania 
Hospital; Emeritus Professor of Diseases of the Eye, Philadelphia Polyclinic, etc. 


“Belladonna Plasters in Diseases of the Skin,’”’ JOHN V. SHOEMAKER, A.M., M.D., Prof. of 
Materia Medica, Pharmacology, Therapeutics and Clinical Medicine, and Clinical Prof. 
of Disexses of the Skin in the Medico-Chirurgical College of Philadelphia; Physician to 
the Medico-Chirurgical Hospital, etc., etc. 


‘“*Applying Belladonna Plasters,”’ notes and suggestions, A. H. LAIDLAW, M.D., New York. 


FRED. B. KILMER, Ph.C., editorial compilation, and articles on 
** Belladonna in Pharmacy,” “Dispensing Pliasters.” 


Special Translations. 
Extra:+ts from lecture on “Emplastra,’”’ Prof Soc. RUDOLPH KoOBART, Director Pharmacologi- 
schere Institute Zu Dorpat. 


** Conclusions on Physiological Action of Belladonua,” “Cultivation of Belladonna in France,”’ 
translated from A. DORDELU, Recherches sur quelques points de ‘“l’action de la Bella- 
donne,”’ Paris, 1879. 


“Belladonna Plaster in Vomiting,’ GUENEAU DE Mussy, translated from Transactions So- 
ciety de Therapeutique, Paris, 1887. 


“The Action of Belladonna,’? ANDRE ISADORE MEURIOT, translated from “De la Methode 
Physiologique et de ses Applications a l’etude de la Belladonne,”’ Paris, 1869. 


‘‘ Names and Synonyms,’”’ PETRUS JOANNIS DARIES, translated from thesis ‘“‘ De Atropa Bella- 
donna,” Leipsig, 1776. 


Special Abstracts. 


Notes, ‘‘ Belladonna Leaves of the Market.”’ ‘‘ Belladonna Root of the Market,’’ E. R. SQUIBB, 
M.D., abstract from Ephemeris, Vol. ii. 


‘“‘Belladonna Locally as an Anti-Galactagogue,’” M. W. LEAVITT, M.D., abstract from 
Massachusetts Medical Journal. 


Tnerapeutic Index ; Notes compiled from Lcading Therapeutic Authorities. 


* By special permission from ‘“ Local Hand-Book of Therapeutics,’’ P. Blakiston, Son & Co., 
Philadelphia, Pa. : 


Belladonna Pharmacognosy. 


Historical 


Belladonna is recorded as native in both Greece and Italy, and was doubtless 
known to and described by the ancient Greek and Roman writers. According to 
Fraas (Synop. Plant. Fl. Class p. 166, 1845) the Mandragora of Theophrastus, the 
Stryknos manikos (anthos melan) of Dioscorides, and the third sort of Strychnos 
(Solanum) of Pliny, all refer to the medicinal belladonna of to-day. 

In military operations frequent use was made of the properties of belladonna. 

Sauvages says that belladonna produced 
Beco asnaceaonsoonssvsovssaccceuceuccucoecss strange and dreadful effects upon the Roman 
= Henry Kraemer, Ph.G.: soldiers during their retreat (under com- 
EDITOR, mand of Anthony) from the Parthians. They 
Department Pharmacognosy, are said to have ‘‘suffered great distress for 
R ter P § Ph want of provisions and were urged to eat 
SPOrter £ TOBTESS OF narmacy unknown plants; he that had eaten of it lost 
American Pharmaceutical As- . ; 
1 ae hjs memory and his senses, and employed 
eran ssutsussusntasensecens himself in turning about all the stones 
“ that he could find, and after vomiting up - 
bile fell down dead.” (Plutarch’s life of Anthony.) Ceesar, when encamped in 
the Pyrenees in an unfavorable ' Position, made use of a similar root to keep his 
army from starvation. 

Rudolph Camerar records : a stratagem of some soldiers who took a bottle of 
wine, poisoned with the root of belladonna, near to the camp of the enemy, 
pretending that they were on their way to their own army with a purchased or 
stolen treasure. The enemy fell upon these men, plundered them of their goods 
and hastily drank all of the wine. The first effect was a deep stupor, whereupon 
the few who had brought the wine as messengers of Atropos, fell upon them, cut 
the thread of life and sent them to their everlasting sleep. Shakespeare is be- 
lieved to refer to the root when he makes Banquo ask: 


e008 


‘¢Or have we eaten of the insane root 
That takes the reason prisoner?” 


Ainslie (Mat. Ind. 1,240) states that belladonna was well known to the 
Arabians and Persians, but that he has never met with itin India. Theophrastus 
and others have spoken of the potsonous properties of the Mandragora. The 
true Mandragora, though quite different in appearance, is very similar in its ac- 
tion to belladonna. It was called mandrake and employed anciently by pre- 
tending magicians and false sorcerers to produce mental hallucinations. 
Buchanus (Rerum Scot. History, 162) says ‘‘that the destruction of the Danish 
army under Sweno, when he invaded Scotland, was due to the intoxicating 
qualities of the berries of this plant which the Scots mixed with the drink they 
were obliged to furnish the invaders. While the Danish soldiers lay under its 
soporific influence the Scotch fell upon and destroyed them. 


5 


Saladanus of Ascoh (Comp. Arom. 1488) makes the earliest reference to bella- 
donna among writers on medicinal plants. According to Fliickiger and Hanbury,” 
the first certain reference is in the Grand Herbier printed at Paris about 1504. 
‘The plant is mentioned (Solatrum mortale or Dolwurtz) in the writings of Hier- 
onymus Brunschwyg (1515). Reference is made by Tragus (Historia) under the 
name Solanum hortense nigrum, In 1542 belladonna was figured as Solanum 
somniferum or dollkraut by the German botanist, Leonard Fuchs. This, in brief, 
is the history of belladonna as handed down by many different writers on sub- 
jects of natural history and materia medica, The closer we observe the gradual 
growth into prominence and usefulness of our most valuable and powerful medi- 
cines, we find this gradual evolution repeated. First, the experiment with them 
by force of circumstances without any knowledge; then the trial by men who 
supposed that they knew how to use them ; and finally, as a result of this experi- 
ence, comes the true knowledge of physicians and pharmacists who are able to 
use them judiciously and properly compound them. 


Names and Synonyms. 
Atropa Belladonna.—/ inne. Natural order Solances. 


Dwale. 

Deadly night-shade ; black cherry, night shade. 

Tollkraut, dollkraut, dollwurtz, 

Tollkirsche, Wolfskirsche 

Synonyms. } German: ) Toljkirschen-Wurzel, Tollkirsche, Wolfskirchen- 
wurzel. 

Belladonna. 

Spanish: Belladonna ; Belladama. 


English: { 


Names and Synonyms with Authorities for Use of Same. 


Atropa Belladonna—Linz. 
Solanum Melanocerasum—Bawk. 
From Inaugural Thesis, ‘Pet Belladonna—Tourne/, Clus, Matthioli, 
rus Joannis Daries, DeAtropa? rags, Dioscorid, Rat. 
Belladonna,” Leipsig, 1776. ‘Atropa—Royen. 
Solanum furiosum—Camerar, Letale, 
Lobel, Dodon, Clutit, Thatit. 
Solanum Maniacum multis, Belladonna—v, 5. 
Solanum bacca nigra serasi simili— Tabern. 
Solanum cosmeticam—Weimann, Hoffman, Opsa 
Mulier, Tournef. 


Schlafbeere, Irrbeere, Marien 
: | Wuthbeere, Willbeere, Wi 
German? beere, Walkenbaum, To 
felsbeere, Weidbeere. - 
English: ~ Dwale, Deadly, raging or 
French:  Morelle, Marine, Bellad 


Description.* 


BELLADONNA. 


Stamen, 
Gorolia iobes, spread open showing insertion of stamens, 
Calyx with slightly exserted style. . 

Calyx adherent to berry. The latter cut showing the seeds. 
Berry and adherent calyx. 

Seed cut showing curved embryo, 

Seed, externally fitted. 

Seed, natural size. 


RAHA 


Belladonna isa large, bushy, strong growing annual herb, from 3 to 5 feet 
high. [See plate, page 11] 

Stem erect, thick, cylindrical, smooth or slightly downy with a tinge of red 
or purple; at first dividing into three, the branches are dichotomous and fre- 
quently branching, the youngest shoots being pubescent. 

Leaves numerous, alternate below, in pairs above of unequal size, all shortly 
stalked, 3 to 9 inches long, broadly ovate, or oval, tapering into the petiole, acute, 
perfectly entire, dark green and veiny, They possess a heavy, mawkish smell. 

*(Bentley and Trimen, 


103)” 
(Griffith’s Med, Bot., 846) 99) 

‘Med. Botany, Woodville, 230) 

H. Karsten’s Deutsche Flora, 969) : 
(Abbild u Bes. Aller. Pharm. Borus Gew., p. 16, illus-8) 


8 


Flowers are solitary, drooping (rarely 2 or 3 together) on short axillary 
peduncles, the latter as long or longer than the calyx with short glandular hairs. 

The calyx is green, persistent and deeply divided into five trianguldf-accu- 
minate segments. 

The corolla is gamopetalous, campanulate with the limb divided into five 
broad, shallow, blunt, nearly equal, spreading or slightly recurved, lobes of a 
lurid purple, darker in the upper internal surface, yellowish below. 


The stamens 5, inserted on the base of the corolla and shorter than it; fila- 
ment curved upwards at the end, anthers four-lobed small roundish (or caudate) 
yellowish white. , 

The ovary is spheroidal with a nectariferous gland beneath and supporting a 
long, simple and slightly exserted style; stigma green and two-lobed. 

The fruit a fleshy berry, sub-globular, depressed, umbilicate at the summit, 
very obscurely two-lobed about % of an inchin diameter, deep purple black, 
smooth shining, surrounded at base by the enlarged persistent calyx, two-celled, 
fruit stalk erect. Taste sweetish, and ifstances are recorded of fatal results from 
its being sold in London for blackberries. 

Seeds numerous, crowded slightly, attached to the axile placentas, rounded 
or oval or faintly kidney shaped, about 1-6 of an inch in diameter, minutely 
pitted and reticulated, embryo curved on itself in the endosperm. 


Habitat: 


Belladonna is native of Central and Southern Europe and found in hedges 
and waste places, especially among ruins and neartowns. It is found in Ger- 
many, Switzerland, France, Italy, Spain, Sicily, Hungary, extending to the 
Crimea Caucasia, and North Asia Minor.* It does not extend farther north than 
Denmark. 

The map shows in an approximate manner in the shaded portions the princi- 
pal points of supply of the commercial varieties. The towns indicated are the 
principal centres of exportation of the root and leaves to the United States. 

At one time Belladonna was so luxuriant in the vicinity of Furness Abbey 
that the immediate neighborhood was known as the ‘‘ vale of nightshade.” It is 
cultivated for medicinal use in Central and Southern Europe, England, but not 
in North America, although attempts have been made to establish it as a drug in 
this country. 


*Bentley and Trimen, (Medicinal Plants, Vol. 3, 193, 1880) and other authorities, 
say belladonna is cultivated in North America. This seems to be an error as diligent 
inquiry by the editor revealed the fact that probably not as much as a hundred 

unds has ever been gathered of the wild or cultivated plant in the United 
tates. Specimens at present cannot be found in the Botanical Gardens. In 
the Botanical Gardens at Washington it was stated that they had abandoned the 
growing of belladonna owing to the danger of keeping such a highly poisonous 
plant. Serious accidents having resulted from visitors picking the attractive but 
deadly flowers and berries. (Kilmer.) 
he plant ki own as the deadly nightshade with indigenous root-diggers 
in America, is Solanum nigrum,a common weed around door yards and rub- 
bish.” (J. U. Lloyd.) Atropa Belladonna has never been naturalized in North 
America; the ‘‘ nightshadts ” are, however, often reported as the true drug, and 
are known in many parts where indigenous as ‘' belladonna.” (Maisch.) 


9 


Cultivation and Collection. 


In Lincolnshire, belladonna is propagated by the seeds. They are removed 
from the berries, then washed and planted in the fall. The plant comes up the 


MAP OF EUROPE SHOWING, IN SHADED PORTIONS, HABITAT AND PRINCIPAL SOURCE OF 
SUPPLY OF BELLADONNA. 


following spring and when of sufficient size is picked out. The fotlowing year it 
is fit for cultivating. The first crop of leaves is collected in the beginning of 
‘July, and the second crop about the first week in September. As the plants 
grow larger each year their weight tends to split the root, causing water to get 
into it and producing decay, so that cultivation can rarely be continued beyond 
the third year in the same field. When this occurs, the land is ploughed and se- 
lection is made of the root, and all that is in good condition is dried and 
sold. 

In Cambridgeshire, the seed is drilled in during spring. The ground is 
chalky and admirably suited to the growth of belladonna. The soil at Lincoln- 
shire is not so well suited to the development of the plant on account of the total 
absence in some places, or of the small quantity, of lime present in the soil. At 
Cambridgeshire the drainage is also assisted by the porosity of the soil, but the 
Plantations are exposed to the full east winds and the late spring frosts are apt 
to injure the plant as it is then only a foot or more high. There is also a green 
fly, which in some seasons (about the beginning of June) attacks the leaves, caus- 
ina them to pucker and wither. (See note, page 11.) - 

10 


BELLADONNA, FLOWERING SPECIMEN AND ROOT.—[SEE PAGE 8.) 


NOTE ON INSECTS ATTACKING BELLADONNA PLANTS, by Prof. C. V. Riley, Entomologist 
Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

“Three species of insects are enumerated in Kaltenbach’s ‘Pflanzenpfeinde’ as enemies 
of the belladonna plant, but this work has not been brought up to date, and there are prob- 
ably several other species which attack it, The three species in question are as follows : 

Halica pubescens of which H. atropi is a synonym. This a small species of Flea-beetle 
which occurs also on other species of Solanaceous plants. It gnaws the leaves, eating out 
little pits and riddling them with holes. It occurs on the plant before it blossoms, usually 
frequenting the underside of the lower leaves. The larvae are unknown. 

‘The second species is Agrotis baja. This insect is also found on the primrose and straw- 
berry, the moth appearing in July. 

‘The third insect is Agrotis candelisegua, The hibernating larva occurs in spring upom 
belladonna and also upon Goldenrod. It transforms in May and is seen as a moth in June. 
Both the last mentioned insects belong to the family Noctuidae, or Owlet Moths, These 
species are all European and are unknown in this country.” 


a 


The plant is cut about the end of June. For making the leaf extract the 
leaves are not dried, but the green plant is sold and used at once. The best crop 
of leaves are yielded by the plants of the second and third year. The leaves of 
the first year are not fit to cut, and as they dig up the roots during the fourth 
year, there are practically only three years during which the plants yield a crop. 
There is a record of wild belladonna having reached a height of six feet in a 
very poor limestone soil which, however, was incapable of producing cultivated 
crops. Before the time of flowering the plants are not rich in active principle, but 
at the period of flowering the full development is reached and maintained. At 
Hitchin the plants are propagated by seed and by divisions of the roots. The 
annual crop is said to vary from one to five tons per acre. 


Where the plant has not reached too great a size it is simply mowed with a 
scythe and is dried with attached stems and stalks, but in this process other 
plants are cut down and mixed with it. In the fancy brands, the leaves are care- 
fully picked from the stems, and dried on cloth or wire trays, using at first 
a low heat which is gradually increased. This is said to preserve the natural 
color. Persons employed in gathering the plant have their eyes much affected 
by the belladonna. 


In England, immediately after collection, the leaves are placed in a closed 
drying closet containing a large number of sliding trays, (the heat being fur- 
nished by steam pipes) a draught of fresh air entering below and the heated moist 
air escaping from above. In this manner they are speedily dried without access 
of light. 


‘‘ The Belladonna plant is generally found in the centre of France upon the 
mountains, walls and ruins. It prefers damp, shady places, underbrush and dark 
woods. When grown in such places its mc- 
dicinal properties are much greater than 
when it grows in the sun and is cultivated. 

In gathering, soilage and season mu:t 
be taken into consideration. The properties 
are more active when wild grown. 

It has half as much more alkaloids when 
two or three years old than at seven or eight 
years. 

In France foliage and roots are not 
gathered at the same time. 

In preparing the best grades of dry 
leaves for market or use, the best looking plants are selected, the leaves cut or 
broken off and carried to a granary or loft and dried upon screens. There they 
are frequently raked over or pitched and turned to prevent sweating and spoil- 
ing. They are dried until they crumble. Care must be employed that too rapid 
or too long drying does not destroy the green color. The roots are gathered by 
a ssing with a fork. They are washed, split, partially dried in a drying box, and 
finally dried fully and quickly in an oven.” 


Note by 
A. Dordelu, 


From thesis: ‘‘ Recherces sur 
quelques points de Jlaction 
de la Belladone,” Paris, 1879. 
(Translated for this Work.) 


Belladonna Leaves. 


Macroscopically. 


Belladonna leaves are of two sizes, the larger about 11¢ d. m. long, the smaller 
being about 14 this size. They are brownish-green upon the upper surface and 
12 


gray-green below, broadly ovate or ovate-long, narrowed into a petiole ; apex, 


1. CROSS SECTION OF LEAF. 


Epidermis (upper surface). 

Epidermis (under surface). 

Palisade cells under which are the meso- 
phyll cells. . 

Crystal containing cells (Calcium oxalate 

in minute crystals.) 

Simple trichome, 

Head bearing and gland bearing trichome. 


AN PF BAD 


containing an innumerable number of 


acute or acuminate; margin entire, the 
petiole and nerves of the underside of 
the leaf particularly are downy, hairy and 
glandulous. Both surfaces of the leaf 
possess trichomes, numerous cells are ap- 
parent, filled with crystal-like contents, 
giving the leaf the peculiar spotted ap- 
pearance it possesses. Theleaf is mem- 
branaceous, odor narcotic and taste bitter 
and disagreeable. 


Microscopically. 

‘The epidermal cells, on making a sur- 
face section, appear undulating. On the 
under surface the stomata are more nu- 
merous, near to which arise trichomes 
which tend to cover and protect the 
stomata by preventing too great evapora- 
tion and so assist the work of transpira- 
tion. The hairs are of three kinds: (a) 
simple jointed cells ; (b) short glandular 
cells with one or more (3 to 4) celled apex ; 
(©) hairs with long stalks and a spherical 
celled apex. In the mesophyll are cclls 
granule-like or crystal-like bodies. 


Belladonna Leaves of the Market. 


As found in the market, belladonna 


leaves, especially the finer grades, when 


crumpled or broken up, looks very much like the mints, but arc easily dis- 


tinguished from them by the narcotic odor and disagreeable bitter taste. 


They 


also resemble somewhat the narcotic herbs, stramonium and hyoscyamus, but 


from these may be easily distinguished. 


Belladonna leaves compared to the other officinal leaves of the Solanacex are 


comparatively smooth and the margin 
is entire. The upper surface is darker 
than the lower surface. The undevel- 
oped fruit, a calyx with an unripe berry, 
is often present. 

Stramonium leaves are dark green 
and not quite so smooth as belladonna, the 
hairs shorter, with a many celled apex, 
and in the mesophyll are numerous cells 
containing large single crystals of calcium 
oxalate. The perforations and cork for- 
mations in the leaves are numerous. 
‘The base of the leaf is unequal and does 
not taper into a petiole. ‘The fruit is a 
capsule and very often a few reuniform 
seeds will be found present. 


13 


I, SURFACE SECTION OF LEAF. 
$f Stoma, 


. Fibs ular bundle (spiral vessels) 
4% Ehivecatalning crystaas » 


Hyoscyamus leaves are furnished with long hairs which tend to become 
tangled and matted, so giving the leaf a hairy appearance, There is an absence 
of petiole and a presence of stem stalks. The fruit is a pyxis enclosed in an urn 
shaped calyx. The seeds are much smaller than stramonium. 

Solanum nigrum leaves are much smaller than belladonna with a repand 
dentate margin. (Wigand.) 


‘* The description of the pharmacopoeia applies accurately to a very few leaves 
that could be picked out of a bale of belladonna; these would have to be care- 
fully moistened and spread out for examination, all the rest of the bale having to 
pass unrecognized, being simply a mass of crushed and broken leaves and stems, 
of a more or less uniform character and color. 

When the prevailing color is fairly uni- 
QSuScoceneueescocasconnsnsusososesssssssugss form, and fairly green—not brown—when 
: = the appearance and odor are free from mus- 
tiness, and without signs of previous damp- 
ness and fermentation, when free from 
admixture with dissimilar leaves or parts of 
leaves, as digitalis, hyoscyamus, weeds, etc., 
and when seed capsules with ripe seeds 
are found, the parcel may be accepted as 
fair quality, and gathered at the proper 
time. Ifthe leaves appear to have been all 
very large, and are very green, and no capsules to be found, somewhat like the 
fancy leaves sold in bottles, at high prices, this is a sign of cultivated plants 
harvested when the leaves are most succulent, but not most active. Though 
very attractive and handsome such leaves are less active than the wild plants 
taken at maturity. When a careful buyer 1s shown various samples of 
belladonna not a word of the officinal description is of any avail to him and he 
only knows that what is before him is belladonna from having seen it more or less 
frequently, and the grades of quality are also wholly judged by an experience 
which can hardly be conveyed by any description. But belladonna is frequently 
seen with a very consicerable admixture of other plants, recognized and unrecog- 
nized, as though whole patches of ground had been mowed where Belladonna 
was simply the prevailing production. These low, cheap grades are generall 
- sold for powdering, and then all discrimination is at an end, because all the land. 
marks of character and quality are gone. 

A very small number of those who know belladonna, a still smaller number 
of those who make preparations from it—and none of those who either prescribe 
or take it—ever see it in the leaf, in bales as it comes from abroad. The import- 
ing jobber, or the wholesale druggist, imports it and has it powdered, and the 
pharmacist or physician simply buys the powder.” 


Belladonna Root. 
Macroscopic Characters. 

The root of belladonna is a fleshy, spindle-shaped primary root. When fresh 
it is about 5 d. m. long and about 5 c. m. in diameter. It then possesses a number 
of stout branches, the remnants of which are sometimes seen attached to pieces of 
commercial root. The bark contains the largest amount of alkaloid, therefore 
roots are selected by careful buyers which possess the larger portion of bark com- 
pared to the woody portion.* Young roots of but two or three years are pre- 
ferred. Chemical analysis shows that the amount of alkaloid in roots collected 


© Note on Belladonna Leaves of : 
the Market, by 


E. R. Squibb, M.D., 
Ephemeris, Vol. II, 848. 


7 


about the time of flowering is twice as much as in spring, so roots should becol- 
lected about the flowering and fruiting season, carefully dried and preserved. 

‘The commercial root, to hasten the drying, is invariably split into smaller 
pieces. It occurs in rough, irregular pieces from a few inches in length to 6, 8 or 
even 12 and 15 inches, varying in diameter according as the root is split. Ex- 
ternally it is longitudinally wrinkled, of a pale brown or grayish color, internally 
brownish or whitish, odor heavy and licorice like, taste peculiar, characteristic, 
sweet at first and afterwards acridor bitter. The fracture may be mealy, horn-like 
or woody, and from these characters may be distinguished three commercial 
varieties.* 

(1.) Mealy Belladonna,—Is lighter externally and 
internally than the other two, and on cross sections it is 
of a nearly uniform dirty white appearance. The bark 
is about } of the cross section. At the periphery of the 
fundamental tissue of the pith are yellowish vascular 
‘bundles scattered apparently indiscriminately. These 
finally disappear beyond the cambium. Starch is present 
throughout all the cells of the wood and bark, which is 
colored blue by Iodine. In spring and autumn roots, the 


1 ° MEALY BELLADONNA ROOT 
starch is present in the largest amount. CROSS SECTION. 


(2) Horn-Like Belladonna.—Is very dark. On cross section it looks 


brownish and waxy, or horn-like. The bark is separated 
by an indistinct cambium from the woody portion, of 
which the fibro-vascular bundles are arranged in single 
groups and separated from each other by one or more 
broad bands of a horn-like tissue. (Keratrenchym.) In 
the tissue of both the wood and bark occur numerous cells 
filled with crystal-like contents appearing to the eye as 
white spots. ‘This variety looks more like inula root, and 
HORN-LIKE BELLADONNA is much smaller generally than the other two. The 
ROOT CROSS SECTION. starch grains are replaced by a dark, resinous material, 
(3) Woody Belladonna—This form possesses characters between the 
other two. The color is more of alight brown or gray. In cross section the bark 
resembles the horn-like variety. Inside of the cambium 
ring is found a prominent, radiating, woody zone with 
the largest duct in the very centre. The wood bundles 
have promment yellow ducts and are separated by 
equally prominent broad medullary rays. This variety 
is generally figured in text books. Starch grains are not 
so numerous as in the mealy variety, still they are 
abundant. 
Microsco| r. 
WOODY BELLADONNA CROSS "The cork consists of thin layer of cells, next to which 
is arranged the cortex. In the latter are numerous cells 
filled with crystal-like particles, called by Wigand krystalmehl, and by Moeller 
Lehrbuch der Pharmakognosie von A. Wigand. 
Anatomischer Atlas zur Pharmakognosie von A. E. Vogel. 
* Works consulted: { Pharmacognostischer Atlas von J. Moeller. 
Traité Pratique de la Detérmination des Droges. 
Simples par G. Planchon, 
15 


krystalsand. These are very common characteristics in both the roots and the 
leaves of belladonna. The sieve tubes are scarcely perceptible in the bark of 
young roots, but later are formed in groups more or less wedge-shaped like the 
wood bundles, These sieve tubes show a beautiful sieve plate in longitudinal 
section. Stone cells are wanting. As regards the bast in Belladonna authors dis- 
agree.* Wigand (4th edition, 1887,) mentions the presence of bast. Prof. Schrenck 
announced in the American Druggist, 
(1887, 2) that he had detected bast cells in 
belladonna root, but found it necessary to 
remove the starch and stain the cells. ‘The 
writer examined a mount made by Prof. 
Schrenck from the belladonna root of com- 
merce, (Oct. 16, 1886) mounted in glycerine 
jelly, and stained apparently with phloro- 
glucin, and readily made out bast cells- 
Upon further investigation he found it un- 
necessary’to use clearing and staining agents 
to discover them. The ducts are provided 
with elliptical pores. The wood bundles are 
surrounded by wood parenchyma, (colored 
yellow by potassium hydroxide solution) the 
bundles separated from each other by radi- 
ally broad medullary rays. Both the wood 
and bast parenchyma contain starch, The 
starch grains are of medium size, in shape ¢ 
round, irregular or hemispherical, or even 3 
two or three sided; single and sometimes com- Oat sai hee 
pounded of two or four starch grains. Some » pind-pereuchyme wih otarch and 
of the grains possess a distinct cross cleft crystal cella. 

" ‘ c. Cambium with a cuneated sieve-tube. 
or astone-like nucleus; in others, however, § Sylem portion (auct 
the stratifications are scarcely apparent. 2. Radial Longitudinal Section of Root. 
With sulphuric acid alone large numbers of % SMe PAreMI MS tates, 
prismatic crystals are produced. With sul- 3 Tangential Section, showing wood 
phuric acid and bichromate of potassium a perenchyms and ducts, 
greenish coloration is immediately produced, remaining sometimes twenty-four 
hours or more, This will be a help in determining this root. 


‘The Starch of Belladonna Root. 


Starch is by far the most abundant and universally distributed of non-pro- 
teid reserve food materials found in plants, and it always exists in the form of 
corpuscles or granules. These appear to be composed of two substances: granu- 
lose, which constitutes by far the large part of the grain (90 to 95 per cent. of its 
weight), and a skeleton composed of farinose or starch cellulose. 

In structure the starch grain is not of equal density throughout. Every starch 
rain has a hilum or nuclear portion around which the rest of the grain has been 


* Authorities haye heretofore described the atropa belladonna root as free 
from bast fibres. If pon careful investigation it is found that bast fibres are 
Sufficiently defined to be a characteristic feature, text-books should hereafter 
Tecord the fact. (Maisch). 

16 


deposited in layers, and the hilum and layers next to it are less dense than 
those farther exterior, The hilum may be located centrally in the grain. 
which then usually has a rounded form, or 


assoeee it may be located to one side of the 
Note by centre, in which case the form is apt 

to be elongated. Moreover, different layers 

Edson S. Bastin, of the grain contain usually different pro- 


Professor of Botany and Phar-{ portions of water, for which reason there is 
often appearance of concentric or eccentric 
lines or curves about the nucleus. 

Starch grains, in nearly all cases, if not 
in all, are formed by the agency of proteid 
bodies, either chloroplasts or amyloplasts. 
‘That formed in chloroplasts under the action of the sunlight, is gradually 
dissolved and transferred as glucose or some other soluble carbo-hydrate to some 
other part of the plant, where it is either employed in the processes of growth or else 
is stored again, usually in the form 7 
of starch, for future use. It is this, 
the reserve starch, which forms 
the conspicuous grains that are the 
subject of our present study. These 
are formed by amyloplasts, partly 
at least, at the expense of the amy- 
loplast itself, and partly, according 
to the investigations of A. Meyer 
and M. E. Laurent, not only from 
glucose and cane sugar, but out of 
various other carbo-hydrates or 
bodies related to them, such, for \ 
example, as mannite, Strasburger 
hholds, and apparently with good 
reason, that in rare instances starch 
is formed from the general pro- 
toplasm of the cell, and not solely 
from amyloplasts, and some have 
maintained that it is occasionally 
formed by mere crystallization in 
the cell, without the aid of any 2 
proteid whatsoever; but this cer- STARCH GRAINS FROM BELLADONNA ROOT, 
tainly remains to be demonstrated, % 18 stein as seen by polarized light. 

‘The figure shows a group of starch grains from the root of belladonna. The 
grains may be described as spherical, prolately spheriodal, or not infrequently 
double or hemispheroidal. 

The hilum is in central or somewhat eccentric, and marked either by a small 
dark, or by a faint, radiating or darkish lines. Concentric circular lines about 
hilum few and indistinct. 


macognosy in the Philadel 
phia College of Pharmacy. 


Belladonna Root of the Market. 


Belladonna root is much the more important part of the belladonna plant ; 
first, because it is much the strongest or most active part ; second, because it is 


7 


most uniform in strength ; third, because it is less liable to be contaminated with 
parts of other plants ; fourth, because it is most easily dried without injury, and 
ess liable to injuries by dampness, etc., in transportation and keeping, and fifth 
because it keeps better and longer without deterioration. In short, it has the ad- 
vantage over the leaves in all the most im- 
portant qualities proper to medicinal sub- 
stances. The root iscommonly bought and 
sold in powder, and very few pharmacists 
or physicians ever see it except in cabinets 
or museums. These selected specimens tend 
more to mislead than instruct; because, as 
arule, such specimens are never seen in 
any considerable quantity in commerce. 
The powder is of a dirty, whitish color, and everything else being equal, the 
whiter and handsomer it is, the poorer. Old, discolored and damaged root is not 
very infrequently ‘‘ brought up” in color in the grinding process, and would not 
be salable if this could not be done, since it would not be handsome enough. 

The roots though originally cylindrical are generally split to facilitate drying. 
At least, all the larger ones are split in the best parcels of the drug. They are 
somewhat wrinkled longitudinally, but perhaps more wrinkled transversely, and 
most of the markings are tranverse. he fracture is squarely tranverse, but not 
smooth, and the exposed structure is spongy; the spaces radiating from the centre. 

The peeled root is commonly preferred in the market and commands a higher 
price ; but it has been repeatedly shown that the fashion of peeled root is kept up 
by the sale of the peelings to the makers of atropine. At least, if the root be 
judged as it is met with in the market, the peelings would yield more alkaloid 
than the entire root, and considerably more than the peeled rovt.* 


Note by 


Dr. E. R. Squibb, 
Ephemeris, Vol. II., 853. 


Worm Eaten Belladonna. 


In common with many other vegetable and animal drugs belladonna in 
a dry state is attacked by insects. Large lots are sometimes put upon the mar- 
ket well riddled by the pests. They usually find their way to the drug mill 
where root borings, excrement and debris are ground to powder. In 
. the shops in loose parcels, packages or drawers, and even in shelf 
bottles, the drug rarely escapes their ravages. 


The insect is the Laszoderma serricorne, and belongs to the beetles, or 
Coleoptera, of the family P¢fznzdae. In this family we find a large number of 
species that feed both as larvae and as 
adults on dead and dry vegetable matter of 
the most diverse description, and among 
them are certain forms that become de- 
cidedly injurious to stored and even 
manufactured products. The species un- 
der consideration is the most troublesome, 
and it isalmost omnivorous. It is known 
to attack many sorts of drugs of vegetable 
origin, and their poisonous qualities do not 
deter or injure it. It attacks tobacco, and 
under the term ‘‘tobacco beetle” is a 
serious pest in many manufactories and 
warehouses. It breeds in plug tobacco, 
in cigars, and even in cigarettes, and in 
working out makes holes through the wrappers of the cigars and cigarettes that 
spoils them for smoking. 


Note on The Insect Attacking 
Belladonna Root, by 


Prof. John B. Smith, 


Entomologist, New Jersey 
Agricultural Experiment Sta- 
tion. Prof. Entomology, 
Rutger’s College. 


ie 


* Peeled belladonna is not so frequently met with in American markets as 
formerly, though specimens of the powdered root have been seen which under 
the microscope showed almost entir¢ bark structure. (Maisch). 

e- 


‘The insects breed all the year around if the temperature is moderately warm, 


WORM EATEN BELLADONNA ROOT, 


and the injury increases constant. 


LASIODERMA SERRICORNE, 


ly. The beetle is of a pale chestnut brown color, 
less than an eighth of an inch in length 
and rather broad and robust ; somewhat ovate 
in form. Eggsare laid on or in the material to 
be fed upon, and from these, which are small, 
ovate and white, a little, white, footless grub 
hatches in about one week. These grubs or 
larvae increase in size rapidly, becoming rather 
more than an eighth of an inch in length fat 
and clumsy, resembling on a small scale those 
found in nuts and acorns. In from two to 
three weeks they are full grown, change to a 
pupa, and shortly after to the beetle. 

The injury to roots, leaves, or other tissue 
is caused by both larva and adult, both of which 


19 


are voracious feeders. The substances are consumed, a large proportion as- 
similated, and, of course, completely changed, while the balance Fecbmes frass, 
or excrement, to which, whatever of the original active principle it may yet 
contain, is added some secretion of the insect which makes it unfit for use, and 
unreliable. 

Roots and herbs attacked by this insect should be carefully freed from all 
the dust and fragments produced by the insects before being used. The insects 
succumb readily and in all stages to gasoline, and to its vapor, in tight recepta- 
cles, in all save the egg state. The vapor of carbon disulphide also kills the 
larvae and beetles; but not the eggs. Napthaline checks development and thus 
prevents injury; but except in tight receptacles, does not kill, To prevent injury 
the materials should be stored in clean glass or tin re- 
ceptacles, for the insects can and do bore through 
wood, and even sheet lead. 

Another insect also belonging to the same family 
Ptinidae, and_with much the same habits as the 
preceding, is Sitodrepa panicea. ‘This is somewhat 
smaller and more slender than the Lasioderma though 
of the same Enea polos. The two insects are 

uite readil istin; not only in size, but 
the fact that the Lasidderma has the wing covers S'TOPREPA PANICEA, LARVA, 
smooth and clothed ‘with very fine hairs in rows, py 
while in the Sitodrepa the wing covers are striated or f 
furrowed and also clothed with hair. The differ- 
ence in the appearance is very well shown by 
the figures. far as the habits of this insect 
are concerned, they are very much like what has 
already been ‘deseribed, and the insect feeds on very 
much the same materials in very much the same man- 
ner. The larvae of the two species are also very sim- 
ilar in appearance, and the figure which represents 
that of the present species will answer almost as well 
for that of the Lasioderma, The two species some- 
time occur together infesting the same material ; 
but more frequently one species will be found alone. ialaseadilahiadacaniel 
The suggestions as to the prevention of injury which are previously given will 
apply equally well here. 


‘Adulterations or Admixtures of Root. 


Japanese Belladonna (Scopolia 
Japonica, Maximowicz) is a rhizome from 
5 to 10d. m. in length, and on an average 
1d. m. in diameter, cylindrical, slightly com- 
pressed, rarely branched or knotty; on the 
upper surface, marked by circular slightly al- 
ternate stem scars. Externally brown, in- 
ternally paler, speckled with numerous white 
dots, odor mousy and narcotic. 


Scopolia Carniolica Jacquin is obtained 
from Bavaria, Austro-Hungary and South- 
western Russia, The genus Scopolia is 

JAPANESE BELLADONNA ROOT WITH interesting as it forms a connecting link be- 
HSN, GMEMSYEE Stok tween hyoseyamus and atropa 
SHOWN FOR COMPARISON, Scopolia is a rhizome and resembles the 


genus Atropa in containing peculiar crystal-like contents; but they are less 
20 


prominent. Neither the bark nor the fibro- 
vascula bundles are so large or so numerous. 
The starch grains are likewise smaller. 
There is a close alliance in the anatomy of 
these two plants, but all of the important 
characters are less pronounced than in bella- 
donna. Belladonna scopolia is also a rhi- 
zome, and, like Japanese belladonna, may 
be distinguished from true belladonna, 
which is a root. This root is substituted by 
manufacturers for Atropa belladonna, as 
) it gives a large yield of extract. Where a 

preparation claims to represent the phar- 

macopceia, which explicitly calls for the 

use of true belladonna, this course is of 
. doubtful propriety. 

Messrs. W. H. Cole & Co., Drug Mer- 
chants, London, make the statement that 
“Scopolia Carniolica is always picked and 
rejected as useless by makers of atropine.” SCOVOLIA CARNIOLICA, 

Elecampane (/nula Helenium, Linne) is the root of Inula. ‘I'his root pos- 
sesses resin cells, the taste is aromatic, and it is stained yellow by iodine—being 
free from starch. . 

Medicago Root (Medicago Sativa, Linne) has been noticed as an adul- 
terant in Europe. It is distinguished from belladonna by a solid crown ; the bark 

is thinner, and the meditullium is tough and woody and 
traversed by numerous fine medullary rays. 
Marshmallow (4 /thea officinalis, Linne), is said to 
‘be used as an adulterant for belladonna. It resembles the 
young uncoated root. It is easily distinguished by its 
radiating wood, numerous bast fibres and mucilage.* 
Lappa (Arctium Lappa, Linne) root is some- 
times admixed with belladonna. It is distinguished 
by its peculiar pith, its distinct radiating bark and being 
colored yellow by iodine and blue by ferric chloride. 


(3) Constituents. 
Galen is the first author who refers unquestionably 
to the mydriatic action of two species of Solanaces’. Dr. 
Ray, in 1686, reported the case of a lady who had placed 


a belladonna leaf upon a small ulcerbeneath the eye and 
uepicaco sativa with afterwards was annoyed byan excessive dilatation of the 
SECTION. pupil. Evers independently in 1773 discovered the 
mydriatic power of belladonna. ‘These writers were followed by Davies (1775) 
and Loder (1796). _After this, the specific action of belladonna upon the eye be- 


* Holmes noted that belladonna root of the market had been found to contain 
as high as so per cent. marshmallow root Malva Syivestrus: It has been stated 
that some time ago the herbalists in Madrid offered for sale es belladonna a plant 
Which was not belladonna, nor even belonging to the order Solanaces. It was 
called in the Madrid market “Belladonna Silvistre dela casco de campo ares 
betanica cucubalus.” (A. P. A. Vol. 21.) 

ar 


came generally accepted. Runge in 1819 approximately isolated the alkaloid 
of hyoscyamus and called it koromegyn (meaning magnifier of pupil). In 1830 the 
apothecary Mein isolated the alkaloid atropine from the root. Independently 
Geiger and Hesse in 1832 isolated the crystallized alkaloid from the herb, while 
Liebig in 1833 determined its chemical formula. No recent complete analysis 
seems to have been made. 


The following table is compiled from those considered authoritative. It should 
be noted, however, that some of the conclusions have been questioned : * 


Constituents of Belladonna.— 
- CyHss No; Atropine. 
CiHe No; Hyoscyamine. 
Ci;Ha No; Belladonnine (Hubschmann) base and sulphate amorphous. 
CivHa No, Atropamine (O. Hesse) by action of Cl. is converted into 
elladonnine. ~ 
Apoatropine (Pesci) first obtained by action of nitric acid upon 
Atropine (probably identical with Atropamine). 
Starch both free and combined with potassium salts. 
Malic acid. (This acid is mentioned as the acid of belladonna 
which combines with bases forming natural salts.) 
C.cH3-O, Chryastropic acid (Kunz) concentrated solutions show green and 
blue fluorescence. 
C:;:HzO;, Leaxtropic acid (Kunz) from mother liqours. 
Succinic acid (Kunz) from extract of herb. 
Acetic acid (Brandt). 
Prendatorin (Brandt) with oxalate and sulphate of calcium. 
Phyteumscolla. ; 
Gum, wax, mucilage, aspari in, albumin. 
Atrosin coloring principle of root. 
Chlorophyll coloring principle of leaves. 
Potassium sulphate, Nitrate, Phdsphate, Chloride, Hydrochlorate, 
Oxalate and Malate ; 
Magnesium Malate and Phosphate. 
Calcium Malate and Oxalate. 
Sodium Phosphate. 
Ammonium salts. 


The Production of Atropine in the Flant. 
Messrs. Schering in 1888 stated that belladonna roots contain practically only 
hyoscyamine, and that atropine was a decomposition product produced during the 
process of manufacture. Drs. Will and Schmidt (1887) proved that the mere con- 


* The full constituents of pelladonna have not been accurately determined b 
modern authorities ; investigators, in recent years, have given more attention to 
some one or more special constituents. 

The constituents of the root may be approximately given as alkaloids 0.2 to 
0.6 per cent., belladonine (probably oxyatropine C;; Hz NO, ) hyocyamine, atropa- 
mine, starch, atrosin. The leaves contain about 0.5 per cent. mydriatic alkaloids, 
choline (bilineurine), mucilage, wax, asparagin, albumin, chr ysatropic acid 
(scopletin), succinic acid, malic acid (?) nitrates, ash 1.4 per cent. yocyamine is 
the predominating alkaloid of the leaves. (Maisch.) 

t is not generally admitted that malic acid is combined with atropia in bella- 
donna. Prof. Fliickiger does not mention it in his latest work, Dze Pharmakog- 
noste des Pflanzenreichs, 1890, and he has suggested the possibility of its being 
some other acid. My own conclusions are that, although it is not proven that 
atropine is united to malic acid in belladonna root, one would have the majority 
of evidence on his side if he considered the combination to be atropine malate. 
(Dohme). 


22 


tact of an alkali with hyoscyamine was sufficient to produce this change. Dr. 
Scnutte (Arch. der Pharm. 1891, 492) found that the same result is produced by 
repeated crystallization from acidulated water. He also investigated the influence 
that age and period of vegetation exerted upon alkaloids in the roots, leaves and 
berries. He found that fresh roots (one to two years old) collected from a basaltic 
district, whether gathered in the spring, summer or autumn, contained only 
hyoscyamine, but the older roots (8 years and upwards) always contained besides 
much hyoscyamine a little already formed atropine. Similar results were obtained 
with roots from old cultivated plants that had been kept for several years. Spring 
and autumn leaves of belladonna contained principally hyoscyamine, with equal 
quantities of ready formed atropine. The unripe berries of the wild plant con- 
tained chiefly hyoscyamine and a little atropine, but the ripe fruit contained only 
atropine. The ripe berries of cultivated plants, however, yielded both hyoscyain- 
ine and atropine. His investigations upon other members of the Solanacez 
indicated that hyoscyamine is the primary base from which other alkaloida 
products may be formed, 


The Relation of Atropine and Starch. 


Buddel (Arch. der Pharm., 1882, 414) found the starchy roots to contain 
from .41 to 1 per cent. of alkaloid, while the non-starchy yielded from .143 to .625 
percent. This would seem to indicate that besides the physical tests and the 
ease with which the test of starch may be applied that the microscopical examina- 
tion of specimens for starch will have considerable weight in determining the 
alkaloidal value of the root. Brandes has stated that the quantity of starch 
present is dependent upon the period of vegetation. Brandes also found young 
roots to contain less starch in spring than in autumn, and older roots are rich in 
starch in both spring and autumn, but contain less in summer. This may be 
explained by the fact that the young plant is more active and ambitious to obtain 
its full growth and uses up nearly all the nourishment provided by its parent. 
The next year, having its growth, it is more moderate in its use of its storehouse, 
and also manufactures in addition a nitrogenous substance in the nature 
of atropine. This new substance is produced in greater amount the next year, 
when it reaches its maximum development. Buddel says that the proportion 
of alkaloid in a root will increase year by year up to a certain point. This prob- 
ably is a providence onthe part of the plant; similarly as some of the plants in arid 
and desert regions produce carthartic or other harmful principles to prevent the 
animals from eating them, and so destroying them from the face of the earth. 
Plants of the second or third year, gathered late in the summer when the flowers 
have begun to fade and the roots possess the largest amount of starch, are 
selected as containing the maximum amount of atropine. 

Dealers in belladonna root select the heavy and compact varieties in prefer- 
ence to the woody and lighter specimens as they require less space in storing and 
less menstruum in preparation, It is also conceded that they will give the larger 
yield of alkaloid. 


23 


Conclusions. 


Regarding the time of collecting and variation of alkaloid in the plant, inves- 
tigators have drawn the following conclusions : 


The first year’s growth of belladonna contains but one-half the quantity of 
atropine present in older plants, and so are unworthy of collection. From the 
second to the fourth year the quantity of alkaloid is fairly uniform, At these 
ages and during the period of flowering the plants should be collected. The plant 
before flowering is not rich in active principle, but at the period of flowering the 
full development is reached and maintained, both in roots and leaves. (Gerard.) 
‘Wild grown belladonna contains a larger quantity of alkaloid than the cultivated 
kind. ‘The process of flowering and leafing does not exhaust the roots of its 
alkaloid, there being a simultaneous development in the root and leaf ; therefore 
the roots may be gathered at the same time as the leaf, 

Gerrard’s analysis of the freshly gathered plant shows the highest percentage 
of alkaloid in the leaves ; following them the root, fruit and stem, and the wild 
plant contains the largest amounts of alkaloids. Later investigators, however, 
have shown that the root will show a much higher average. The results of 
analysis of the commercial dry root and leaf of belladonna indicate that the roots 
yield a much higher percentage of alkaloid than the leaves. (.82 per cent. has 
been found.) A chalky soil favors the formation of atropine, which may account 
to some extent for the superiority of the English leaf. Belladonna leaves in 
pressed packages several years old, do not show evidence of loss of alkaloids. 
(Lyons.) Both the root and leaf of belladonna shows great variations in strength, 
and, as has been said, appearance alone is not a sufficient criterion as to the rela- 
tive value of one lot as compared with another. The peculiar acid and acrid taste 
of belladonna, which is more apparent as the sense of taste is cultivated, together 
with general physical characters already described, are fair indications to an 
expert of the value of a sample of belladonna, Chemical analysis is however the 
only certain and reliable test as to the full value. 


* Young roots contain only hyoscyamine. ‘The older roots contain both hyoscy- 
amine and atropine, the latter predominating. In young leaves atropine is 
present but hyoscyamine is the predominating alkaloid. The length of keeping 
after gathering appears to have no influence on the alkaloid present, (Maisch.) 


Belladonna in Pharmacu. 


This drug has held a prominent place in 


gcseecsccnnncccccccanesaseeccencenascagacess 
: By : the formularies from very early times. The 
: . = subjoined list shows the parts of the plant 
; Fred. B. Kilmer, Ph.C.: now recognized in the various pharma- 
Peccescoccsncenececcccuccuceccconenccecanesl copeeias. 
PHARMACOPGIA. PARTS USED. 
United States, 1880...... cccccccecesces Leaves and root. 
“6 66 1890... oe ee eee eee eeeee “s eo“ 
British, 1890. ........ cccccccccccccccces “ oo“ 
Codex Medicamentarius..........0.00e08. Leaves, root and seeds. 
Germanica...........cccccee cecceesees Leaves. 
Belgica... .. ccc cece ccc c ere ceeee ee cece Leaves and root. 
Neerlandica........0...-ceees eee cence Leaves, root and seeds. 
Helvetica....... ccc cc cece cee c cee wecvee Leaves and root. 
ROSSICA. .. cc cc ccc tee cet eecvees Leaves, root and seeds 
Norvegica. ...... cecccee cee eseecceeees Leaves. 
Fennica..... Cece cc cc cee c ese eesecess cee Leaves and root 
UD | 0: cr “ “ “ 
Hungarica ........c cree ccc ee coetescees Leaves, root and seeds. 
Sueica... oc cc ccc ccc cc ccc cc cte ee erscees “ oo “ 
Espanola....... ccc ce ceeccecececceees “ oo“ 6 
Mexicana. ........0005 eee ce cece eee Leaves. 
Italian........... Lecce cece ese wsetereces Leaves and root. 
. Portuguese . .....- cece vcccere cece “s cu.“ 
SAXONy ....... cece cece cece cee ceeeeees “s s “ 
Bavarian ... . ccc ccc cc cee sececccccees ‘e ‘ “s 
Holland. ......... ccc cece cen e ce ececene ‘e ee “ 
Hamburg... ... cece ne cece cee cerecsecs ‘e “ = 
Prussian .........020- eee ecece. cone ‘¢ “ “s 
Hanover......... “Lecce cere cece seeceees “¢ ¢ “s 
Wurtemburg........0, eeoveoeee @eeseeeoeete “6 “ “ 


Miscellaneous Preparations. 


Belladonna has for so long received attention in medicine that merely a list of 
the various forms in which it has been prepared would be very lengthy. The first 
methods in use were the expression of the juice of the green plant (and root) ; 
this was sometimes extracted with water or wine. 

Infusions of belladonna, made by boiling belladonna root or leaves in water, 
are still officinal in the French, Swedish, Russian and other pharmacopceias. In 
the Spanish Ph. cold water is used. The formula of the Wurtemburg Pharma- 
copoeia (1795) for a vinegar of belladonna, made by maceration of the root in vinegar 
with some added alcohol for preservation, is still in use. A formula from the same 
source, used somewhat in France and Germany, is for honey or syrup made by 
boiling with vinegar, to which honey is added to the consistency of a syrup. 

Syrups of belladonna are officinal in the French Codex, Belgium Pharmacopeceia, 
and are used in many countries; they are usually prepared by extraction with al- 
cohol and mixing with syrup. 


25 


The ancient Duval water still survives in aqua belladonna (Belgian Ph.), a 
distillate from a mixture of fresh leaves and water. 

The tinctures of belladonna of most formularies are made from the leaves by 
maceration and percolation with alcohol. The Austrian Ph. directs the use of the 
root. The French codex and Belgian Ph. have an ethereal tincture made by ex- 
tracting the leaves with ether. 

The oil of belladonna made by boiling fresh belladonna leaves with olive oil 
(French Codex, Hamb. Ph. 1835, Belgian Pharm. 1853) is in use. 

The fixed oil of belladonna expressed from the seeds has been used in medicine 
as aliniment and also for cooking and illumination. The U. ‘S. P, and Br. P. 
have liniments of belladonna into which camphor enters. 

Ointments of belladonna of various strength, but similiar in mode of prepara- 
tion to that of the U.S. P., are common to manyformularies. A poultice of bella- 
donna (Spanish and Mexican Ph.) is made of powdered leaves and linseed meal. 

The extracts of belladonna both solid and fluid have commanded the 
greater attention in the pharmacopceias. The older methods were simply an 
evaporation of the.fresh juice of the plant or leaves to the consistency of honey. 
With some modifications this is the process of the British, Greek, Spanish, Neth. 
Ph. and the French Codex. (The plant yields in June about 36 percent. by weight 
of juice). As an improvement, the extraction of the inspissated juice with alcohol, 
or a mixture of alcohol and water, was substituted. 

The solid extract of the root in the U. S., British and Austrian Ph., and the 
French Codex is made by extraction with alcohol and subsequent evaporation to 
the consistency of an extract. (The French Codex formerly directed the use of 
the seeds.) 

The abstract of belladonna is peculiar to the U. S. P., 1880, although pow- 
dered extracts of the leaves and root combined with milk, sugar or licorice is found 
in several formularies ; also several glyceroles combining the extract with gly- 
cerole of starch. 

Belladonna as treated in the last two editions of the United States Pharma-. 
copceia is shown in the following articles: 


Officinal Preparations, United States Pharmacopaia, 1880. 


TOOL LEAVES. Made with bella-. 
By >: Belladone Folia. donna leaves and 

Joseph P. ‘Remin ton, : a menstruum of 
P ,E.GS., Bron : Extractum Bella- | two parts of alcohol 


and one part of 


donne Alcoholi- water, five per cent. 


Cum. ......-.06.- 


Prof. of Theory ‘and Practice of = 


Pharmacy, and Director of 
the Pharmaceutical Labora- 
tory in the Philadelphia Col- 
lege of Pharmacy; First Vice- 
Chairman on the Committee s 
of Revision and Publication s 
of the Pharmacopeeia of the § 
United States of America ; : 
Pharmaceutical Editor of the = 
United States Dispensatory, 
etc., etc. 

By special permission from 
‘“The Practice of Pharmacy.” 


Alcoholic Extract 
of Belladonna. 


( 


Tincture Bella- | 
donne. 

Tincture of Bella- 
donna. 


26 


of glycerine bein 
incorporated wit 
the finished extract. 
Dose, one-fourth of 
a grain. 


Made by percolatin 


fifteen parts of bel- 
ladonna (leaves) 
with sufficient dilu- 
ted alcohol to make 
one hundred parts. 
Dose, ten to twenty 
minims. 


LEAVES. 
entumnn Belladonne............ Made by rubbing ten parts of alcoholic ex- 
lonna Ointment, tract of belladonna with six parts of 
diluted alcohol and incoporating eighty- 
four parts of benzoinated lard. 


Root. 
Belladone Radtx. 
actum Belladonne............ Made by adding an evaporated alcoholic 
act of Belladonna, fluid extract of belladonna root to sugar of 


milk, so that one grain represents two 
grains of belladonna root. Dose, one- 
alf to one grain. 


ctum Belladonne Fluidum. ...Made from belladonna root with alcohol. 


Extract of Belladonna. Dose, one to twenty minims. 

istrum Belladonne ........... Made by incorporating extract of belladonna 

.onna Plaster. root with resin plaster. 

entum Belladonne.... ....... Made by dissolving five parts of camphor in 

onna Liniment. nihety-five parts of fluid extract of bella- 
onna. 


Atropina, U. S.; Atropine (Atropia, Pharm. 1870), Ci:;HesNO; ; 2809. 


Dose, one one-hundred-and-twentieth to one-sixtieth of a grain. 


SOLUBILITY. 
Opor, TASTE 


AXTROPINA, U. 58, AND REACTION. 


———————— 
WATER. | ALCOHOL. So HER 


OLVENTS. 
wrless or white, acicular| Odorless ; bit-| |Cold, 600 | Ve | Soluble in 3 
ls, permanent in the air.|ter and acrid|| parts. | soluble. | parts of chlo- 
heated to 114° C. (237.2° | taste ; alkaline roform and 
1e crystals melt, and, on | reaction, Boiling, 60 parts of 
m, are completely dissi- 35 parts. ether. 


emitting acrid vapors. 
ine and its salts are de- 
sed and rendered inert 
longed contact with po- 
or soda, and, if heated 
either of them, evolve 
of ammonia. | | 


Tests FOR IDENTITY. 


‘ith sulphuric acid Atropine yields a colorless solution, which is neither 
d by nitric acid (difference from morphine) nor at once by solution of 
mate of potassium, (difference from strychnine) though the latter reagent 
longed contact causes the solution to turn green. On heating this green 
m, diluted with a little water, to boiling, a pleasant odor recalling that of 
ind orange-flowers is developed. The aqueous solution of Atropine, or of 
‘its salts, is not precipitated by test-solution of platinic chloride (difference 
nost other alkaloids). With chloride of gold it yields a precipitate, which 
re-crystallized from boiling water, acidulated with hydrochloric acid, is de- 
d on cooling (rendering the liquid turbid) in minute crystals, forming a 
ustreless powder on drying (difference from hyoscyamine.) 


27 


LAINE WEIR, DRRARK 
STAAEORD UNAERSIT 


eee ema ATW 


Atropinz Sulphas, U.S. Sulphate of Atropine. (Ci;HsNOs;)2H:SO,; 676. 
(Atropz Sulphas, Pharm. 1870.) 


ATROPINE SULPHAS, Opor, TAsTE, SOLUBILITY. 


AND REACTION. OTH 
WATER. | ALCOHOL SOLVENTS. 


SS | ene tte 


A white, indistinctly crystal-; Odorless, very || Cold, 0.4} Cold, 6.5| 0.3 part of 


line powder, permanent in the| bitter, nauseat- part. arts. | absolute al- 
air. When heated on platinum | ing taste; neu-|| Boiling. Holling, cohol, 

foil, the salt is decomposed and | tral reaction. Ve very 

wholly dissipated, emitting ac- soluble. | soluble. 

rid vapors. 


Tests FOR IDENTITY. 


On adding test-solution of carbonate of sodium toa concentrated aqueous 
solution of the salt, a white precipitate is obtained which answers to the reactions 
of Atropine. An aqueous solution of the salt yields with test-solution of chloride 
of barium a white precipitate insoluble in hydrochloric acid. 


Belladonna in the New Pharmacopoeia: 

Atropa Belladonna L., its preparations and products ; as treated by the new 
Pharmacopeeia differs but slightly from that of the edition of 1880. A glance at 
the following lists of titles will, show what has been dropped and also make 
apparent the changes in names. 


1880. 1890. 
Abstractum Belladonnez. — — —= — 
Atropina. | Atropina. 
Atropinz Sulphas. Atropine Sulphas. 
Belladonne Folia. Belladonnez Folia. 
Belladonne Radix. Belladonne Radix. 
Emplastrum Belladonnz. Emplastum Belladonne. 
Extractum Belladonnz Alcoholicum. Extractum Belladonnz Foliorum Alco- 
olicum. 
Extractum Belladonnz Fluidum. Extractum Belladonnez Radicis Fluidum. 
Linimentum Belladonne. Linimentum Belladonne. 
Tinctura Belladonne. Tinctura Belladonnz Foliorum. 
Unguentum Belladonne. Unguentum Belladonne. 


Additions and subtractions have been 
rather unimportant. The abstracts, first 


: By introduced experimentally, failing to gain 
: popular favor, are now abandoned. Ab- 
. R. G. Eccles, stract of belladonna, of course, had to go 

M.D., PH.G., with the rest. A possible new preparation 


might be introduced by any pharmacist un- 
der the title Tincture Herbarium Recen- 
tium as it gives authority for one of fresh 
belladonna herb. <A suggestion was made 
to introduce hydrobromate of atropine but 

it was not done. b altered , 
: ’ Atropine has been altered in its mole- 
United Retar Grocers Asso 5 cular weight, the formula of the old chem- 
' orem penn = istry has been omitted and its descrip- 


Com. on Adulterations, N. Y. . : 
for tion and tests materially changed. The 
S ta t e Pharm. Association. weight that was formerly’ given as 289 is 
ittee, Chemical Section. 2 10W Placed at 288.38. Thisis due to the 
Bro oklyn I nstitute ection, use of the most recently corrected atomic 


SSPSSSEGSRACCKCRREARCCRRCEREEESERERRARAASSASEE weights in which oxygen is given as 15.96 
28 


Committee of Revision, U. 
S. Pharmacopeceia, 1890-1900. 
Government Chemist for In- 


instead of 16, carbon as 11.97 instead of 12, and nitrogen as 14.01 instead of 14. Hy- 
drogen being the standard of reference is held at one. The formula of atropine 
being C,,H.zNO, we have 17x11.97-+23+14.01-+(15.96x3)== 88.38. 
While the old text told us that atropine was prepared from belladonna and 
ave no hint of the fact that it is seldom or never found pure, the new says that 
it is obtained from that drug and is always accompanied with more or less 
hyoscyamine from which it cannot be easily separated. Instead of being told as 
before that it is permanent in the air, we now learn that it gradually assumes 
a yellow tint on exposure to the air. Its solubility, which as given in the old is 
600 parts of cold water and 35 parts of boiling water, very soluble in alcohol, 
soluble in 3 parts of chloroform and 60 parts of ether, is now set down as 130 parts 
of cold water, 3 of alcohol, 16 of ether, 4 of chloroform and about 50 of glycerine. 
It is now said to melt at 108°C. instead of 114° C.* and we are told that it gives off 
acrid fumes at 140° C. Its marked alkaline reaction is emphasized by the state- 
ment that its saturated aqueous solutions become pink with phenol-phthalein and 
under certain conditions give a yellow precipitate with corrosive sublimate, that 
soon turns red. 

Sulphate of atropine has also been altered in its molecular weight and has had 
its old formula of the old chemistry changed. The molecular weight of 676 has now 
been replaced by 674.58. A glance at the formula, (Ci; Hs N Os), H,SO,, shows 
it to be made up of two molecules of atropine and one of sulphuric acid. 
Sulphur having had its atomic weight changed from 32 to 31.98 takes part in 
altering the molecular weight of the sulphate. The new weight of sulphuric acid 
is 231.98 X(15.96x4)=™=97.82. If now we add 97.82 to twice 288.38 we will get 
674.58 which is the new figure for atropine sulphate. The solubility as given b 
the old text agrees with the new for water and is very nearly the same for alcohol. 
It does not, however, give the figure for absolute alcohol and states it for ether to 
be 2.270 parts and for chloroform 694 parts. It is now said to melt into a brownish 
liquid at 187° C. and to be neutral to fitmus paper. In other particulars the two 
texts agree. 


Belladonna leaves in the Pharmacopoeia of 1880 were described as to length, 
but the width and surface appearance were forgotten. Now we are told that be- 
sides being from 10 to 15 centimeters long they are also from 5 to 10 centimeters 
wide and that both surfaces are whitish punctate. It was hoped and expected by 
many that a minimum alkaloidal standard would be fixed for both leaves and root, 
but the sub-committee having this in charge deemed it the wiser part not to multiply 
such innovations too rapidly. Ultra critics may be inclined to charge against 
them the fact that they do not mention the age of the plant nor season of collect- 
ing the leaves, forgetting that foreign collectors are not readers of our Pharma- 
copeeia and are in no way controlled by it. Those familiar with the subject tell 
us that they should only be collected during the flowering season of the second 
year’s growth. 

Belladonna root, as now described, does not vary a great deal from the 1880 
text. The minimum thickness of the pieces is placed at 10 instead of 12 millimeters; 
they should not radiate or show medullary layers in the thicker rvots, but only in 
the layer near the bark and we are told to reject the hollow stem-bases which are 


* This change in the melting point of atropine seems to have been adopted after 
careful consideration by the revisers, and is presumed to be correct for atropine as 
found in American markets. It is probable that for various reasons the exact 
melting point of C. P. atropine has not been determined. The following are the 
melting points as given by different authorities: 114°C, Ladenburg; U.S. P. 
1880, Watts, Thorp; 114-5° to 115°C, Dohme; 115-5°C, Schmidt; 107-109° C, 
Eccles, Merck, (109); 104°C, Squibb, (completely melted 113); the difference ma} 
be partly accounted for by the fact that the atropine used by the different ob 
servers was not of the same degree of purity. The lower figures presumabl) 
being the nearer pure. (Kilmer) 


29 


sometimes present. If it had been an American crop, the harvesting of which 
could have been controlled by us, roots of the first year’s growth should alone have 
been made officinal. Two year old roots have been examined that contained no 
atropine. The range of alkaloid in various samples varied very widely. It is 
common to find roots on the market ranging from 1-5 to % of one per cent. Had 
the committee seen fit to standardize it, about 14 of one per cent. would have been 
a good average. 

Belladonna plaster has now to be made from the alcoholic extract of bella- 
donna leaves instead of from the root as formerly. In the 1880 edition a lengthy 
description of how to percolate and exhaust the powdered root used in making 
the plaster was given under this head. This being omitted in the new edition 
neither alcohol nor belladonna root appear in the formuia, but as a new addition 
thereto we find soap plaster. As both resin and soap plasters contain 1n their 
composition lead plaster, it should here be mentioned that this last substance is 
now ordered to be washed free from glycerine. Formerly no such directions were 
given although in practice manufacturers usually did so. The following sample 
formula from the new edition of the Pharmacopceia, for emplastrum bella- 
donna, will show the reader the style of type and the new method of giving weights 
and measures according to the metric system. 


[Sample type and formula from the new Pharmacopeia.] 


EMPLASTRUM BELLADONN. 


BELLADONNA PLASTER. 


Alcoholic Extract of Belladonna, two hundred grammes 200 Gm. 
Resin Plaster, four hundred grammes ..........- ween 400 Gm. 
Soap Plaster, four hundred grammes ........ vesaeeeeee 400 Gm. 


To make one thousand grammes .... 1000 Gm. 


Melt the Plasters on a water-bath ; then add the Extract of Bella- 
donna, and continue the heat, stirring constantly, until a homogeneous 
mass results. 


The principal reasons that influenced the revisers in selecting alcoholic extract 
of belladonna leaves instead of the specially prepared extract of the root for mak- 
ing belladonna plaster were the facts that there is greater uniformity of the 
quantity of alkaloid present in the extract of the leaves than in that from the roots; 
and if the retail pharmacist should occasionally be required to make a plaster of | 
this kind the work would be far less for him by the new than by the old method. 

Alcoholic extract of belladonna leaves in the Pharmacopeceia of 1880, did not 
have the word leaves attached. The formula there given was longer than the 
new by the addition of dilute alcohol and glycerine. Then one hundred parts of 
the leaves were ordered ; nowit is one thousand grammes. The percolation is now 
accomplished with a menstruum composed of .wo volumes of alcohol to one of 
water, instead of two parts by weight of alcohol to one of water, and the drug is 
exhausted with this single menstruum instead of finishing with dilute alcohol as 
formerly. Glycerine is not now ordered to be added, but the preface to the volume 
mentions the fact that those who wish to keep any solid extract may add glycerine 
thereto. The change in menstruum alters to a trifling extent the proportions of 

* and alcohol soluble constituents. 


30 


Fluid extract of belladonna root was originally fluid extract of belladonna, 
the word root not appearing inthe title. Instead of being percolated with straight 
alcohol as a menstruum it is now exhausted with one composed of 4-5 alcohol and. 
1-5 water. This change was made for the purpose of securing a product with the 
least tendency to precipitate on standing and with the highest per cent. of alkaloid 
compatible with this condition. A large number of experiments were made with 
- different tinctures and fluid extracts for the purpose of accurately determining 
these points. 

Belladonna liniment of 1880 differs from that of the new Pharmacopeeia in 
that both the camphor and fluid extract were weighed in the former, while only the 
camphor is weighed in the latter, and the fluid extract is added up to the required 
amount. This makes the new preparation contain a trifle more camphor than the 
old. The difference is so slight, however, that no one is likely to observe it. 

Tincture of belladonna leaves has been changed so little it is in this respect 
scarcely worth consideration. The word leaves has been added to the title, 
10o parts by weight have been altered to 1,000 grammes for the leaves and to 
1,000 cubic centimeters for the finished product. This makes 6.67 cubic centi- 
meters of the new tincture represent one gramme, while about 7 cubic centimeters 
was the equivalent in 1880. 

Belladonna ointment is prepared from the same ingredients as in 1880, but 
the proportions are very slightly altered. The word grammes appears in place 
of parts. The benzoinated lard is changed from 86 parts to 85 grammes, and the 
diluted alcohol from 6 parts to 5 grammes. 


A New Series of Reactions for Atropine. 


As used in the Pharmaceutical Laboratory of the University of 
Strassburg: 


Atropine.—C,;H3No;. Melts in boiling water. Melting point, 115° C. 
a. Soluble in ether, alcohol, chloro- 

form and slightly in carbon bisulphide. 
Aqueous solutions of atropine turn red 
litmus paper blue and redden phenolphtalein 
paper. 

6. 1 milligramme of atropine dissolved 
in 1 C.c. of alcohol and heated with 1 C.c. 
of asolution of mercuric chloride (1 part in water 19 parts) on a water-bath, will 
cause a precipitate of yellow mercuric oxide to be formed; not, however, if the 
atropine is added last. The reaction taking place is represented by the following 
equation: 

2 (C,;H»No;) + Hg. Cl + H.0O —2 (CullaNos.H Cl.) AN Hg: O. 

. . . 4 ee ( . le 45. Ss. . . 
c. Mecurio-potassium iodide containing (Ke 1 3 x4 ems.) in one liter and 


Contributed by 
Alfred R. L. Dohme. 


mecurio-potassium bromide, containing : ; 

Oe Be a ome in one liter give precipitates with solutions of atropine, 
which soon become crystalline. 

d. A solution of tannic acid (1 part in water 19 parts) gives a precipitate with 
atropine solutions, soiuble in excess of the precipitant or in acetic acid. 

e. A solution of potassium bichromate (1 part in water 19 parts) causes no pre- 
cipitate, and a saturated aqueous solution of picric acid causes a precipitate 
only in hot saturated solutions of the alkaloid. 

f. 0.1 gramme of atropine, when boiled with 3 C.c. of water and 0.2 gramme 
of mercurous chloride, causes the latter to turn black; on filtering the boiling 


31 


alkaline lfquid and Supersaturating this, after cooling, with dilute nitric acid, 
there will be formed a considerable precipitate on the addition of silver nitrate 
solution. 

g. By heating about one milligramme of atropine in a glass tube until white 
fumes begin to form, then adding 1 C.c. of sulphuric acid, spec. grav. 1.840, again 
heating until the mass begins to turn brown, then carefully adding 2 C.c. of water, 
drop by drop, a very pleasant odor is developed. This is very easily destroyed if 
only a trace of potassium bichromate or permanganate be present before the 
addition of the water. 

A. By heating 1 C.c. of glacial acetic acid with 1 C.c. of hydrochloric acid, 
Spec. av., 1.124 and 1 milligm. of atropine, the mixture will become fluorescent, 

e color being greenish yellow. The pleasant odor mentioned under 2. can also 
be detected in this case. 

z. Rub together on a porcelain plate 1 milligm. of atropine and 1 milligm. 
of sodium nitrate and make a paste of this by adding to it one drop of sulphuric 
acid, spec. grav., 1.840. Now add to this some solid caustic potash and moisten 
the mass witha few drops of alcohol; a beautiful violet color will be produced. 


Extraction of Belladonna. 


Alcohol is the proper menstruum to use for the abstraction of belladonna. 
The addition of water increases the amount of extractive matter derived from both 
the root and the leaves without, however, 
causing a corresponding increase of alkaloid. 
Hence, an aqueous extract in excess of that 
which may be obtained with alcohol from 
the same drug is likely to be decreased in 
value. 

The application of heat sufficient to 

distill the alcohol from a small amount of 
an alcoholic percolate does not disintegrate the natural alkaloidal combination, but 
leaves the resultant soft extract possessed of the full physiological energies of the 
original solution. The admixture of free acids or alkalies, especially alkalies 
preceding evaporation, is likely to prove injurious. Aqueous extracts should not 
be exposed to continued high temperatures; they deteriorate under such condition 
even if free mineral acid be present, hence aqueous extracts are from this cause 
also likely to be inferior to alcoholic. 

The most eligible and reliable belladonna preparation of an extractive con- 
sistence is the alcoholic semi-solid extract made by quick evaporation of small 
amounts of percolate. If the vacuum concentration is used, larger batches can be 
worked to advantage than by direct evaporation. 

Neither solution of atropine nor of the salts of atropine or hyoscyamine in 
proportjon to correspond to those obtained from the alcoholic extract or tincture 
of belladonna seem to possess the full qualities of the alcoholic extract or a perco- 

late of good belladonna. Hence admixtures of extractive with the purified 
alkaloids cannot fully replace natural belladonna extractives that are ot the same 
alkaloidal proportions. 

For this reason, phyto-chemical analysis does not altogether determine the 
comparative therapeutic value or physiological energies of belladonna prepara- 
tions, although it may be safely accepted that such preparations as are deficient in 
alkaloid are correspondingly inferior. ; 


Note by 
John Uri Lloyd, 


Prof. of Pharmacy, Cincinnati 
College of Pharmacy. 


32 


They are stronger than othe others 5 and will Keep mech be 


fo 


Ban less- Ouie 


An improved Cantharidal Plaster U5 


COMPARATIVE TESTS. 


U.S.P CANTHARIDAL| FRENCH | RUBBER 
] CERATE Blister Plaster | Blister Plas} 
TIME TIME TAME 


Potter tre erate me femremee ur rmnnucirnin rent AIMULY PERNT US_TY OAT TU PRIDIGIANS ANU UNUBU! 
Fisar “HE 1S GREATLY PLEASED with JOHNSONS BELLADONNA P R THAT IT GIVES 
RUVICKER AND BETTER EFFECT THAN ANY BELLADONNA PLASTER HE HAS HERETOFORE USED. 


Belladonna Plaster | 
With approval. 
nt has been made in the addition of 
fo the Plaster base Wilh a View 
skin pores and enabling, Yhe drug Xo 


ioe Akeaot Prater Ae 


Belladonna Plaster Formulas. 


In many ancient authoritative formulas, Belladonna Plasters were made by 
boiling the juice of the plant with an equal weight of linseed oil and adding yel- 
low wax and Venice turpentine to the proper consistency. 

The following table gives the formulas now in use in the various countries 
named, as authorized by the Pharmacopceias. 


PHARMACOPGIA. PREPARATION, BASE. 
United States, 1880......... Extract Belladonna Root.... Resin Plaster. 
United States, 1890 ........Extract Belladonna Leaves. . 1 Res in Faster. 
British.............0000-- Extract Belladonna Root.... Soap Plaster. . 
French Codex.... ......... Extract Belladonna Root.... Gum Elemi and Dia- 


chylon Plaster. 


German........ . ... cece. Extract Leaves .......... , Oly Soe Fpentine, 
Belgian .. .......06. oe os. xtract Leaves............. Oe One or. gundy 
( Yellow Wax, Lead 
Netherland........ ...0 0.0 Extract Leaves........ .-.+ Plaster, Olive Oil, 
Turpentine. 
Yellow Wax, Colo- 
Helvetian.......c.cceeecces Extract Leaves .......... phony, Olive Oil, 
urpentine. 
Yellow Wax, Colo- 
Russian. ........ ee cee teeee Powdered Leaves ........ . phony, Lead Plaster, 
live Oil, Turpentine 
Mexican...........00-eceees Extract Leaves.... ....... Lead Plaster. 
Italian... 1.2.0... ce cece eee Extract Leaves...., ...sece esa Hiemt, 
Spanish........ cece eecces oe Oil of leaf; (deaf boiled with { Burgundy Pitch, 
olive oil.) Elemi Resin. 
Portugal...... eect e tee eeees Extract Leaf................ Lead Plaster. 
Hamburg eee eececece eseeeereon Powdered Leaf Oe ry ee ee i ve hony, Wax, on 
| Hanover. ........ 0. cee scene Powdered Leaf............. Resin, Div e Oil, Yel- 
. { Resin, Yellow Wax, 
Wurtemburg, 1847 ......... Powdered Root...... seeeeee 7) Olive Oil. 


Belladonna Plaster.—Johnson & Johnson’s Formula. 


Belladonna Root 
assaying 5-Io per cent. alkaloids—one hundred parts. 
Extracted with alcohol by macero-percolation; reduced in vacuo to a semi- 
solid extract. 


Incorporated by mixing cold with 


{ Caoutchouc, 
Olibanum, 
Picis Burgundica, 
Plaster Mass J Oleum Olive, To make 100 parts finished plaster. 
Cera Flava, 
Gum Resin Galbanum, 
Boric Acid, 


33 LANE MEDICAL Linear 


STANFORD UN: 
WEDIGAL CAN 
STANFORD , GH 


Making Belladonna Plasters. 


Plasters are such common articles of merchandise that we are apt to think of 
them as things that are bought and sold by the pound or yard; but, in the com- 
pounding and mixing room, problems arise 
that call for the same judgment and skill 


: By : needed in all branches of scientific phar- 
: Robert Wood Johnson, 3 macy. 

: CHEMIST, : The physician demands a plaster that 
: President Johnson & Johnson: Will act as a curative agent ; if it will not do 
= Corporation. = this he prefers some other mode of treat- 
i a 


ment. 

To suit his ideas a plaster must be: 

“Thin, flexible, strong.” ‘Firmly adhesive; but not too muchso.” ‘Properly 
mixed; spread evenly to give accurate dosage.” ‘‘A mass that is adhesive and 
waterproof.” ‘‘That will allow drugs therein to act.” ‘‘That will aid absorp- 
tion.” ‘‘Of standard, accurate strength.” 

The patient will tell you that he does not put on plasters for fun, or as a sub- 
stitute for clothing ; he wants to get well. The patient wants a plaster that is: 

‘‘A cleanly and convenient appkcation.” ‘Simply to apply and take off.” 
*‘Cheap and efficient.” 

The dispenser wishes all they ask for, and besides : 

‘Good looks.” ‘‘Plasters that will not change.” ‘‘Not affected by age or 
climate.” ‘Easy and simple to dispense.” ‘Attractive and perfect packing.” 
‘Efficient in action.” ‘‘Affording a fair profit.” 

These are all legitimate demands. It would be impossible to fulfil them, and 
use the bases and methods of the Pharmacopceias ; however, it may be done and 
still retain the officinal standard of medicinal strength. 

To make a good belladonna plaster with any kind of a base, is not easy. It 
was not accomplished in the ‘good old way,” when belladonna juice or the leaf 
itself was ‘‘melted down” with lead and resin. The heat used in these processes 
is very destructive. 

The National Dispensatory says ‘‘temperature 120-130 is required.” In my 
experience this heat would greatly injure belladonna, would be disastrous, and 
good belladonna would be cremated in the mass so that it would never teach 
the spot where it could do any good asa curative. 

The plaster-maker has to carefully consider not only the drug, as in the case 
of belladonna, but every separate ingredient, every step of the proecss, the 
effect of every combination, and to follow it out to its ultimate ap- 
plication. 

Everything put into a plaster which is not an active medicinal agent, or has 
no use in promoting adhesion or absorption, is simply debris that will fill the pores 
of the skin with so much dirt, and stands in the way of the drugs being absorbed. 

All sorts of powders and fillers are uséd to make a thick, hard mass that 
will ‘‘look and keep,” but the effect is to hold the belladonna in the plaster, and 
not let it reach the skin. The proper selection of belladonna root, the proper 
handling of belladonna root, the proper extraction of the active principles and the 
proper preparation for combination with the plaster mass are four equally im- 
portant factors in the making of a perfect belladonna plaster. 


34 


The alkaloids of belladonna are easily broker up and destroyed. The effici- 
ency of the plaster greatly depends upon the condition in which its active ingredi- 
ents are held. To act promptly and give the best results the ingredients must be 
in a soluble form, and in a state to readily pass through the skin. A very hard, 
insoluble, old or imperfect extract of belladonna is useless in a plaster. I have 
known plaster spreaders, who, in order to get a nice looking plaster and to 
enhance its keeping, would ‘‘boil down” belladonna extract to a hard and tough 
mass. They produced handsome goods, but they might just as well ‘have. 
omitted the belladonna; as experience has taught that continued heat above 
100 is injurious, 115 very dangerous, and a short time above 120 will ruin bella- 
donna extract. 

One of the most important discoveries made by Johnson & Johnson, in con- 
hection with belladonna, is the method by which the whole operation of manmipu- 
lating and spreading the plaster is done at a temperature not exceeding 100. 

| Thereby preserving the activity of this delicate drug. 

The use of india rubber in plaster bases was the first progressive step in 

plaster making that has been reached in centuries of pharmacy.* 

India rubber has many qualities that make it one of the best gums to be used 
‘ina plaster mass. It has just the right stickiness at body temperature. 

It acts well with most drugs. 

It is waterproof, is fairly stable, but is a highly complex, treacherous 

substance. 

After all the study and experiment in putting rubber into every conceivable 
shape, one cannot with any certainty tell whether a certain piece of rubber will 
Spoil quickly or not. If the plasters keep the rubber is all right; if the plasters 
spoil the rubber is not all right. India rubber goods, which are vulcanized or 
cared to make them last, are only preserved under careful handling and are still 
uncertain. Plasters must be made of uncured rubber, and are much more sub- 
ject to change. 

India rubber, as it comes from the forests, is filled with vegetable and animal 
Matters, fafs, resins, wax and acids. In addition, it has been found that the secre- 
tions of the tree vary with the health of the tree, and the conditions of its 
gtowth. 

This is true even of the finest grades of rubber, and to overcome them is the 
object of various processes used inthe rubberindustry. In plaster-making trouble 
will surely arise if these conditions are nof wholly and carefully removed. 

The various gums besides rubber that enter into a belladonna plaster must 
also be taken into account. Ifa piece of any gum, as found in the market, be 
melted and strained more or less dirt and foreign matter will be found mixed 
with it. These gums carry with them turpentines and acids that act upon raw 
rubber, and would re-act upon the constituents of belladonna. Their removal 
must be accomplished by washing in water, by neutralization of the acids, evapor- 
ation of turpentine products, and in some cases, by solution in proper solvents, 
straining and recovering the solvents. All these steps are preliminary to 
the mixing and spreading process, and are factors that determine the effi- 


ciency of the raster as a remedial agency, as well as its quality as an article of 
trade. 


*(Mr. Johnson was the first to combine india rubber in the pharmacopceal plas- 
ter masses. ) 


35 


‘he mixing of a plaster mass and the process of spreading has often beer 
described.* 

Belladonna plaster-making means, in brief, a thorough exhaustion of Bella 
donna root by maceration and percolation; then a concentration of the extract to 
a proper consistency. 

In these processes extreme care is necessary, that the resulting extract may 
not bein any way injured. The prime requisite is that the plaster shall hold the 
constituents of belladonna in a condition to be readily absorbed. It must not be too 
soft nor yet too hard, but have a uniform degree of solubility in order that the 
drug may pass into the skin and tissue. 

The extract is mixed in the cold with the gums olibanum, burgundy pitd 
galbanum, resin, etc. These gums have their use as assistant to adhesiveness 
and aid in holding the plaster mass close to the skin. Galbanum is quite active 
as a promotor of absorption. The wax and oil aid in keeping the mass in proper 
consistency and holding the constituents of belladonna in soluble form. Bort 
acid is a most important agent, aiding as a solvent for the drug, but acting largely 
as a mild detergent upon the skin secretions, dissolving the clogging matters in 
the skin pores, and greatly aiding absorption. It has its value also in preserving 
the mass from change. 

The operation of mixing and spreading on cloth requires care and skill that 
comes only with thorough training, one must have quick hands, an eye on the 
thermometer and quick discernment as to when the proper plasticity is reached. 
These with accurately adjusted apparatus guided by a good, clear-headed judg- 
ment are pre-eminent requisites in the spreading of a belladonna plaster. As soon 
as spread they should be covered from light and air, cut in sizes, wrapped and 
packed into boxes. The quicker this is done the better results will follow, 
whether for a trade article or healing agent. 

Why do plasters spoil? Sucha question is often asked and is pertinent to 
any make, for none are exempt. The maker who produces plasters simply to sell 
probably has less complaints than anyone else. He uses little rubber as pos 
sible, loads up with absorbing powder-fillers that take up the products of decay. 
The plasters look all right and sell ; a cheap, poorly made plaster often has the 
requisite of keeping unchanged. 

One reason why india rubber plasters change is because they are made of 
india rubber. India rubber cured by the best known method is very liable to 
change. Plasters are made of uncured or raw‘rubber, made plastic, in other 
words carried very near a point of self-destruction. Several conditions hasten 
decay, such as frequent changes of temperature, or continued heat above 100°. 
Warm, moist temperature will not only affect the rubber but may start mould in 
belladonna. A great element to cause change is light. The heat, the chemical 
and the light rays of the sun all act injuriously on raw rubber. The direct rays of 
the sun will start decomposition in a few seconds; inan hour’s sunlight a plaster 
is hopelessly ruined. Reflected light acts in the same manner, but less energetic 
ally. Oxygen is destructive to rubber and the alkaloids of belladonna; in the 


*Mr. Johnson’s method of making was incorporated into the 16th edition af 
the United States Dispensatory (see Emplastra page 555),and was also described 
in detail in various pharmaceutical journals. r. Johnson was the first to lift 
the veil of secrecy that covered the making of india rubber plasters, and to give 
the pharmaceutical profession the full benefit of his discovery and experience, 


36 


form of ozone it is very energetic. Air, especially when its conditions are change. 
able, aids decomposition. Many things combine to induce change in a plaster made 
with a rubber base, resulting in the breaking up of rubber, loss of elasticity, for- 
mation of new compounds all more or less ruinous to the plaster. All the factors 
that cause change in plasters are not under the control of the maker. Plasters 
are often seen lying open on counters, in windows and under skylights, in utter 
disregard of the facts here named, and which the plaster maker has labored to 
avoid. 

Belladonna plasters are exempt from some of the difficulties which surround 
other rubber plasters. Properly made belladonna extract acts ina measure as 
an enveloping preservative surrounding india rubber particles. Alcoholic ex- 
tract of belladonna root will not mould as easily as the extract of the leaves. 
The boracic acid and gums in the Johnson & Johnson formula all aid in 
staying change. This formula is the result of practical experience with every 
known base and method of making plasters. They should not change in two 
years. Specimens are in existence fifteen years old. 

In view of the nature of an india rubber plaster, and the ease with which 
fresh stocks may be obtained, it would seem advisable that consumers, retail 
dealers and physicians should not keep them long. Slow selling plasters and kinds 
not frequently demanded should be obtained only as needed. Not more than a 
six months’ supply of belladonna plasters should be kept in stock. 


37 


Phusiological Action of 


Belladonna. 


When the smallest physiological dose of atropia is administered to man, the 
only symptom induced is dryness of the throat and mouth, and possibly some 
disorder of vision. When a little larger amount is given, this dryness is more 


Q2Ceccesasacscccscennnsscseessennnenaneenang 
By 
H. C. Wood, 
M.D., LL.D., 

Prof. Materia Medica and Ther- 
apeutics and Clinical Prof. 
Diseases of the Nervous Sys- 
tem in the University of 
Pennsylvania. 

Abstract by permission from 
‘‘ Therapeutics, Materia Med- 
ica and Toxicology.” 


intense, and is associated with redness of the 
fauces, dilated pupils, disordered vision, and 
possibly diplopia. The pulse is sometimes at 
first rendered less frequent, but this decrease 
is very transient, and certainly in many cases 
cannot be demonstrated at all. Often from 
the first, certainly after a short time 1n all 
cases, the heart’s beats, after a large dose 
of the alkaloid, become excessively rapid, the 
pulse rising to one hundred and twenty, or 
even one hundred and sixty; and in a little 
while a peculiar bright-red flush appears on 
the face and neck, and may spread over the 
whole body. As I have seen this it lacks 


the punctuations of the rash of scarlet fever, and is only in very severe cases fol- 


lowed by desquamation. 


Early in the course of the symptoms of atropia-poisoning there is very often 
forcible expulsion of urine, and erections of the penis may occur; but afterwards 
there is generally, Harley says, retention of urine. With thesymptoms above 


enumerated, intellection may remain perfect; but there are generally some light 
ness of head, giddiness, and confusion of thought, as well as a staggering ga! 
and restlessness. Occasionally, even with doses which may be called medicina 
there are spectral illusions. Drowsiness is not a general or at all characteristi 
symptom; if present, it is apparently always produced indirectly, as by the re 
moval of some cause of previous wakefulness. When a decidedly poisonow 
amount of belladonna or its alkaloid has been taken, all the symptoms alread 
noted are intensified, and to them is added a peculiar talkative delirium, in whic 
the patient lives ina world of his own, engrossed by the spectres and visir 
which throng him, and completely oblivious to the surrounding realities. Sc 
times this delirium is wild, and the patient almost uncontrollably violent. Aft 
time sleep may come on, and on waking from this, complete consciousness 
be regained, or the symptoms may gradually subside. After avery large | 
has been taken, severe convulsions may appear in a very short time, and per 

ad 


ith or without furious maniacal delirium, until near death. Sooner or later; 
»wever, the delirium subsides into stupor, and the convulsions into paralysis, 
id when the dose has been enormous, and especially when the alkaloid itself has 
sen taken, stupor, with great muscular relaxation, may occur very early. 
ividity of the face, and evident imperfect aeration of the blood, are not seen in 
Tropia-poisoning, except in a stage of most eminent peril. Death is preceded by 
arked failure both of the heart’s action and of the respiratory forces. In most 
ses, I think, it is actually brought about by asphyxia. 

Upon the lower animals belladonna to a great extent acts as upon man, 
ithough its influence is much less powerful in them, and very much larger doses 
re required, Seeming indifference of action are in most cases simply apparent, 
ot real. 

It follows that atropia in toxic doses paralyzes either the trunk or periphera 
laments of the nerve, most probably the latter. 

Upon the heart itself atroepia acts as a direct depressant poison, but for this 
afluence to be apparent a very large amount of the alkaloid must be used. 

Atropia acts on the cardiac accelerator nerve-centres, or possibly nerves, asa 
timulant, and, unless it be in lethal doses, does not destroy excitability of these 
lerves. 

The relation of belladonna to the vaso-motor nervous system is of such prac- 
ical importance that it deserves the closest study. 

The evidence derived from direct observation of the capillaries seem to me to 
»e, on the whole, decidedly in favor of their contraction by minute doses of 
elladonna. 

I am forced to give assent to the proposition that atropia, in not too large 
tmount, is a stimulant to the vaso-motor centres; a conclusion in harmony with 
he action of the drug on all the other motor centres. All observers agree that 
he advanced stage of atropia-poisoning, after the blood-pressure has commenced 
© fall, there is dilatation of the capillaries, It seems most probable that this is 
lue toa direct action of the poison on the muscular fibres in the coats of the 
vessels; for when directly applied to the web of the frog’s foot, atropia, after a 
-ime, produces an evidently paralytic dilatation. 


Action upon the Nervous System.—The delirium which is so character- 
istic of atropia-poisoning shows that it has especial relations with the cerebral cortex. 

There can be no doubt that in the higher animals atropia acts upon the 
cerebrum as it does in man, producing the same peculiar delirious intoxication 
often ending in stupor. It is not necessary to discuss the matter further, except 
to remark that belladonna is not a hypnotic. The fact that the exhibitiorf of a 
remedy is followed by sleep in disease is no proof that the remedy is in a proper 
Sense a hypnotic. Noone would give oyster soup such a cognomen, yet in 
Certain exhausted wakeful states of the system such food may bring back sound 
Sleep. If belladonna ever acts as a hypnotic, it is in this indirect way, by remov- 
ing some cause of abnormal wakefulness. It can never be relied on, like opium, 
to induce sleep. 


Action on the Voluntary Muscles.—The voluntary muscles escape un- 
Scathed in atropia-poisoning. Jt is true that Lemattre has shown that the con- 
tractility of a striated muscle may be destroyed by soaking it in a very concen- 
trated solution of the alkaloid; but long before any such action can take place in 


39 


life the animal is killed; consequently after death from belladonna the con- 
tractility of the voluntary muscles is found impaired. 


Action on the Abdominal Canal.—On the non-striated muscles the action 
of the drug is pronounced, but its exact nature is uncertain. It appears that in 
full doses atropia paralyzes the smooth muscular fibres of the intestine, bladder, 
etc., and it may be that in any dose it depresses that activity directly, but that, it 
paralyzing more quickly the inhibitory apparatus, it sometimes places the intes- 
tinal muscular coat in such a position that it will respond more vigorously than 
normal to external stimuli, and also that very minute doses may cause quiet by 
producing inhibitory stimulation. This view is borne out by the fact that the 
smallest dose used by Keuchel was 0.075 gr.; by Ott, 0.115 gr., both observers 
experimenting on the rabbit. When Ott used 0.45 gr., he got the same result as 
did Keuchel. 


Action on the Respiratory System-—It has already been stated that in 
man small doses of atropia do not affect the respiration, whereas large doses 
accelerate it. The same is true in animals; and the acceleration takes place even . 
when the vagi have been previously divided,—a proof that it is due to a direct 
stimulation of the respiratory centres in the medulla. When very large fatal doses 
are administered, there is evidently also a paralysis of that portion of the peri- 
pheral pneumogastric nerve which is connected with the function of respiration. 


Action on the Glandular System-—One of the earliest and most notable 
effects of medicinal doses of atropia is dryness of the mouth, due to suppression 
of the secretions of the mucous and salivary glands. The action of the alkaloid 
upon the skin is similar. It can scarcely be doubted that this arrest of secre- 
tion is nervous; and the experiments of Keuchel indicate that it is due to anaction 
upon the peripheral nerve-filaments. 


Elimination.-—When atropia is exhibited medicinally it probably all escapes | 
from the body through the urine; and even after poisonous doses the amount 
eliminated through other channels must be almost infinitely small. 


Action on Secretion-.— After small doses of atropia the urine is increased,— 
sometimes, according to Harty, doubled. I am confident, however, that this in- 
crease varies very much, and is not always marked. After very large toxic doses 
the urine may be at first increased, but it is usually lessened very early, and in the 
later stages may be entirely suppressed. 

In regard to the secretions of the alimentary canal, the action,of atropia is 
very uncertain, I cannot find, however, any experiments that seem to me at all 
decisive; and clinical evidence certainly indicates that the alimentary secretions, 
if affected at all, are increased. 


Action on Temperature.—In moderate doses atropia causes a pronounced 
rise in temperature, but in very large decidedly toxic amounts it lessens animal heat. 


Summary:—From what has been already stated, it is evident that the action 
of atropia in therapeutic and in toxic doses is in a sense quite different. 

In full medicinal doses it produces a sort of febrile state, with dryness of the 
mouth, increases rapidity and force of the circulation, quickened respiration, . 
elevation of temperature, and secretion of febrile urine. The rapidity of the 
heart’s action is due to paralysis of the peripheral inhibitory nerve and to stimu- 
lation of the accelerator nerves; the increased arterial pressure, to the increased 


40 


ardiac action, together with the general contraction of the capillaries, the result 
f excitation of the vaso-motor centres. The spinal cord is not sensibly affected 
y these doses; the motor, and probably to a much less the sensory peripheral 
erves, suffer lessening of functional activity, although the influence of thera- 
eutic doses of atropia upon them must be slight. If the dose be sufficiently 
irge, the cerebrum is thrown into a condition of mild delirium, resembling also 
hat of fever. 

After decidedly toxic doses of atropia, the blood-pressure falls, from dilatation 
f the capillaries, owing to the paralysis of their muscular coats, and from direct 
aming of the heart-muscle. The temperature also falls; the muscular system is 
elaxed, and sensation is impaired, from the paresis of the motor and sensory 
lerves respectively; yet convulsions may now occur from the over-activity of the 
eflex centres, the predominance of paralysis or of convulsions varying with the 
lose, as the depressing or stimulating influence is the more powerful. Delirium 
recedes stupor, which in turn precedes death, from asphyxia, caused by failing 
runkal nerve-functions or very rarely from syncope, caused by failure of the 
‘ardiac muscle. 


Local Action.—It is evident that when belladonna is applied to a part it 
nust act locally as a paralyzant, no doubt overpowering the capillary walls, the 
ensitive and motor nerves, and even muscular and glandular cell-action; for, 
xcept in the case of the latter, experimental evidence has already been brought 
orward to prove that, locally and freely applied, belladonna is a sedative poison, 
ind clinical evidence points very strongly to its exerting a similar influence upon 
gland-cells. A Zeller (Virchows Arch., lxvi, p. 384) has found that a one per cent. 
solution of atropia brought in contact with the blood, outside of the body, has a 
lecided influence in arresting the movements of the corpuscles. 


Action on the Eye.—Our knowledge of the action of atropia upon the pupil 
may be summed up as follows: Atropia applied locally causes mydriasis by 
paralyzing the peripheral ends of the oculo-motor nerve, and probably by stimu- 
lating the peripheral ends of the sympathetic. Atropia given internally almost 
Certainly causes, mydriasis, not influencing the nerve-centres, but by being carried 
in the blood to the eye itself, and there acting precisely as when locally applied. 


The Action of Belladonna. 


F _ Atropine is the active principle of belladonna and it assumes all the proper- 
es of this solanum. 

Il. The intensity of effects is varied according to species; the herbivorous 
{OCCCCRUESTCERREESSee Ee SeEeEsaAsanasasaseany animals are less sensitive to the action of 
B = atropine while the carnivorous are more 
y . sensitive; the poison is especially violent on 
‘Andre Isadore Meuriot,: man, but there is no animal refractory to it. 
‘Thesis, ‘De la Methode Physio-: aig ge effects x accordin with the 

ss . s erent doses; sm oses accelerate the 

ligique et Therapeutique et de = action of the heart and increase the pressure; 

see ia ppheations a letude delas poisonous doses decrease the pressure and 
onne, Paris.” 


retard the action of the heart. 
(Translated for this work.) 


IV. Belladonna is a_ vasculo-cardiac 
TIT TITIVii iri iii i ii ison, according to the classification of 
rof. See. Its action is especially localized 
pon the vessels Producing innervation of the heart. 
V. The varied phenomena produced by atropine depend in most cases upon 
rimordial and elective action, or are due to the elimination of the poison. 


41 


LIAL WER a. 
STRAPORD WK WE 
MEDICAL CENTER 


. VI. Atropine acts upon the heart by the medium of the pneumogastric 
nerve, of which it paralyzes the peripheral extremities. It constantly increases 
the frequence of the pulsation of the heart. 


VII. In small doses it increases the tonicity of the vascular muscles; in 
isonous doses it diminishes and even destroys this. Due to this quality 
is its application in epilepsy, which seems to be caused by modification of cerebral 
circulation. 
VIII. The variations in the arterial pressure are subordinated to condition of 
excitement or paralysis of muscular coat of the vessels. 


IX. Atropine in small doses accelerates the respiration and in poisonous doses 
retards. 

The acceleration of the respiratory movements depends upon the excitation 
of the respiratory centres; what follows is due to the paralysis of the extremity 
of the vagi nerves; according to this quality it is used in cases of asthma. 

X. Atropine in therapeutic doses augments the exito-motory functions of the 
spinal cord, rather than diminishes it. In poisonous doses it exaggerates the 
reflex powers to the extent of producing convulsions. 

XI. Atropine always produces agitation, sleeplessness and delirium, and in 
poisonous doses coma. It is not a narcotic. 

XII. Atropine is eliminated by the kidneys, by the mucous membrane and 
sometimes by the skin, in man. Its elimination is always rapid; its action of short 
duration. 

XIII. The effects due to the elimination of atropine are numerous; such as, 
the redness of mucous membrane and the skin, the inclination to frequent urina- 
tion, colics, gripes, anal and vesical tenesmus, profuse perspiration and 
diarrhoea, etc. 

XIV. The redness and dryness of the mucous membrane accounts for aphonia, 
dysphagia, dysuria, etc. ; 

XV. Not only are the secretions of the mucous membrane diminished, but 
also, on account of the activity of the circulation, a rapid absorption of all the 
liquids from the surface of the mucous membrane. On this account it is used 
for exaggerated secretions of mucus, and its effects in cough, etc. 

XVI. The local application of atropine upon the tissues produces always an ac 
tivity of the capillary circulation, and used in large doses real hyperzemias and 
stagnation of blood. 

The process of angina and erythema by belladonna is analagous to the 
inflammatory ‘process. 

XVII. The modifications of urinal secretions are dependent upon the variations 
of the arterial pressure. 

XVIII. Belladonna is not a paralyzing agent upon the smooth muscular fibres; 
it produces phenomena of paralysis only in very large doses, and is always conse 
quent to exaggerated contraction, hence it is effective in incontinence of urine 
and foecal matter, in paralysis of bladder, in constipation, in irreduci 
hernia, etc. 

XIX. Atropine has no elective action upon the sensatory nerves. 
plication is always followed by severe and persistent pains. Atropine acts o 
upon the hyperzethesical nerves, and often causes analgesia, but it must be appli 
directly upon the affected nerves. 

eos mall doses of atropine increase the temperature and poisonous d 
inish. 


XXI. Atropine possesses, beside this, the special property of dilating 
pupil. This is the most constant and persistent effect, and its applicats 
are numerous in opthalmia. The atropine paralyzes the terminating branches 
the third pair of nerves; this fact is clearly demonstrated by experimental ph 
ology in the study of mydriasis by belladonna. With this paralysis of the ci 
branches of the ocular motor nerve is connected the paralysis of the muscle 
accomodation. 

XXII. Certain experiences, and some considerations which we have 

‘own, Show the exciting action upon the sympathetic or upon the di 
* nevertheless, a more rigorous demonstration is needed. 


42 


General Conclusions. 


4s to Physiological and Therapeutic Action of Belladonna. 


1. The extract of belladonna being very hygrometric is easily altered. 
2. The belladonna is a poison as well to man as to most of animals. 
3. We can use it gradually in doses of 4o or 50 centigrammes, and even 
more according to the effects we wish to 
produce and the individual. 
. Women seem to be more susceptible 

to the effects of the poison than men. 

5. The organism soon becomes accus- 
tomed to the action of belladonna. 

6. Theelimination is very rapid and con- 
sequently the effects are of short duration. 

7. e often have to vary the doses in 
order to keep the organism under the influ- 
ence of the medicine. 

8. The pulse is ordinarily increased 
while the temperature remains stationary. 

. The vision is affected, the pupils be- 

come dilated, sometimes unequally, and always susceptible to contraction. 

10. Belladonna causes often Polyuria and dysuria. The polyuria seems to 
depend upon the quantity of liquid absorbed. 

11. The secretion of saliva is greatly diminished. 

12. ‘There is always a very great dryness of the throat, accompanied by ex- 
cessive difficulty in deglutition and sometimes by a loss of taste. 

13. We.have never observed in our patients, sleeplessness, delirium or hal- 
lucinations. 

14. Belladonna often causes heat and dryness of the skin. 

15. Itis a muscular relaxative. (Gubler.) 

16. The use of belladonna is advised in whooping-cough, epilepsy, asthma, 
incontinence of urine at night, the perspiration of phthisics, and certain cases of 
neuralgia. 


From ‘‘ Recherches sur quel- 
ques Points de l’action Physi- 
ologique it Therapeutique de 
la Belladone,” by 

A. Dordelu, 

These pour le Doctorat en 
Medecin, Paris, 1879. 
(Translated for this work.) 


43 


The Local Actions of Belladonna. 


Belladonna when applied to the skin as a plaster, liniment or ointment in 
large quantity may be absorbed Sufficiently rapid to produce all the symptoms 
that are developed when it is taken internally. There may be dryness of the 
throat, the pupils dilated, the vision disor- 
dered so that near objects cannot be so easily 
seen or there may be even double vision. At 
the very beginning of the action of the drug 
the pulse may be for a brief time slower, but 
very soon it becomes faster. The breathing 
may become more rapid and deeper. Ina 
person with a thin white skin a bright red 
flush may appear on the face, and later may 
spread over the entire body. In susceptible persons there may be even a wild 
talkative delirium. Since it is not applied to the skin for its constitutional but its 
local action, the manifestation of these objectionable symptoms indicates that the 
quantity applied is too large, and should be reduced. When applied locally in 
quantities too small to produce a constitutional disturbance it can cause appreciable 
as wellas useful actions on the following mechanisms : 


By 
Ww. C. Caldwell, M.D., 


Prof. Materia Medica, College of 
Physicians and Surgeons, 
Chicago. 

Extract from lecture. 


1. The sensory mechanism. 

2. The motor mechanism. 

3. The secretory mechanism, and 
4. The ocular mechanism. 


Sensory Mechanism. 


Belladonna relieves pain. I will first tell you how it lessens pain, and then 
why it is far more efficient when applied iocally than when given internally. 
When a drug lessens pain, it does so by depressing 
some part of the sensory mechanism. The possible 
points in the mechanism where a drug may act are as 
shown in diagram I. 

First, the receiving centre in the brain. 

Second, the sensory tracts in the spinal cord, and 

Third, the ends of the sensory nerves. 

Some drugs diminish pain by depressing the re- 
ceiving centre so that the impression transmitted 
from the periphery cannot be received. This is the 
way morphine mainly lessens pain. Other drugs do 
so by depressing the sensory tracts so that they cannot 
conduct the impression to the brain. Caffeine is sup- 
posed to lessen pain this way. Or again other drugs 
act as anodynes by depressing or paralyzing the ends 
of the sensory nerves so that they are not susceptible 
to irritation, and hence do not receive the impression 
to be conveyed to the brain. This is the way such 
drugs as belladonna and cocaine relieve pain. Bella- 
donna has no action on the receiving centre or the 
tracts, but it has a very marked depressant action on 
the ends of the sensory nerves. 


44 


ave now told you where it acts to deaden pain, I wish next to tell you why 
lyne action is a thousand times stronger when applied at seat of pain than 
iven internally. If the anodyne action of a drug is due to depression of cen- 
racts, then it not only is A 

to apply it over the area 
oain, but it will act much 
‘and more efficiently if 
nternally so that it can 
asily reach these struc- 
It is for this reason 
ne, the most potent ano- 
aown, is rarely used as a 
or liniment (though it 
ot be forgotten that it 
light action on the ends 
sensory nerves). But if 
acts as an anodyne by 
ing the sensory ends it 
etter to apply it directly 
of pain, if it is accessi- 
t has a much stronger 
because the whole dose 
wcentrated form comes 
‘in contact with the 
f the nerves that are 
d, whereas, if it is 
internally the dose is s) 

by being mixed with the whole quantity of blood and carried 
to all the other parts of the body as well as to the area of pain 
nce as is evident from the accompanying schematic drawing (Cut II 
ch the large rectangle A B represents the area of the whole body 
e small rectangle a b, the area of pain, the dose is as many times 
r as the large contains the small rectangle. Such drugs as bella- 
cocaine and aconite when applied locally cause anzsthesia over area 
lication, but to produce this by giving one of these drugs internally 
ld be necessary to give sufficient to produce general cutaneous 
esia, that is it would require a toxic dose. It is for this reason 
Madonna is of such great service in relieving pain and reflex phe- 
1 due to peripheral irritation. In asthma, smoking the leaves be- 
the sensory ends in the respiratory mucous membrane and lessens 
lex bronchial spasm. The liniment, ointment or plaster applied to the 
a very common and efficient means of relieving the pain of inter- 
neuralgia, pleurodynia, lumbago and the various forms of myalgia. 
titability of the chest muscles seen in phthisis is lessened by bella- 
also the pain from old adhesions due to pleurisy are relieved, 
y by the plaster, which acts as a splint, lessening mobility of the 
vall, at the’same time it is anodyne. The pain in chronic rheuma- 
1d gout for a similar reason are benefited. Belladonna is pre-eminently 
‘or the relief of these various peripheral irritations, because it acts at the 


45 


seat of the morbid process, because in the dose given it does not act anywhere 
else, causing derangement of the system as occurs when such drugs as morphine 
are given internally, The plaster is usually better than the liniment or ointment: 
1st. Because it is cleaner and does not soil the clothes. 
2d. Because it is more slowly dissolved, and hence its action is more continuous 
3d. Because it protects the skin from the cold, and in that way partly relieves 
the pain, and 
4th, Because it acts as a splint, lessening the mobility of the painful area; this 
specially applies to the chest. 


Motor Mechanism. 


Belladonna diminishes muscular spasm: when a drug lessens spasm it is by 
depressing some part of the motor mechanism. The points in the motor 
mechanism where a drug may act to lessen spasm are as shown in diagram III: 

ast. The cerebral motor areas, 

and. The spinal motor areas, 

3rd. The spinal motor tracts, 

4th. The ends of the motor nerves, and 

sth. The muscles. 

Belladonna probably acts on more than one part of this mechanism; however, 
the phenomena is very complicated and its action is by no means yet thoroughly 
understood. This much though, is known, 
that when applied to the skin or in 
jected directly into a muscle it depresses 
the ends of the motor nerves so that im- 
pressions cannot be conveyed to the 
muscles, but are stopped just before 
reaching the muscle, and hence belladonna 
in this way can relax spasm. For the 
same reason that it is far more efficient 
as an anodyne when applied locally, it is 
more active as an antispasmodic when 
injected into the muscle or applied over 
it. If it diminished spasm by depressing 
cord or brain of course its local application 
would be of no service. Becanse it re- 
lieves pain and spasm, belladonna suppo- 
sitories or ointment are very useful to 
relieve the spasm of sphincter ani from 
fissure. The ointment applied along the 
urethra greatly lessens the spasm of 
urethra that some times occurs in gonor- 
rheea. It is also used for rigid os uteri. 
The spasm occurring in rheumatism and torticollis is benefited by belladonna 
applications. 


MOTOR TRACTS. =— 


Secretory Mechanism. 
No drug in Materia Medica is such a powerful depressant of glandular activity 
as belladonna. Before presenting its mode of action on the glands, I will briefly 
46 


describe the mechanism of secretion and the points in it where a drug can act, as 
shown indiagram IV. The mechanism consists of the secretory cells, lymph spaces, 
arterioles and a nervous mechanism presiding over these. Omitting here any men- 


tion of a local mechanism, remem- 
ber that there is in the medulla 
centre to which, in those glands 
that are reflexly excited, afferent 
nerves pass, and from which, in 
all glands, efferent nerves pass to 
theglands. These latter as shown 
in diagram IV consist of secretory 
fibres, vaso-constrictor and vaso- 
dilator fibres, which regulate the 
size of the arterioles, and probably 
also vaso-osmotic fibres which 
regulate the osmosis of the serum 
into lymph spaces. The parts of 
this mechanism on which a drug 
may act to affect secretion are : 

1st. The ends of the different 
nerves, whose function is to excite 
reflexly secretion. 


MECHANISM OF SECRETION 


uct 


and, The centre in the medulla, whose function is both automatic and reflex. 
3rd. The ends of the various efferent nerves distributed to the gland, and 
4th, The secreting cells, Elaborate experiments made on the submaxillary 


omtment or plaster. 


gland show the exact point where bella- 
donna acts to dry up the salivary secretion. 
It depresses the ends of the secretory 
nerves so that the stimulation is cut off 
from the secreting cells, it also appears to 
arrest osmosis of the serum from the capil- 
laries into the lymph spaces ; probably by 
depressing the ends of the vaso-osmotic 
fibres. It has also been proved that it 
dries up the secretion of milk and sweat in 
the same way. If it depressed secretion 
by acting on the centre in the medulla it is 
evident that it would be better to give it 
internally than locally, but since its action 
is peripheral it is far more efficient, when 
possible, to apply ittothegland. For this 
reason the liniment or ointment is often 
used to check the local sweating of the 
hands and feet. Again, when the child 
dies or for other reasons it is desirable to 
dry up the secretion of the milk, there is 
nothing better than the application to the 
breast of belladonna, either as liniment, 


It is far superior to remedies given internally, because it 


47 


diminishes the secretion without producing other actions on the system, unless 
it is applied in too large quantity. 

The reason why belladonnais suchaprompt and certain drug for drying up the 
breasts will be made clearer by reference to diagram V, by the aid of which I 
hope to show you that belladonna, instead of having only one action, has two local 
actions. The nervous mechanism presiding over the mammary gland consists, 
as shown in diagram, of : 

1st. The milk centre in the medulla. 

2nd. The efferent nerves, consisting of the secretory, vaso-dilator, vaso- 
osmotic nerves. 

3rd. The afferent nerves, consisting of the sensory nerves from the nipple. 
The secretion is excited, 

1st. By the continuous stimulation transmitted over the secretory fibers 
from the automatic centre in the medulla. 

2nd. By irritation of the nipple during sucking, which is transmitted by the 
sensory nerves to the milk centre and reflexly excites secretion. With this pre- 
fatory statement of the physiology of secretion, you are now prepared to under- 
stand the action of belladonna on the function of the mammary gland. 
Belladonna arrests secretion of milk: 


1st. By depressing the ends of the secretory nerves so that the gland is 
partially cut off from the influence of the milk centre. It also probably lessens 


osmosis. 
2nd. By depressing the ends of the sensory nerves of the nipple sothat they 


cannot reflexly excite secretion. 
Belladonna is also of service in mastitis probably by retarding osmosis from 
the capillaries, 


Ocular Mechanism. 


Atropine, when taken internally in large enough dose, dilates the pupil, par- 
alyzes the muscle of accommodation, and changes the intra-ocular pressure. But 
when dropped into the eye in a dose too small to produce systemic disturbance, 
it can cause this ocular phenomena. It has been proved by numerous exact ex- 
periments that its action is peripheral instead of central. Atropine dilates the 
pupil by paralyzing the ends of the third nerve distributed to the sphincter muscle 
so that it relaxes, and also by stimulating the ends of the sympathetic distributed 
to the dilator muscle, so that by its contraction the iris is drawn back. Morphine 
contracts the pupil by stimulating the root of the third nerve, hence it would be 
useless to drop morphine in the eye to contract the pupil, when it would have to 
be absorbed, and pass to the centre before it could act. 

Physostigmine contracts the pupil by stimulating the sphincter muscle, nico- 
tine by stimulating the ends of the third nerve. Atropine disorders vision so that 
a person cannot see near objects, as the letters in reading a book. It does this by 
paralyzing the ends of the third nerve which inneverate the muscle of accommo- 
dation. Atropine is of great service in treating some of the affections of the eye 
and, because its actions are peripheral, it is never used internally, but always ex- 
ternally in the treatment of diseases of the eye. Belladonna depresses the peri- 
pheral part of nearly every nervous mechanism, hence it has a wider field of 
usefulness in local treatment of the various ailments of the body than any other 
drug in the Materia Medica, 


48 


Belladonna Plaster In Vomiting. 


Bretanneatt paid great attention to the action of belladonna, and recom- 
mended it in the incoercible vomiting of pregnancy. Bretanneau used frictions 
of the extract diluted with water rubbed over the hypogastrium two or three 
times a day. In most instances this relieved the vomiting of pregnancy when all 
other means had failed. 

Belladonna applied thus will be absorbed by the skin, and relieve the morbid 
irritation of the uterus, which is the cause 
of the vomiting. It will also modify the ir- 
ritation of the stomach itself. 

The writer (Dr. Guéneau de Mussy), 
has applied this treatment, the external use 
of belladonna, for’ twenty-five years, to all 
descriptions of vomiting, whatever the cause 
might be. He found the plaster of bella- 
donna much better than the use of the extract. The plaster allows a continuous 
application to be made, is much more clean, and does not require the renewal of 
the application, and can be applied by the patient. There is also no staining 
the clothing. 

A piece of plaster usually about twelve centimeters in diameter is applied to 
the epigastrium. The plaster is allowed to remain twelve to fifteen days with- 
out being removed. It can then be renewed, but it is necessary not very often. 
Only one case among several thousand where the belladonna plaster lias been 
thus applied has any ill effects resulted. This was owing to an idiosyncrasy a 
the patient toward the drug. 

It is not to be asserted that this means always succeeds, but it has succeeded 
in a great number of cases. (Cited in original paper.) Generally it either en- 
tirely relieves the vomiting or greatly mitigates and affords speedy relief. 

The success of the plaster in vomiting suggested its use as a prophylactic and 
curative in sea-sickness and its vomiting distresses. In the cases (cited in the 
paper) there were those who could not put their foot upon a vessel without being 
tortured with sea-sickness; others who always arrived in port in a state of ex- 
haustion and semisyncope. Old travelers who suffered from repeated and 
obstinate vomiting during sea voyages, constant victims of sea-sickness, and 
novices were able by the proper application of belladonna plaster to be re- 
lieved of their distressing experiences, and to secure comfortable voyages even in 
rough and stormy passages. The method generally pursued was to apply the 
plaster over the epigastrium upon starting, which seemed to overcome partially 
or completely the tendency to vomiting. Sometimes it was necessary to renew 
the plaster during a rough sea, or in an extended voyage to replace it when it 
had been removed. In the worst cases a slight nausea, or slight attack of vom- 
iting, for the first hour at sea, was experienced. 

Great hopes are entertained of the benefits to be derived from the use of so 
simple a remedy, and it deserves an extended trial in this extremely painful 
affection, which has hitherto resisted all measures of relief. 


: Abstract translated from Ad- 
dress by 


Guéneau de Mussy, 
s Societe de Therapeutic, Paris. 


49 


Belladonna Locally. 


As an Anti-Galactagogue. 


Mammary abscess resulting from over distention of the lactiferous ducts is 
of frequent occurrence, and is alike a source of suffering to the patient and 
annoyance to the attendant. Every practitioner is familiar with the difficulties 
attending the management of the mother on the loss of her child, either on 
parturition or subsequently, in securing prompt and systematic removal of the 
lacteal secretion either by natural or artificial aids, until the functional activity of 
the organ is arrested or gradually ceases. It also occasionally happens that the 
mother, in attempting to wean her child, finds the established physiological ac- 
tivity of the mammary gland so persistent, 
that secretion continues even when its 
natural stimulant, nursing, is discontinued. 
so as to be productive of inflammation and 
suppuration. For some years I have been 
in the habit of using belladonna, applied 
locally, for its anti-galactagogue effect, and 
thus used have found it of signal benefit. My method of application is as fol. 
lows: I cut out acircular piece of belladonna plaster of sufficient size to cover 
the breast, with a hole in the centre about an inch in diameter for the nipple. 
I give the three following as typical cases of the efficacy of belladonna locally 
applied in arresting and preventing the lacteal secretion: Mrs. Cc.—Was first 
called to prescribe for mother on the day succeeding her child’s death; found both 
‘breasts swollen, hard and very painful from distention and inflammation of 
lacteal vessels. The integument covering breasts was livid, and I thought im- 
mediate suppuration unavoidable. I carefully applied belladonna plaster, covering 
both breasts; within a few hours of the application marked relief from pain was 
experienced. The plaster was allowed to remain several days. The inflam- 
mation gradually subsided, and there was neither formation of abscess nor further 
secretion of milk. Her getting up was prompt and in all respects satisfactory. 

Mrs. B.—Foetus had been dead three or four weeks prior tolabor. Applied 
belladonna plaster six or eight hours after labor. She experienced no secretion of 
milk whatever, and in three weeks was about the house, apparently in perfect health. 

Mrs. H.—Delivered November, continued to nurse her child until August, when 
she weaned it. Here the secretion continued to such a degree as to greatly ex- 
tend the breast, occasioning excruciating pain; and threatening inflammation and 
abscess. Belladonna plaster was applied over both breasts with the effect of re- 
lieving the pain in two or three hours, after which no furthur secretion took place. 

I have never failed in arresting the lacteal secretion by this method when the 
plaster has been of good quality and its adhesion to the integument perfect. It 
was a question in my mind whether the relation between the lacteal secretion 
and the physiological diminution in the tissues of the uterus following labor, was 
of such a nature as to unfavorably affect the health of the person were this 
function prevented or arrested; and I am happy to state, so far as I have observed, 
I could discover no injurious results. During the period of allaitement maternal, 
I consider the local application of belladonna of doubtful propriety ; when used it 
threatened mammary abscess from over-distention of the lacteal vessels, owing 
to the danger of absorption into the mother’s system, and its toxicological effect 


nr 


By 


M. W. Leavitt, M. D., 
Stockbridge, Mass. 


being produced upon the child through its mother’s milk. One such case of 
poisoning has been reported within the past few months. While proper pre- 
cautionary care will almost always enable us to avoid mammary abscess from the 
causes already mentioned, they are nevertheless frequently met with from neg- 
lect or lack of knowledge of either the attendant or the patient. I consider 
belladonna a valuable therapeutic agent in cases like those here narrated, and I 
ask such members of the profession as have not thus used it to give it an im- 
partial trial. 
Belladonna Plasters. 
In the Treatment of Diseases of the Skin. 


Medicated plasters, especially in the form of soap and lead, have long been 
employed with advantage in the treatment of diseases of the skin, The number 
of drugs used in preparing medicated plasters, and the crude method of their 
manufacture, have greatly restricted their use. Further, the cutaneous affections 
to which they have been applicable have been until recent years also compara- 
tively few. Little was either expressed or written upon remedies used in the form of 
medicated plasters until 1879, when I called 
attention to their utility in certain diseases of 


By 2 theskin. Since presenting my first obser- 
John VY. Shoemaker, : vation upon medicated plasters, I have con- 
AM. M.D; ¢ tinued to use them, and I am now able to 


Prof. of Materia Medica Phar-i report more agents so employed, better 
macology, Therapeutics, and: plasters, and more decided results. I have 
Clinical Medicine; Clinical? been greatly assisted recently in my obser- 
Prof. Diseases of the Skin in 3 vations by the use of fine, smooth and mod- 
the Medico-Chirurgical Col-:  erately adhesive plasters, produced through 
lege of Philadelphia. ' the co-operation of Mr. R. W. Johnson, a 

Snccncanoncnccnccencccccnncncccnansencooasss practical chemist of the firm of Johnson & 

Johnson, of New York. These plasters, so elegantly prepared, are spread on 

very fine muslin, They have as their basis a plaster mass which is composed of 

two parts of rubber, and one part of adhesive material. The drugs combined with 
this plaster are thoroughly incorporated. A plaster is thus formed which is fine, 
smooth and having moderately adhesive quality sufficient to make it stick close 
to the integument. These qualities are requisite for plasters from which medic- 
inal action is expected by their continuous contact with the skin. Too often 
plasters that are termed medicated are spread imperfectly on poor muslin or some 
other substance ; the basis is cheap and worthless, and the drug or drugs not 
properly incorporated. The resulting plaster is uneven, and the adhesive qual- 
ities very slight or too great, and the medicinal action negative or irritating to 
the diseased surface. Medicated plasters, to be beneficial in their application, 
should possess the qualities I have just recounted. Further, they are not of value 
in all forms of skin affections, but, as a rule, in chronic and localized diseases. 
Medicated plasters are valuable for applications for certain regions, particu- 
larly for the face, neck, lips and feet, where it is almost impossible often to have 
ointments remain in contact with the diseased surface. In addition, they fulfill 
the triple purpose of protection, with moderate compression and medicinal appli- 
cation at the same time. Again, they are cleanly, and can be kept in continuous 
application, owing to the possibility of their retaining the secretions of the parts, 


51 


and thus developing heat, moisture and irritating action upon the integument. 
As a rule plasters, if used upon chronic and localized skin affections, and net 
allowed to remain too long in contact with the skin, will not produce this unpleas- 
ant effect. In some of the affections of the skin the plaster should be removed 
every day or two from the surface, and the two parts cleansed with either oil, 
glycerine, water and soap or water and an alkali. 

In chronic Spots the plasters can usually be left in contact with the surface for 
several days or a week at a time, and then the parts should be cleaned just as in 
using other dressings and the application wiped off and reapplied. 

Belladonna plaster is one of the most effective plasters for relieving recurring 
patches of herpes, herpes zoster, neuralgia, and exalted and diminished sensibility 
of the skin. In isolated spots of the erythema, subacute and chronic eczema, it 
often relieves the accompanying obstinate itching and removes infiltration. 

Fissured eczema, especially of the fingers and toes, may often be controlled 
and healed by encircling the parts with the plaster every two or three days. Lo- 
calized, obstinate and irritable patches of vegetable parasitic diseases, especially 
ringworm and favus, may yield readily to the use of this plaster. The boracic 
acid in the combination is one of the most effective parasitic agents for the de- 
struction of vegetable organism, and the belladonna acts well in relieving cutane- 
ous irritation. The action of belladonna plaster in arresting the secretion of 
milk and in relieving inflammation of the breasts, is in this combination still more 
enhanced in its effect by the boracic acid. The absorption of the belladonna is 
found to take place more rapidly and the secretion of milk in the inflammation 
yield more promptly to the application of the two drugs in the form just suggested. 
Abscesses, boils, and carbuncles, inflamed sub-cutaneous glands, irritable scalds, 
frost bites, wounds and ulcers, may be benefited and at times speedily induced 
to heal by the local anodyne action of the belladonna’ and the antiseptic proper- 


ties of the boracic acid. . 
Local Therapeutics of Belladonna.* 
General Surgery. 
Belladonna is known to possess the power of arresting the secretion of milk. 
It is employed with advantage when, the 
geccccoccacesccansenccconcoscouansccsnsacses mother being unable to suckle her child, 
. B . the breasts become swollen and pain- 
y ful, and threaten to suppurate unless the 
Richard H. Harte, tension of the ducts be relieved. If the 
M.D., milk cannot be drawn off artificially, the 
secretion must suppressed. The dru 
Demonstrator of Osteoloy and} chouid be applied before inflammation hee 
Syndesmology, University of 5 set in, in which case the swelling and pain 
Pennsylvania; Surgeon tos; in the breast generally subside in a few 
the Episcopal and St. Mary's hours, and the gland becomes soft and pain- 
Hospital: Consulting Sur- less, Even inflammation has already 
pital; Cons g Sur be d the b 
. > gun and the breasts have become tense, 
geon to St. Timothy’s Hos- shining, hard, knotty, red, and acutely pain- 
pital. ful, an ointment of belladonna should be 
TUTTI iitiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin applied, and over it a warm flaxseed poul- 
tice, the entire breast being thoroughly 
supported. This treatment, continued for forty-eight hours, will often arrest the 
*These articles are abstracts from Hand Book of Local Therapeutics, 
edited by Harrison Allen, M.D. They are inserted by special permission of the 
editor and P. Blackiston, Son & Co., publishers, Philadelphia. 
52 


formation of pus. The method should be employed in all cases, no matter how far 
the mastitis advanced. Even when the agent fails to prevent suppuration, 
it reduces the inflammatory process and lessens pain. 


The addition of belladonna to iodine ointment increases its efficiency in the 
treatment of adentitis. This may be rubbed thoroughly into the inflamed part 
twice aday. An ointment composed of equal parts of ung. belladonna and ung. 
hydrargyri is of great service in conjunction with blisters, and rest, in the 
treatment of chronic synovitis of the knee joint. After counter-irritation, the part 
is to be enveloped in lint, on which is spread a thick coating of the ointment cov- 
ered with waxed paper and firmly bandaged. John Ashhurst often uses this 
treatment with great success in the local treatment of peritonitis, the abdomen 
being covered with lint on which has been spread the ointment, and the whole 
enveloped with a large hot poultice. The application should be continued until 
slight ptyalism is induced. 

In the treatment of boils, carbuncles, and abscesses, it is an excellent plan to 
smear the inflamed tissues with an ointment composed of equal parts of extract 
of belladonna and glycerine, and on this dressing to superimpose a hot poultice. 
Belladonna plaster is largely used forthe relief of pleurodynia, intercostal neuralgia, 

leurisy, and muscle pains of rheumatism. It is also applied over the region of the 
heart in functional and organic diseases of that organ. The skin must be thor- 
oughly cleaned with soap and water, and afterward washed with alcohol or 
vinegar. This will insure the plaster adhering, and at the same time promote 
absorption of the drug. Care must be exercised in the application of belladonna 
to large surfaces that have been denuded of epithelium. Belladonna used for its 
constitutional or its local effect, is much more active and prompt when in contact 
with the mucous membranes than when applied to the cutaneous surfaces. 


In the genito-urinary tract of the male, belladonna is of great service for the 
relief of spasmodic stricture of the urethra, or spasm of the neck of the bladder, 
following over distention, a condition often met with after a debauch. It is also 
of value in the preparatory treatment of strictures of small calibre, especially those 
of anirritable nature. In all classes of conditions it is imperative that the patient 
should be brought under the influence of the drug, preferably by means of a sup- 
pository of half a gtain of the extract of belladonna inserted into the rectum about 

alf an hour before the proposed introduction of the instrument. In many cases 
what would otherwise be an impermeable stricture, can readily be passed. In 
some cases of tight stricture it is advisable to smear the instruments with the 
ointment of belladonna instead of sweet oil. By this means the local effect of the 
drug is supposed to be made more prompt and active. Care, however, ought to be 
exercised that too much of the drug does not find its way into the system from the 
mucous membrane of the urethra. It must be remembered that belladonna is of 
little service when the retention of urine is due to an enlarged prostate, as it has 
a tendency to paralyze the vesical expulsive muscles; and where the desire to pass 
water arises from the presence of urine which the bladder fails to expel, the dif- 
ficulty is only aggravated by belladonna. In stranguary following the absorption 
of cantharides from large blisters, and also from the use of turpentine, belladonna 
combined with opium will prove a satisfactory remedy. In irritable spasms and 
neuralgic conditions belladonna may be combined with advantage with opium 
and camphor. 

In orchitis immediate relief may be obtained by enveloping the testicle in lint 
on which has been spread a thick coating of belladonna ointment, and applying 
over this fomentations of hot water. In chordee, Mr. Hill recommends a sup- 
pository of extract of belladonna and morphine. 

In fissure of the anus Dupuytren states that belladonna is of service in in- 
ducing relaxation of the sphincter. In the treatment of hemorrhoids belladonna is 
incorporated with many ointment bases. The selected part should be washed 
before the application of the ointment. Allingham recommends that when the 
masses are inflamed they be anointed with equal parts of extract of opium and of 
belladonna, and then be covered with a hot poultice, though in some cases a cold 
application may be found be to more grateful. 


53 


Diseases of the Skin. 


Belladonna is employed in the treatment of hyperidrosis, and in affections of 

the skin where excessive sweating interferes with the action of other remedies. 

In excessive sweating of the palms and 

queceeecececedeccacacnescennaanaaaanaaaanaag soles, or of the axi a, groins, etc., the 

: By tincture may be painted on the reviously 

ied surface once a day, and followed b 

Arthur Van Harlingen, the use of an astringent powder. y 

™ The dried and powdered extract of 

belladonna may be employed as a dusting 

the Philadelphia Polyclinicands: powder, and is particularly useful in eczema 

College for Graduates in Medi-$ of the groins, thighs, eee emi anus, and 

«ace + ai s neighboring parts, especially when occurrin 

cines; late Clinical Lecturer one in the summer season and accompanied by 

Dermatology in Jefferson Med-: excessive sweating. It should be carefully 

ical College; Dermatologist tos mixed with a dessicant powder, as oxide 

the Howard Hospital. = of zinc, subnitrate of bismuth, starch, or 

cccccccccccconsscccccscenccccncuccancacace’ fuller’s earth, The proportion should be one 

- to two drachms to the ounce of the excipient. 

The extract of belladonna may be employed alone. (The official ointment is 

48 grains to the ounce, but in referring to English works it is well to remember 

that the British preparation is twice as strong.) It is found useful as a dressing 

in painful ulcers, and also in other painful conditions of the skin as in eczema 

of the anus. It has a certain value also in pruritus ani. Theconstitutional effects 

should be guarded against. 

Atropine is employed for the same purposes as belladonna. Its external em- 

ployment is rare; usually it may be substituted by belladonna. 


Sg 
g, 
S) 
n 
e 
= 
& 
<e 
ct 
= 
oO 
ep. 
R. 
=} 
-_ 
B 


Diseases of the Ear, Nose and Throat. 


Solutions of atropine in three to five grains to the ounce, are of value in 
rheumatic otalgia. One or two drops may instilled at a time. Although its 
use is not contra-indicated by an opening in | 
the tympanic membrane, it is neces to 
By bear in mind the ease by which the medicine 

: may pass down the eustachian tube to the 
Harrison Allen, M.D., pharnyx. E. D. Williams recommended the 
Consulting Physician to the: atropine reatment as one of the best at our 
* command. Keene recommends atropine as 
rush nes pia for woneumP” = aremedy for tinnitus. For the treatment 
on vate Sars ©: of acute rhinitis the powdered leaves enter 
Philadelphia and St. Joseph’s 2 into the composition of a snuff as follows: 
Hospitals. =. pulverized leaves one scruple, morphine sul- 
cuccccccnsencnccccccccccccccccccncccncccast phate two grains, pulverized acacia a half 
ounce. Atropine is occasionally employed 
in the ‘local treatment of laryngeal phthisis. Inhalations of water, in w ich a 
small proportion of tincture of belladonna has been added, relieves the pain of 
chronic laryngitis. 


Diseases of the Eye. 


Atropine is always used in the form of the soluble sulphate or salicylate, the 
alkaloid itself being very sparingly soluble in water. It is useful as a powerful 
local anodyne, but chiefly by its action in dilating the pupil and paralyzing the 
muscle of accommodation. Its exact mode of action is not yet definitely deter- 
mined. It is known to be local. It must be absorbed and reach the iris directly 
before it can act. The aqueous humor of an atropinized eye contains sufficient 
atropine to dilate the pupil of another eye. It causes mydriasis when applied to 
the eye immediately after death, or, in experiments upon animals, after removal 
of the brain and spinal cord. Its action is upon unstriated muscle, and it does 
not affect the pupil of birds whose iris muscular fibres are of the striated kind. 


54 


Belladonna is extensively used in ophthalmic surgery As a mydriatic the 
full effect of atropine may be rapidly obtained by a solution of four grains to the 
ounce. When one drop of this is instilled in the conjunctival sac of a healthy eye, 
the dilatation of the pupil commences in less than n minutes, and attains its 

maximum, with complete immobility in 
aaa twenty or twenty-five. Atropine is now, 


By however, not so much used as formerly, for 

is purpose, as homatropine or cocaine in- 

Geo. C. Harlan, M.D., volves much less inconvenience to the 
Surgeon at Will's Eye Hospital, 3 patient. Its most important therapeutic ap- 
and to the Eve and Ear De- lication is in the treatment of iritis, in which 

u . it is the remedy above all others. ‘Ihe great 

partment of the Pennsylvania danger in this disease is adhesion of the iris 


Hospital ; Emeritus Prof. of 
Diseases of the Eye, Philadel- 
phia Polyclinic, ete. 


to the lens capsule, and, in a large propor- 
tion of cases, is practically over when the 

upil is once well dilated and its margin 
is thus withdrawn from contact with the 
lens. Unfortunately the action of the 
drug is resisted and too often can not 
be induced unless the application is used at the commencement of the affec- 
tion. The absorption of atropine by the cornea is diminished by the increased 
intraocular tension, and even before adhesions have occurred the hyperzemic and 
cedematous iris responds slowly and imperfectly to the action of the mydriatic. 
This action is materially promoted by the local abstraction of blood by means of 
leeching or cupping at the temple. When there is great increase of tension, 
paracentesis of the cornea is useful. Freshly formed adhesions may often be 

roken up, and even when the adhesions are firmer, partial and irregular dilata- 
tion can usually be obtained. 


In cases of nuclear cataract, with the periphery of the lens comparatively 
clear, great improvement of vision is often secured by keeping the pupil continu- 
ously dilated with atropine instilled two or three times aweek. By this proceed- 
ing and the careful correction of any existing defect of refaction, patients are 
often enabled to enjoy useful sight for months, or even years, before the whole 
lens becomes involved in the opacity. 


In the treatment of phlyctenular keratitis, which is usually accompanied by 
considerable ciliary irritation with contraction of the pupil, atropine is valuable as 
a powerful sedative, and by putting the pupillary and accommodative actions of 
the eye at rest. A one or two-grain solution may be combined with ten grains of 
boric acid, or, if there is much conjunctival discharge. with half a grain of alum. 
In wounds involving the cornea and iris, a four-grain solution is commonly used, 


Atropine is useful in most cases of keratitis, particularly in the acute form. 
with a painful and irritable condition of the eye. In cases of indolent corneal 
ulcer, or sloughing of keratitis, or when the intraocular tension is much increased, 
eserine sometimes acts better. 


Atropine is not now nearly so generally used as formerly after cataract ex- 
traction, and is thought to increase the tendency to prolapse of the iris, particu- 
larly in the case of operation without iridectomy. Many surgeons use eserine to 
draw the iris away from thecorneal wound. After the incision is healed, how- 
ever, atropine is useful by dilating the pupil and contracting the blood-vessels of 
the iris. If iritis sets in its use is imperative. Dilatation of the pupil before the 
operation is secured by the application of cocaine, which is now almost univer- 
sally used for its anzesthetic effect. It is customary to apply atropine both be- 
fore and after the operation for solution. 


Atropine acts more slowly on the accommodation than on the pupil. As, how- 
ever, there is a decided variation in the susceptibility of different individuals, and 
a ciliary muscle irritated by excessive strain resists the action of the drug, to be 
sure of the full effect it is customary to make the application three times a day for a 
day or two. Attained in this way the effect does not usually disappear entirely in 
much less than two weeks. 


55 


Dispensing Plasters. 


The dispenser has but little to do in dispensing belladonna or other 
plasters, prepared in rubber combination and cut into sizes. There are, however, 
some points that the careful dispenser should not overlook. Few drugstores have 
a perfectly convenient place for keeping plasters. They are thrown into closets, 
drawers, or under counters, from which they are dispensed under great incon- 
vience, covered with dust and injured by exposure. Yard rolls 
keep best standing on end in the can as they come from the maker. . 
After use they should be replaced at once; this will obviate errors 
and enhance their chances of their keeping more perfectly. 

Cut plasters should aiways be kept in their original boxes with 
the cover closed. The containers are made strong and tight to in- 
sure cleanliness and _ preservation, and 
the dispenser should see that the plasters 
are kept in them. Plasters should always be 
kept covered with the face-cloth. 


Sizes and Shapes of Plasters. SIDE. 

Belladonna Plasters (Johnson & Johnson) are put up 
in yard rolls 7 inches wide, 5 yard rolls 5 and 7 inches wide; cut (perforated) 
5 x 71¢ inches; breast plasters, round, 6 and 7 inches in diameter. From these 
sizes nearly every size or shape can be cut without waste. 

To cut rubber base plasters is very easy, but if they 
are cut with a knife it should be sharp and dipped in 
water just before cutting. A long blade shears, such as 
is used by tailors, is preferable to small 
scissors, and the plasters will cut more 
readily if the shears are wet. It is some- 
times a good practice to outline the size 
and shape on the plaster cloth with a pencil, and then cut to the 
line. Square corners on plasters should be trimmed or 
rounded off, as the corners are apt to rub loose and become a 
disagreeable annoyance. 

The illustrations show shapes for plasters in ordinary use. _ CHEST. 

The plasters for chest, shoulder, back and side can be cut 
from an ordinary porous plaster or from a piece of plaster about 5x 7inches. The 
ear plasters can be cut from a small piece. The breast plaster from a 7 inch roll. 

The following sizes are translated by permission from a 
lecture by Dr. Rudolph Kobart (Director des Pharmacolog 
is-chere Institutes zer Dorpat), on ‘‘ Emplastra.” 


SIDE, BACK, JOINTS. Flalf sheet paper size: (Rectangular about 7} x 114 
inches. (19 x 30 Cm.) 

Quarter sheet paper size: About 5§ x 7} inches. (15 

x 19 Cm.) This is also known as size for trunk. An ordi- 

nary Periorated (porous) plaster i is very near this size. 

laying card size: 24 x 34 inches. (6 x 9 Cm.) 

Size of surface of aman’s hand: ot x sg incnes. (8 8 Cm.) 
Size for neck: 2xinches. (5 x 6 
Size for arms: 14x2inches. (4x 5§ Cin, ) 
Size for calves: 28x 4inches. (7x 10 Cm.) 
Size for temples: }x1,inches. (2x 3 Cm.) RIGHT EAR. 


56 


SHOULDERS. 


BACK AND KIDNEY. 


Dr. Kobart says ‘‘that even if a plaster is made up and cut exactly right 
there is often a failure if it is not applied to the part where the effects are 
desired ; ¢. g., on a particular nerve-tract.” The physician, therefore, should 
either apply the plaster himself, or mark the exact place 
of application upon the skin of the patient, with a pencil. 

Small plasters should be delivered to the patient in an 
envelope flat, not rolled. 

The following directions, accompanying Johnson & 
Johnson’s Perforated Plasters, are worthy of perusal and 
should be impressed upon the 
mind of the patient; especially 
the portion which directs the 
part to which the plaster is applied to be ‘‘clean and 


dry. 9 


LEFT EAR. 


Directions for Using a Plaster. 


The part to which the plaster is to be applied 
should be dry and clean. The object of the printed 
cloth on the back of the plaster is to prevent the linen 
being soiled. It should not be removed. BREAST. 

The cloth on the face of the plaster should be removed by pulling it quickly. 
Having applied the plaster, rub it until it conforms perfectly to the skin. 

If the cloth on the adhesive side of the plaster should adhere too firmly, it can 
be easily removed by dampening, in which case the plaster should be wiped dry 
before applying. 

To remove the plaster : After loosening one corner take firm hold and take 
off the plaster by a succession of quick jerks. Do not attempt to remove by pul- 
ling steadily. A plaster should not be worn longer than necessary to produce the 
desired effect. 


Belladonna Plaster. 


NAMES, 


Emplastrum Belladonna. (U.S. Ph., Br. Ph., Germ. Ph., Belg. Ph., Swiss 
Ph., Neth. Ph., Russian Ph.) 

Emplatre d’ extract de Belladone. French Codex. 

Emplasto de Belladonna. Sp. 

Emplatre cum Extracto Belladonna. Fr. 

Tolkraut Pflaster G 

Belladonna Pflaster ° 

Tolkirschen Pflaster. 

Mekilworth Plaster. 

Bela Done Plaster. 

Dwale Plaster. 

Deadly Night-shade Plaster. 


57 


SP aaa 


Therapeutic Index. 


The following therapeutic uses for belladonna have been compiled from the 


‘best known and most recent authorities; only such indications as stand unques- 


tioned and are established by usage and actual practice have been given. The 
uses of atropine have only been indexed incidentally. 

The length of the index precludes more than a notice. In the column oppo- 
site the disease will be found one or more well known authorities, whose works 
may be readily consulted, as to dose and method of administration. The principal 
works quoted are given in the subjoined list. While many others might have 
been added only those convenient for reference are given. 


Authorities quoted:— 


AINSTIE.—Stimulants and Narcotics. 
BaRTHOLOW.—Materia Medica and Therapeutics. 
Brunton.— Pharmacology, Therapeutics, and Materia Medica 
Brown-SEQuARD.—Lectures on Paralysis. 
Beck.—Materia Medica and Therapeutics. 
CuLLEN.—Materia Medica and Therapeutics. 
FoTHERGILL.—The Practitioner’s Handbook of Treatment. 
GoopDELL.—Lessons in Gynecology. 
HamiLron.—Nervous Diseases, their Description, etc. 
Har&.—System of Therapeutics. 
LEISHMAN.—A System of Midwifery. 
MEIGs AND PEpPpER.—Diseases of Children. 
NAaPHEys —Therapeutics and Practice of Medicine. 
NIEMEYER.—A Text-book of Practical Medicine. 
NEALE.— Medical Digest. 
PoTTER.— Materia Medica, Pharmacy and Therapeutics, 
PHILLIPs—Materia Medica and Therapeutics. 
PIFFARD.—Materia Medica and Therapeutics of the Skin. 
RinGER.—A Hand-book of Therapeutics. 
SHOEMAKER.—Materia Medica and Therapeutics. 
TROUSSEAU AND Pipoux.—A Treatise on Therapeutics. 
THompson.—Lectures on Materia Medica. 
Woop, H. C.—Therapeutics, Materia Medica, etc. 
Warinc.—Practical Therapeutics, edited by Buxton. 
Woop, G. B.—Therapeutics and Pharmacology, 
and others, See also special articles on therapeutic uses of belladonna in 
this book. 


Belladonna. 
Indications for Use. Authority 
Abscess.—Plaster in contact with inflamed tissue to abort the ) Ringer, Bartholow, 
ing, H 


prelimin inflammation e. g. of breast, also to ease aring, Hare, 

pain and allay irritation. Shoemaker, Gasquet. 
Acne.— Locally of service to check the abundant secretions 2 Ringer 

. t] 

of the sebaceous follicles. Brunton. 
After-Pains.—As ointment. Brunton, Lieshman, 
Albuminuria.—Has been used to diminish the chronic in- 

flammatory condition left by an acute attack. Neale. 


58 


Angina Pectoris.—Belladonna plaster highly useful. 
(Plaster applied over pain and between shoulders.) 


Anus, Fissure of.—Locally relieves painful spasms of 
sphincter. 

Asthma.—Gives relief in paroxysms of asthma and spas- 
modic difficulty which accompanies emphysema by its 
influence on involuntary muscle 

Whenever possible should be used locally. 
(Plaster applied to chest and spinal-cord covered with 
a strip one or two inches wide.) 


Bladder, Irritable.—In the irritable bladder of children 
more especially causing nocturnal incontinence of urine. 


In nocturnal incontinence due to relaxation of sphinc- 
ter or irritable mucous membrane. 


In almost all varieties of morbid nervous irritability 
of the bladder, the drug is found soothing and effi- 
cacious. —Napheys. 

(Plaster may be applied over hypogastrium’. 


Boils.—Few local a plications give greater relief to pains, 
and irritation of boils and carbuncles, than belladonna. 


Plaster kept in contact with inflamed tissue. 


Brain Affections, Hypnotic.—In certain morbid states of 
the brain belladonna is hypnotic. 
The indication for its use are prostration, low state 
of the arterial tension, languid intracranial circulation, 
a contracted pupil and insomnia. 


Much may be expected from belladonna, but 
harm will be produced if there is much vascular ex- 
citement. —Bartholox. 


Bronchitis, Acute.—In acute bronchitis of children, to 
respiratory centre and to check secretion. 
- (Plaster may be applied to chest.) 


Bronchitis. Chronic—To stimulate respiratory centre. 
Belladonna arrests the secretion, while, through its 
action upon the nervous tissues, the sense of breathless- 
ness is overcome, and it will often be found a valuable 
adjuvant in the treatment of this disease. The same 
law applies to the treatment of caseous pneumonia. 
— Shoemaker. 
(Narrow strip of plaster, one to two inches wide, along 
the spine from neck to waist, or a piece about 5 x 7 
over chest, or both, may be used.) 


Calculi, Biliary.—Gives relief during spasm accompanying. 


Calculi, Renal and Vesical.—Sometimes relieves the pain 
of the passage of calculus. 


Cancer.— Local use ot belladonna of eminent service in the 
relief of the dreadful pains of cancer ; of great benefit 
1n cases of scirrhus and also cancerous and othe: pain- 
ful ulcerations. 

The pain of scirrhus of pylorus, a very distressing 
malady, has been greatly relieved by the application of 
Belladonna plaster to the epigastrium.—PAz//:ps. 


59 


Authority. 
Shoemaker. 


Brunton, 
Bartholow, 
ood. 


Brunton, 


Phillips, 
Har 


Thompson. 


Bartholow. Brunton, 
Brazabon, Goodell. 


Phillips, 
Shoemaker, Wood, 


Thompson. 


Gross. 


Brunton, Ringer, 
Heath, re. 


Waring, Bartholow, 
Shoemaker. 


Neale, 
Hare. 


Neale, Hare. 


Wood. 


Wood, 
Napheys. 


Brunton, 
Blackett, 
Bromfield. 


Carbuncle.—A valued remedy to relieve pain when locally 
applied. Heath recommends also internal use to pre- 
vent formation. 

Plaster covering inflamed tissue. 


Catarrh, Acute Nasal.—Useful in ordinary colds with sore 
throat and high fever. 
Very useful for a commencing cold in the head. 
—A. A. Smith. 
In acute nasal catarrh with profuse watery secretion. 


Cerebral Congestion.—One of the best remedies in all hy- 
perzemic condition of the brain or spinal cord. 


Cerebro Spinal Affections.—Especially of peripheral nerve 
spasm of facial muscles. 
Plaster applied at pressure points or on temples. 


Chest Pains.—In. pleurodynia, plaster useful. 
(Apply plaster over seat of pain, another at spinal 
origin of affected nerve.) 


Chordee.—With camphor and opium, internally wee the 
best results of remedies administered internally. 
Locally of service in epididymitis. 


Chorea.—Has been found of service in forms attended with 
much nervous irritability or excitement. 


Coccygodynia.—Plaster useful. 
(Apply over seat of pain). 
Colic, Intestinal_—Especially in children and intestinal 
spasm. 
(Belladonna plaster to abdomen.) 


Collapse of Cholera.—Useful to counteract depression of 
heart’s action. 

Conjunctivitis.—Locally and internally. 

Conjunctivitis Phlyctenular.—Or atropine in strumous oph- 
thalmia, of great service in relieving pain; constitu- 
tional treatment also required. 


Constipation.— Useful in spasmodic contraction of intestine 
leading to habitual constipation. 
Belladonna acts as a stimulant to the muscular folds 
of intestine and aids effect of purgatives.—De Costa. 
Belladonna plaster to abdomen as an accompaniment 
to bath and enema. 


Convulsions, Infantile.—Is of the highest value in certain 
congestive forms, as in fits due to the irritation of teeth- 
ing, or those referable to whooping-cough. 


Cough.—In nervous and spasmodic cough has proved ser- 
viceable. 

Belladonna plaster applied to chest useful in cough 
arising from uterine disease.—Shoemaker. 

(Also a two inch strip of plaster over dorsal portion 
of spine.) 

Cramp.—Muscular from injury to nerve trunk often remark- 
ably relieved, ‘late rigidity” occasionally removed or 
diminished, affording relief to an inconvenient deformity. 

| —Bartholow. 
(In long continued cramp plaster may be used over 
spinal origin of affected nerve.) 


~ €o 


\ 


Authority. 


Brunton, Bartholow, 
Napheys, Hare, 
Ringer, Phillips. 


Waring. 
Bartholow. 


Hare. 
Brunton, 


Phillips. 
Erb. . 


Ringer, Hare. 
Bartholow, Wood. 


Brunton, 
Hare, 
Napheys. 


Cullen, 
Neale. 
Brunton. 


Wood, 
Ringer. 
Bartholow. 


Brunton. 
Waring. 


Hare, Bartholow, 
Ringer, Thompson. 
Wood. 

Trosseau, 
Marchesod. 
Phillips 


Ringer, Wood, 
Waring, Shoemaker. 


Croup.—The essential cause of asphyxia in croup seems to 
be the paralysis more or less complete of the pneumo- 
gastric. This is shown by the difficulty and often im- 
possibility of producing vomiting. 

Belladonna being an excitant of the pneumogastric 
is specially indicated. 


Cystitis, Acute.—Is good remedy in almost every form 
of vesical irritation, when the vesical mucus 1s irrit- 
able, very useful in recent catarrh from chill with pain. 

(Plaster over hypogastrium.) 


Delirium.—In delirium of typhus. 


Delirium Tremens.—Of proven efficacy in congestion of the 
brain (PAz//2Hs); useful for the insomnia when coma 
vigil, cold surface, cyanosi.—Bartholow. 


Dentition.—In convulsions of dentition rarely fails to re- 
lieve. 


Diarrhea.—In colliquative diarrhoea. 
’ In acute dysentery belladonna both internally and ex- 
ternally is often efficacious. —Napheys. 


Diphtheria.—A commencement especially useful when ton- 
sils are swollen and there is little exudation ; later on, to 
support the heart.— Bartholow. 

specially useful in sore throat and tonsils are acutely 
inflamed.—Ringer. 

When there is much depression most excellent rem- 
edy. If used before exudation has spread and consoli- 
dated into membraneous plaques it seems to have power 
to hinder the formation of the exudation.—Bartholow, 


Dysmenorrhea,—In neuralgia and spasmodic forms, dark 
and fetid discharge, crampy pain, and cold chills, a 
suppository or mild injection together with internal 
administration will relieve (PAz//z24s); in neuralgic dys- 
menorrheea it will permanently relieve.—Bartholow. 

Plaster applied to sacrum often of benefit—NVapheys. 


Dyspepsia.—To lessen pain and constipation. 
laster over seat of pain.) 


Dysuria.—Has sedative effect in vesical and urethral irrita- 
tion. ; 
(Plaster over hypogastrium.) 


Eczema.—Internally or subcutaneously, in acute stage. 


Emissions and Erections.—In emissions, where genitalia are 
relaxed, atonic state; produces good results, even in 
extreme cases of emissions. 

Prevents erections and consequences useful in noctur- 
nal emissions due to irritation of the bladder. 
(Plaster over sacrum.) 


Epilepsy.—In petit mal in nocturnal epilepsy and in aneemic 
subjects; perseverance in its use is required. 

Especially of service in epilepsy from emotional ex- 
citement. Marked benefits are derived from its anti- 
spasmodic properties.— Wi7és. 

May be advantageously combined with bromides. 

—Gasguet. 
E pistaxis.— When of congestive origin. 


61 


¢ 


Authority. 


De Ponteres. 
La Union Medicale. 


Goodell, 
Bartholow, 
Phillips. 


Brunton. 


Brunton, 


Brunton, 
Phillips. 


Delping, Wood, Hare. 


Ringer. 


Phillips. 


Bartholow. 


Waring, 
Bartholow, 


Heustis. 


Brunton. 
Trosseaux, Wilks, 


Harley, Phillips, 
Bayle, Hamilton. 


Brunton, Phillips. 


Erysipelas.—Possesses a real curative power especially in 
idiopathic and facial erysipelas. 
as astonishing power in superficial and non-vesicu- 
lar forms, also when erysipelas attacks the brain, and 
in phlegmonous type.—PAzllzps. 
so when adynamia; if much fever, may be combined 
with digitalis or aconite; when much depression with 
uinine (Bartholow); of service locally applied over 
the surface (Quazn); should be used both internally and 
externally, may be combined with aconite.—Ringer. 


Erythema.—Useful in cases resisting ordinary treatment. 


Eye Diseases.—Locally and internally in iritis, conjunctiv- 
itis, and other inflammations (which see). 
Locally of great service in strumous ophthalmia to re- 
lieve pain. 


Feet.—To check fetid secretions. 
(Apply plaster to soles of feet.) 


Fevers —In the eruptive fevers, especially scarlatina 
(Sar thorow); in typhus, with delirium, insomnia, pain- 
sensitiveness to light and sound. In all hyperemic 
states of brain and spinal cord. Is prophylactic often 
against scarlet fever (PAz//zfs). In delirium, also excel- 
lent in typhus.—Ringer. 

Very useful in febricula, especially for head symptoms 

and constipation.—PAzlips. 


Flatulence.—If due to paresis of intestinal walls. 
(Plaster over abdomen.) 


Gastralgia and Gastrodynia.—Is useful in painful affections 
' of the stomach. In pain accompanying gastric ulcer, 
pyrosis, irritative dyspepsia. 
(Plaster applied to the epigastrium or over the dorsal 
portion of the spine.) 


Glandular Enlargements.—Of great value for anodyne. 
Has some antisudorific action. 
Resolvent or discutient powers formerly claimed. 


Gout.—The best remedy to effectually and speedily soothe 
pain.—PAillips. 


Hzmorrhage.—For irritable and bleeding rectal ulcers. 
(Intestinal.) 


Hzmorrhoids.— 


Hay Fever.— When nasal secretion is very profuse. 
—Bartholow, 
(Plaster sometimes useful applied to chest.) 


Headache.—Frequently given in frontal headache, especially 
at menstrual period, or from over study and fatigue. 
—hinger. 
Relieves cerebral congestion, and distress from light 
and sound (PAzd/2ps); pain over brows and eyeballs 
—often due to stomach or uterine derangements— 
especially in young women.—Pofter. 
(Plaster over stomach or sacrum according to origin 
of pain.) 


62 


Authority. 


Wood, 
Napheys. 


Bartholow. 


Potter. 


Waring, 
Carter. 


Ringer, 
Hare. 


Piffard. 


Bartholow. 


Ringer. 
Bartholow. 


Brunton, Pariera, 
Gattaker, Cullen, 
Blackett, Bromfield. 


Neale. 


Brunton, 
Phillips. 


Neale. 


a ad 


Heart-Burn.—Waterbrash. 
(Plaster over epigastrium). 


Heart Depression.—Counteracts sudden and tem de- 
pression of heart’s action e. g. collapse of cholera. 
—Bartholow. 


Heart, Dilatation of.—Belladonna is one of the best agents 
that can be employed to overcome irregularity of the 
action of the heart and to relieve pain. 


A plaster 4x4 to be worn over cardiac region. 
Heart, Fatty.— 


Heart, Irritable-—Belladonna plaster persistently worn is 
productive of much good.—DeCosta. 


Heart, Palpitation of.— Useful in cardiac strain. 
Very often rest in bed with a Belladonna plaster over 
the heart soon causes palpitation to cease. 


Belladonna plaster will often prove most acceptable for 
the relief of cardiac neuroses such as occur in the course 
of long continued disease, as typhoid fever, rheumatism, 
phthisis, pulmonalis, and the peculiar irritabilit 
which accompanies aneurism, thoracic, and abdominal. 
as well as that which occurs as an accompaniment of 
anzmia ; the use of belladonna plaster is highly recom- 
mended in case of angina pectoris, but of course this 
method of-procedure is but a temporary expedient, and 
is not curative in the strict sense of the term. 


Heart, Valvular Disease.—Belladonna is superior to digitalis. 
Plaster over the heart combined with rest efficacious. 
—A.7. Waters. 


Hemicrania.—If due to vaso-motor spasm, the face being 
pallid ; also if disease be of reflex character. 


Hernia.—In strangulated, anti-spasmodic action contributes 
toward spontaneous reduction; relieves vomiting. 
Applied direct to hernia often causes reduction in 

size of tumor. 


Herpes Zoster.—In intercostal neuralgia attendant upon 
erpes zoster gives effectual relief. 
(Plaster over seat of pain and at spinal origin of affected 
nerve.) 


Hiccough.— Useful for antispasmodic action. 
(Plaster over epigastrium.) 


Hydrophobia.—In all hyperemic states of the brain and 
spinal cords, is one of the very best remedies. 


Hyperidrosis.—Of drugs, belladonna antagonizes hyperi- 
drosis of jaboranda.—Bartholow. 


Hysteria.— 


Incontinence of Urine in Children.—Valuable in these 
cases. 


(Plaster over sacrum or hypogastrium or both.) 
63 


Bartholow, 


De Costa. 
Brunton, 


Shoemaker, 


Napheys. 


Hamilton. 


Lagorsky. 


Magleria. 


Bartholow, 
Waring. 


Wood, Hare, 
Shoemaker, 


Brunton, 
Phillips. 


Neale. 


Sir H. Thompson, 


Diseases Urinary Ore 


Gans. 


Inflammation.—Belladonna, being stimulant to circulatory 
apparatus is useful in gouty and rheumatic inflammation 
and cystitis. 

A remedy of great efficacy in certain acute inflamma- 
tion of air passages. 

Pain of inflamed parts, especially gouty and rheu- 
matic inflammation, can often be more speedily and 
effectually soothed by this remedy than by any other. 

In erysipelas, inflammatory sore throat, ancephalitis, 
gouty and rheumatic inflammation, cystitis, pneumonia, 
etc.; both locally and internally in inflammation of the 
eye; is effectual in inflammation which threatens to 
end in abscess. 

In many forms no remedy more useful, notably 
scarlet fever, erysipelas, low fevers. Inflammation of 
the eyes, boils, carbuncles, etc., useful externally and 
internally. 

External or local inflammations. 

Mamma; acute inflammation. 

Neck ; inflammatory swelling of glands. 

Inflammation of lower jaw depending upon areolar 
abscess. 

Painful sympathetic affections. 

Sympathetic bubos. 

Applied by covering well affected part. 

(Plaster over affected part in early stages.) 


Insomnia.—Indications for its use coma vigil, restlessness, 
weak action of heart, cold surface, cyanosis, clammy 
sweat. 

Hypnotic in some morbid states, especially marked 
by prostration, low arterial tension, contracted pupils. 

In conditions of hyperzemia of cerebro-spinal centres 
excitement with elevated pulse increased arterial ten- 
sion will do harm. 


Intestinal Obstruction.—Often successfully employed when 
from want of tone and partial spasm. 


Intussusception.—Has been successfully used. 


Iritis.—Internally and locally of greatest value in iritis, 
syphylitic, idiopathic, painful iritis, rheumatic, scrofu- 
lous ophthalmia. 

To allay deep seated pain which so generally accom- 
panies these diseases. 

To prevent.iris from becoming implicated in the ulcer- 
ative process. 

Sometimes atropia fails or irritates, the ointment or 
plaster may then be applied to temple with success. 


Labor.—Topically of great service in long protracted labors 
from rigidity of os and cervix. 


Lactation Excessive.—Internally and locally. 
Laryngismus Stridulus. 


Leucorrhcea.—For over-secretion and pain. 
(Plaster over sacrum.) 

Locomotor Ataxia.—Belladonna and ergot highly recom- 
mended (Brown-Seguard); gives great relief to pain. 
—Atkinson. 

(Plaster over the spine.) 


64 


Phillips, 
Ringer. 


Bartholow. 


Heath, 
London Prac., 1868. 


Hare. 


Ringer, 


Bartholow. 


‘Trosseat. 


Waring. 

Neale, Ringer, 
Waring, Phillips, 
G. B. Wood, Hare. 


Lanson, 
London. 


Hamilton. 


Shoemaker. 


Brunton, Wood, 
Hare, Shoemaker 


Ringer. 


Brunton. 


Napheys. 


Lung Diseases.—Is frequently of great benefit in pul- 
monary cedema, to retard exudation of serum and to 
counteract the failure of heart. 

(Plaster applied to chest.) 


Lumbago.—Plaster very useful for persistent lumbago 
especially when confined in one spot. 


Lymphangitis.—Local application freely applied of great 
service when pain is severe. 

Mania.—Is useful especially in monomania, with fixed 
hallucinations, though a large dose causes a temporary 
insanity ; one of the very best remedies in all hyper- 
gemic conditions of the brain. 


Mastitis.—See Lactation. 


In recent induration and in inflammation remarkable 
effects are produced by belladonna in arresting secre- 
tion of milk.— Atkinson. 

Combined with morphine and chloral, when much 
pain (Bartholow); especially useful to check secre- 
tion of milk when inflammation is imminent (Xznger), or 
when distended with milk (PAz//zfs); when inflam- 
mation has set in continuous application of belladonna 
for 24 hours often arrests it.— Aznger. 


(Mastodynia.—Belladonna plaster very useful. 


Melancholia.— 


Meningitis, Cerebro-Spinal.—In all hyperzemic conditions 
of brain and spinal cord, especially during stage of ex- 
citement. 

Strongly to be relied on, even when brought on by 
external violence. 


Metritis.— Simple. 


Belladonna plaster over hypogastrium will give ease 
and subdue inflammation. 


Migraine.—When due to vaso dilated conditions, best 
remedy to use in urticaria due to cedema of the con- 
nective tissue of the skin; as the result of an active 
vaso-motor dilation. 


Myelitis.—In various forms of myelitis, belladonna plaster 
lessens congestion of the spinal cord and diminishes 
its reflex irritability. 

In connection with other treatment a large bella- 
donna plaster on the back will give decided effects.— 
Brown-Sequard. 


Myalgia.—Belladonna plaster often successful. 
Apply over pain. 
terine, ovarian, dysmenorrheea. 
Painful and irritable states of uterus. 
In all these cases of course it is necessary to remove 
if ible all local or temporary sources of irritation. 
hey are benefited by the application of belladonna 
plaster to the sacrum continued for several weeks; keep- 
ing watch for toxic symptoms. 
_ Plaster should be removed in 3 to 5 days and renewed 
if necessary. 
65 


Authority. 


A. A. Smith 


Phillips, 
Bartholow, 
Ringer. 


Waring. 


Trousseatt, 
Phillips. 
Fordyce Barker, 
Playfair. 


Wood. 
Hare, 


Sir Astley Cooper. 
Neale. 


Brunton, 
Phillips, 


Phillips. 


Robt. Barn 
London. % 


Liegois. 


Brunton. 


Neale, Ringer. 
Brunton, Bartholow. 


Anstie, Wood. 


, Authority. 


Nausea.—See Vomiting. Neale. 
Nephritis Acute.—(Bright’s Disease.) Ringer, Neale, Wood. 
Will calm nervous irritation and at the same time i . 
contract the dilated vessels. feu Bet Con Medicas, 


Neuralgic Affections.—Belladonna displays its most useful 
wers; few remedies more effectual in their cure. 
ay be used both internally and externally when the 

pain is near the surface, or in any position to which near 
access can be obtained, generally advisable to depend on 
the topical use of the remedy, or to employ it in the two 
methods jointly. The general rule is to administer it 
in quantities sufficient to produce obvious effects with- 
out going so far as to cause delirium, stupor or dimness 
of vision approaching blindness. Plaster an effectual 
form of application. ° 

In neuralgia of the limbs or trunk the application 
should be made as near to the seat of pain as possible ; 
and in these, the endermic method will often advis- 
able. In sciatica, which is one of the most obstinate 
forms of the affection, the blistered surface should be 
made in the course of the nerve as it passes out of the 
pelvis. . 

(Plaster over spinal origin of affected nerve.) 

In the internal neuralgic affections of the abdomen, 
as gastralgia, enteralgia, nephralgia, etc., the external 
use of the medicine should be resorted to when the com- 
plaint is complicated with vomiting or purging, while 
opium is used internally. (Plaster over pain) The 
contrary condition of constipation, it would be better to 
try the effects of belladonna internally.—G. B. Wood. 


Belladonna whether used internally or externally Wood tt 
ranks first among sedatives and anodynes in neuralgia. Ww 
Must be persisted in by application. In vicinity of 2 Brown-Sequard, 
nerve has special utility in tic douloureux and sciatica; ( Shoemaker, 
- also in peri-uterine and dy smenorohceal neuralgias. Atkin, 
—Bartholow, ; 
Plaster over pain and origin of affected nerve. 
Spinal irritation, intercostal neuralgia. Plaster very 
useful along course of nerve. Continue for several ( Hammond, 
days.— 7 rosseau. 


And among neuralgic pains those are by far the most 
frequently and effectually relieved the main source of 
which is some peripheral disturbance. Belladonna is 
much more serviceable, for example, in the various 

inful affections which are produced by an irritated 
state of the pelvic organs (especially in females) than in 
neuralgia of the face.—PAzlizps. 

In neuralgia of the eye belladonna plaster around 
the orbit relieves exalted sensibility, acute pains and in- 
tolerance of light.—A udibert. 


New Growth.—Polypi, laryngeal warts, etc. The wth 
of new formation often checked by application of bella- 2 Ringer, Wood, 
donna plaster.—Napheys. Bartholow, ©. 


Orchitis.— When inflammation has subsided. Waring. 


Ovaritis.— Useful in the pelvic spinal and neuralgic pains. John Tilt. 
Belladonna plaster applied over ovary or sacrum. 


66 


‘ Pain and Nervous Irritation.—Abates and in some cases 
completely removes pain. 

To be successful requires in many cases to be perse- 
vered in until dryness of the throat and disordered 
vision is produced.—Parezra. 

Stands in front rank in list of sedatives and anodynes 
as an internal and external remedy but like all other 
remedies occasionally fails. —W. aring. ; 

Especially adapted. for cases marked by spasmodic 
twitchings of the muscles whether manifested by cramp 
or starting of the limb. 

(Plaster over spine or over seat of pain or cramp.) 

Action should be watched or discontinued when con- 
stitutional effects manifest themselves. 

Local application should be applied along the course 
of the nerve. 


Paralysis.—When depending on chronic inflammation of 
the cord (Ringer); Plaster externally along spine, 
with ergot internally, —Brown-Sequard. 


Pemphigus.— 


Perspiration.— Useful in idiopathic local sweatings. Best 
remedy we have for night sweats. Especially useful 
for weakly children who sweat profusely. 


For excessive and offensive perspiration. 
Pertussis.—See Whooping Cough. 


Pharyngitis. —Useful in acute attacks (Bartholow) ; when 
temperature is high (Rznger) ; relaxes the pharyngeal 
muscles. ; 


Phiegmasia Alba Dolens.—Locally with mercury often of 
much benefit. 


Phlegmon.—Certainly efficacious. 
(Plaster over involved surface.) 


Phimosis.— Locally has proved effectual. 
Photophobia.—To eye. 


Phthisis.—Locally for pain in muscles. (Plaster over 
pain).—Brunion. 

Best remedy for night sweats (are); useful remedy for 
the case as inflammation in the stage of deposit imme- 
diately succeeding the stage of catarrhal inflammation 
and before softening and extrusion. 

No remedy so generally effective for sweats of 
Phthisis.—Bartholow. 

Seems to act beneficially on the general course of the 
disease.—Napheys. 


Pleurisy.—Belladonna plaster ‘most useful to relieve pain 
in old adhesions. 
(Apply over pain.) 


Pleurod —(See chest pains.) 
ter very useful as local anodyne. 


67 


Authority. 
Bailey. 
Use of Belladonna. 


Fuller 


Trousseau, 


Bartholow. 


Wood, 
Hare, 
Ringer. 


Thompson. 
Hare, Neale, Wood. 


Neal 
Wood, 
Brunt 
Waring.’ 
Brunton. 
Brunton, 
Waring. 


Ringer. 


Fothergill 


Hare, 
Brunton, — 


Ringer, Hare. 


Pneumonia.—Acting as stimulant to circulatory apparatus. 
As an adjuvant to digitalis in infantile pneumonia 
to soothe the irritable nervous system and curtail su- 
perabundant secretion. — 
Useful in collapse. 
(Plaster along spine and over chest) 


Prurigo and Pruritus.—Controls cases which have re- 
sisted ordinary treatment. 


Ptyalism.—A very useful antisudorific. Effectual in mer- 
curial ptyalism and that of pregnancy. 


Puerperal Convulsions.—Of verified utility. 


Puerperal Fever.—When local inflammation is attended 
with excruciating pain (of common occurence) apply 
over suffering part a blister removing cuticle and then 
lay on a belladonna plaster; Belladonna and opium 
sometimes used. ; 

The effect is so tranquilizing as to do away with the 
necessity of narcotics internally, must be carefully 
watched for symptoms of narcotism. May be continued 
as long as there is abdominal tenderness. 


Puerperal Mania.— Useful in collapse. 


Rectum, Diseases of.—Locally in fissure and irritable 
ulcers; internally and locally to remove ulcers, also 
excellent in burning pain following defaction. 


Rheumatic and Gouty Disease.—May be treated with 
the internal and external use of belladonna; has been 
employed even in acute rheumatism. In the nervous 
or neuralgic forms of these diseases that belladonna 
is especially indicated ; frequently serviceable in the 
shifting forms of subacute rheumatism without fever ; 
and, in the chronic forms of the same disease is a stan- 
ard remedy, given in connection with one or more 
various alteratives used. In this form of the disease it 
may be also advantageously employed locally, in the 
form of plaster; applied to the joints, over muscular 
parts into the small of the back in lumbago, and to the 
side in pleurodynia. 


Rheumatism, Acute.—In rheumaticfever action is speedy, 
direct and enduring, rendering opium necessary. 
Application over the affected joints as soon as the 
first indication of inflammatory action arises in the 
part. 


Rheumatism, Chronic.—Causes immediate cessation of mi- 
gratory or flying pains, but affects fixed rheumatic pains 
only slightly 
laster over pain.) 


Scarlatina.—During the eruptive state, when depression 
exists, and rash is imperfectly evolved.—( Bartholow.) 
As prophylatic has been recommended; is often 
efficacious as prophylactic (P&zl/zps); the prepon- 
derance of evidence is certainly in favor of such use of 
the drug (Pifard) ; ‘this virtue is claimed by imposing 
authorities.— 7 rousseau, 


Scarlet Fever.— 
68 


Authority. 
Brunton, Hare, Wood 


Brown. 


Bartholow. 


Hare, Neale, 
Bartholow, Wood. 


Phillips, 
Brunton. 


Atkinson, 
Crawcour. 


Wood. 


Ringer, 
Phillips, 


G. B. Wood. 


Neale, 
Harley. 


Brunton. 


Osborn, 


Neale. 


Sciatica.—Of utility, relief if afforded apt to be permanent. 
P Local applications can be employed with great bene- 
t. 
Plaster to be laid along course of nerve; also over 
sacrum. 


Sea-Sickness.—Plaster useful in vomiting. 
(See article by De Mussy, this volume.) 


Skin Diseases.—Belladonna is useful in the cutaneous 
necrosis, prurigo, herpes zoster, erythema, eczema, 
etc. Cases which resist ordinary treatment yield to 
belladonna. 

Hyperidrosis (colliquative sweating), unilateral sweat- 
ing and other forms of profuse transpiration through 
the skin are arrested by internal and local application 
of belladonna. . 

(See article by John V. Shoemaker, this volume.) 


Sneezing.— 


Spasm or Muscular Rigidity.—Spasms of the stomach, 
bowels, ureters, hepatic ducts, etc., and those of 
tetanus, do not yield readily to belladonna. Has been 
used in tetanus, and in certain colicky affections with 
success. . 

In painless spasms is often highly beneficial, not only 
yields relief but serves, as in neuralgia, to make a per- 
manent impression on the nervous centres. (Plaster 
over sacrum.) 

The patient should be kept under very moderate 
influence for a long time, with occasional intermissions. 
In muscular rigidity, its local application has been 
found very useful in a number of different cases. 
(Plaster over rigid muscle; also over spinal origin of 
affected nerve.) Constrictions of the sphincters of the 
anus and neck of bladder, and in spasm of the urethra, 
and in the urethral affection. (Plaster over sacrum.) 
Rigidity of the os uteri in delivery is said sometimes to 
yield to the local application. It has been employed 
externally in strangulated hernia, to produce relaxation 
of the abdominal muscles.—G. B. Wood. 

(Plaster over hernia or cramp.) 


Spermatorrhceea.—In relaxation of the genital organs where 
there is no dream nor orgasm; one fourth of extract and 
a grain and a half of zinc sulphate. 
(Plaster over sacrum.) 


Spinal Irritation.—Gives way to belladonna more readily 
than to aconite. 
(Plaster along spine.) 


Spinal Paralysis and Softening.—In chronic inflammatory 
conditions. 


Strabismus.—For the strabismus of encephalitis—PAz//:ps. 


Stricture.—Csophagus. 
Plaster over sternum useful as a palliative. (Also 
over the cervical and dorsal spine.) 


Sunstroke.— 


69 


Authority. 


Ringer 
Bartholow, 
Napheys. 
Ainstie. 
Neale. 


Bartholow. 


Piffard. 


Neale. 


Bartholow, 
Ringer. 


° Ringer, . 
Bartholow. 


Ringer. 
Waring. 


Brunton. 


Suppression of Urine.— Whether accompanied by uwrania 
or not belladonna is indicated, as both the sluggish cir- 
culation and the torpid kidney are simultaneously 
aroused by the drug there is ground for expecting a 
restoration of the renal secretion. 

(Plaster over kidneys.) 


Syncope.—In cardiac syncope. 


Syphilis.—Locally with mercury for secondary ulcerations 
vPee rectum.—(PAil/zbs). Sometimes useful instead of 
mercurials.—S/urgzs. 


Testicle, Diseases of.—In neuralgia of the testis. As an 
ointment with glycerine in epididymitis or orchitis, 


Tetanus.—Acts by reducing congestion of the blood ves- 
sels of the spinal cord and its membranes.—Brown- 
Seguard. 

pine and rigid muscles covered with belladonna 
plaster under careful watching may be renewed every 
12 hours. 

Belladonna should also be given internally and ap- 
plied < direct to wound. Should be continued for some 
weeks. 

Local application of aconite and belladonna to 
wound diminishes irritability of wounded part. Suc- 
cessfully used in many cases: the extract internally, 
and locally to wound (Waring); gr. 1.125, atropine 
injected into muscle (Brunton); bleeding, vapor-baths, 
and large doses of belladonna have cured tetanus.— 
Trousseau. 

Spine and rigid muscles to be covered with bella- 
donna plaster.—Olzver, London. 


Throat, Sore.—Relieves spasm of the ph geal muscles; 
also when the tonsils are much inflamed and swollen. 
Aphonia of the vocal chords and hysterical aphonia 
may be quickly relieved..— Bartholow. 
In tonsillitis internally until constitutional signs are 
produced, also externally to throat.—Vapheys. 


Tic Douloureux.—Of special utility, relief apt to be per- 
manent.— Bartholow. 
Ranks first among sedatives and anodynes in this 
and other neuralgic affections.— Anstze. 
Plaster over affected part and at nape of neck. 


Tonsillitis.—Often of surprising efficacy.—PAidlips. 


Torpid Fevers (vide Fevers).—Excellent results have been 
obtained from the use of belladonna. It is indicated 
when there is low, muttering delirium, subsultus. and 
stupor and is contra-indicated in the condition of delirium 
—Bartholow, 

Thought to counteract the poison of typhoid.— 
Waring. 
Torticollis,—Liniment. 
Trismus.—Extract in large doses. 


Typhlitis.— 


Authority. 
Harley. 


Brunton. 


Hutchinson, 
Oliver. 


Napheys. 


Hare, 
Neale, 
Ringer, 


Phillips, 


Hawks, 
Tanner. 


Brunton, 


Brunton. 
Neale. 
Brunton. 


Typhus Fever.—To cleanse and moisten the tongue; con- 
trols the delirium, slows and strengthens the pulse, 
reduces the temperature, shortens the course of disease 
(Ringer, Philip). In early stages relieves severity 
in symptoms.—/Vea/e. 


Ulcers and Sores.—Has a remarkable influence over various 
ulcerative processes.—Phillzps. 


Variola.—Succe ssfully used both as prophylactic and cura- 
tive agent (Erasmus Wilson); to relieve dilatation 
of pupil and some stupor, found effectual,— Waring. 


Vomiting of Pregnancy.—Plaster over the epigastrium very 
effective in’ relieving. 
Plaster useful also in vomiting cerebral or reflex, in 
seasickness. 
Internal use has not same effect ; other narcotics do 
not produce same benefits. 


Whooping Cough.—Its efficacy depends in part on its 
lessening necessity of respiration, as well as its power 
in obviating spasm of the bronchial tubes and of 
decreasing the susceptibility of the bronchial mem- 
brane to the influence of the exciting causes of parox- 
ysms. 

Most effective in spasmodic whooping cough. In 

order to be curative physiological effects must be pro- 

duced. Most obvious effects in those cases character- 
ized by profuse bronchial secretion.— Bartholow. 


Belladonna plaster applied to chest and spine may 
be used to advantage. 


Yellow Fever.— 


71 


Authority. 


Wood. 


Fannier, 


Barth 
Bartholow, 
Greenhadough. 


Schaeffer, 
Wetzler, 
Laeneck, 
Diseases of Chest, 
Thompson. 


Beck. 


Fuller, 
Gawaway, 
Thompson. 


Brunton. 


LANE MEDICAL LIBRARY 
Sranrorp University Mepicat CENTER 
STANFORD, CALIFORNIA 94305 


Ignorance of Library's rules does not exempt 
violators from ities. 


Johnson & Johnson. 
Belladonna, 


‘asu-a-70-20082 


