This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized 
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the 
information in books and make it universally accessible. 

Google' books 

http://books.google.com 




Ernest Fairfield or, 

Two terms at St Andrews 

Arthur Noel Malan 


f Digitized by 


Google 




I 



Digitized by Google 


Digitized by 



ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


Digitized by Google 



Digitized by 



Digitized by 




and then, staring at the old man from head to foot, he said 
do you live in that house ? ’ ” 


Hullo 


Frontispiece . 


See page 18. 


GooqIc 




ERNEST FAIRFIELD 


OB 


<ltoo Sterns at St, Infcrcto’a 


BY THE 


KEY. A. N. MALAN, M.A., F.G.S., 

AUTHOR OF 

‘THE YOUNG GUARD OF THE KING’S ARMY,’ ‘THE HIGHFIELD 8TORIE8,' 
ETC., ETC. 



ORIGINAL ILLUSTRATIONS 


LONDON AND NEW YORK : 
FREDERICK WARNE AND CO. 
1888. 

[All right* reserved.] 


253 2 


; 6 \ 

gtfized by LiOO^ 1C 


4 ' 




Digitized by Google 


EAGLE HOUSE BOYS, 
PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE, 
THIS STORY IS DEDICATED 
BY 

THE AUTHOR 


FLORE AT JSTERNUM STANS AQUILINA DOMES 


Digitized by Google 



Digitized by 


Googl 



CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER I. 

SIN VINCENT. 

PAGE 

Lewesdon Hill— The view over two channels — Beechen- 
hurst — Old John — The Grange — St. Vincent — The 
violoncello — Remembrances— A surprise. . .11 

CHAPTER II. 

MAURICE AT COOMBE GRANGE. 

Ernest at work — His character — Maurice Elton arrives — 

Mrs. Fairfield — A snatch at Homer — The violin — The 
Colonel’s enthusiasm . . . . .23 


CHAPTER III. 

THE SEAL OF THE COVENANT. 

A true home— A mother’s charge— Dr. Patrick O’Grady 
— The last walk — The threefold cord — Armstrong — The 
lost brother — The seal of the covenant . . .36 


Digitized by Google 



viii 


CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER IY. 

ST. ANDREW’S. 

PAGE 

The College — Ernest in the Shell — His first false step — 
Johnson — Xenophon and Bohn — Found out — The 
coming trouble . . . . • .45 


CHAPTER Y. 

THE AREOPAGUS, AND FOOTBALL. 

The Council of Prefects — The senior — The ground-ash — 
Ernest strikes a blow for J ohnson — And makes a fool of 
himself— Memnon the Resolute — Ernest takes his punish- 
ment — Becomes Captain of the Shell Fifteen — The 
challenge from the Lower Sixth — The match — 
Davison distinguishes himself . . . .54 

CHAPTER YI. 

THE SONG OF THE HOOPOE. 

Ernest promoted to the school Fifteen — The new master 
— Preparation and co-operation — ‘Does the Hoopoe 
sing?’ — The head- master summoned— A caning — A 
digression — Fireworks for the fifth — The mysteries of 
squib making — Johnson’s plan for saving trouble and 
spending money — Ernest collects the subscriptions . 69 

CHAPTER YII. 

THE FIFTH OF NOVEMBER. 

Mr. Raikes and his little joke — The class becomes up- 
roarious — Johnson distributes the fireworks — The stub- 
born squib — The grand display — Ernest falls into John- 
son’s trap— Mr. Raikes meditates — The fiery visitor . 82 


Digitized by Google 



CONTENTS . 


IX 


CHAPTER VIII. 


THE WITHERING BLAST. 

The head-master sends for the senior prefect — The pre- 
fects in council —Armstrong visits Ernest — Johnson 
examined — He accuses Ernest — The prefects make a 
second attempt to get at the truth — Ernest before the 
head-master — The consequences of evil companionship — 
The bill for the fireworks— Maurice intervenes . 


PAGE 


96 


CHAPTER IX. 

MERCY VERSUS JUSTICE. 

The bill discussed — The Doctor’s dilemma — Maurice 
appeals for mercy — The Doctor addresses the boys — 
Suspense — A letter from Dr. O’Grady . . .112 


CHAPTER X. 

CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS. 

Ernest’s return — He tells the story of his troubles — His 
father receives the report — The Colonel remonstrates — 

The Black Watch at the Alma — A New Year’s toast — 

A visit to the sea ...... 122 


CHAPTER XI. 

ULYSSES OF MANY WILES. 

Ernest in anew light — He avoids Johnson — Johnson sighs 
for revenge —The new excitement — Locomotive building 
— The battle of the engines — More science — An explo- 
sion — The electric wire — The battery in Ernest’s desk — 

The stolen money ...... 137 


Digitized by Google 



X 


CONTENTS . 


CHAPTER XII. 

NIGHT AND MORNING. 

FACE 

Ernest in serious trouble once more— He resolves to run' 
away — His escape — He reaches Bristol — The docks — The 
captain — A new life — The broad Atlantic . .152 

CHAPTER XIII. 

THE SHADOW OF DEATH. 

The head -master’s letter — The Colonel ill — O’Grady’s advice 
— Mrs. Fairfield’s journey — Another blow — Dr. Saunder- 
son’s greeting — Maurice to the rescue — No news of 
Ernest — The Colonel dies . . . . .163 

CHAPTER XIV. 

SIN VICTUS. 

The first chapter resumed— Johnson awakened at last — 

He falls ill — Mr. St. Vincent— Dr. O’Grady sent for — 

A change of quarters — A wearisome illness — Johnson’s 
confession — The telegram — Ernest at his father’s grave 
— Retribution — Ernest’s promise . . .177 


Digitized by Google 



ERNEST FAIRFIELD 


CHAPTER I. 

SIN VINCENT. 

As the train speeds on its journey from London to 
Exeter, midway between Yeovil and Axminster it 
passes through the Blackmoor Yale district, a part 
of England dear to the memory of many a foxhunter, 
and famous in its records of the chase. And often 
perhaps on a summer afternoon, when the sun seems 
to focus all its heat upon some melting passenger in a 
first-class carriage, that passenger at this point of the 
journey, weary of his Times and Punchy may look out 
of the carriage window towards the south. His eye 
will rest upon a purple pine-clad hill sleeping in the 
soft airy distance. And then, if his languid energies 
are equal to the exertion, perhaps he will ask of some 
fellow-passenger, ‘ What’s that hill V 

It is Lewesdon Hill, the highest eminence in Dorset- 


Digitized by Google 



12 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


shire, fairer far than its more rugged sister Pilsden, 
which lies further away to the west. It forms a land- 
mark for vessels sailing up and down Channel ; it has 
been celebrated in verse by the poet Crowe, and 
beyond this I know not that it has much pretension 
to fame. But as the fondest memories of the principal 
characters in this story circle around that hill, it may 
well claim a passing notice. 

The view from the summit of Lewesdon Hill is at 
all times full of striking beauty. In every direction 
there lies outspread a panoramic expanse of undula- 
ting hills and vales richly wooded, corn-land where 
Ceres might find luxuriant delight, meadow-land 
where cattle can grow sleek, and sheep find abundant 
pasture. There are towns and villages and scattered 
homesteads, either clearly seen or suggested by the 
vaporous veil that crowns some hill intercepting them 
from sight, or by blue smoke rising above the trees. 
Beautiful at all times are those wooded regions, whether 
in the brilliant green of spring, or the full foliage of 
summer, or the golden glories of autumn, or the bleak 
desolation of winter. But most beautiful of all in the 
full blaze of a cloudless summer day, when beneath 
heaven’s blue dome the landscape is palpitating in a 
hazy mirage ; when every outline is softened by the 
amethystine radiance of the atmosphere, and Nature 
reposes in silent submission to the lord of light. Then 
on the top of Lewesdon Hill the supremacy of 
summer heat is not felt; for the south wind wafts 


Digitized by Google 



SIN VINCENT. 


*3 


thither its refreshing breeze, laden with gracious 
vigour from the broad blue sea. Yonder lies Brid- 
port, famed far and wide for its fishing-nets; there 
is Eype Church high on the hill, and Charmouth, 
and Lyme Regis behind the headland; Pilsden and 
Lambert’s Castle stand up like giant fortresses guard- 
ing the pleasant Yale of Marshwood ; Blackdown 
points towards the blue Devonian hills ; Greenham 
and Wayford and Drimpton lead the eye on to the 
village of Broadwindsor, with its noble church and 
Elizabethan vicarage, among the trees. And so on, 
round the great circle bounded by dim blue hills of 
faintest cobweb tint in the far, far horizon, where a 
streak of silver marks the other Channel with the 
Steep and Flat Holms; Glastonbury Tor, Alfred’s 
Tower; Wadden Hill, Beaminster, Stoke Abbas, Mel- 
plash, Egerdon Hill, and Admiral Hardy’s monument 
crowning the heights above Weymouth. Such are 
some of the many features of interest that meet the 
eye. 

In a certain hamlet, hidden behind one of those 
wooded hills, and known as Beechenhurst, stands an 
old hostelry — the Red Lion. Its whitewashed walls 
and oak-grained windows, and gaily-painted sign- 
board representing a blood-red monarch of the forest 
rampant, are intended to attract the passing villager 
with the prospect of rest and refreshment; and on a 
certain hot afternoon towards the end of August there 
was one old man, at any rate, who yielded to these 


Digitized by Google 



14 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


allurements. He sat on a rude bench by the door, 
with crossed hands resting on a stout hazel stick. A 
mug of home-brewed ale stood on the rustic table 
before him, from which he took an occasional draught. 
His face wore an expression of resignation, and 
seemed furrowed with lines of care ; and at intervals 
he took out a red handkerchief from his pocket and 
wiped his eyes after the manner of old men of the 
poorer class. I never heard his surname: he was 
called John, or ‘ Old John/ or more commonly ‘ Old 
Whats o’Clock/ in allusion to one of his principal 
duties; for he filled the important office of sexton, 
and was responsible for the behaviour of the church 
clock. The wording of his commission, duly drawn 
up and signed by the vicar and churchwardens of 
Beechenhurst more than twenty years ago, demanded 
that he should ‘ wind, regulate, clean, and repair the 
church clock, and be answerable for its keeping 
correct time/ These requirements might seem for- 
midable to other parish officers in a similar position, 
but they caused little or no anxiety to old John, for 
he had a natural gift for mechanical work, and earned 
many an honest shilling by cleaning and repairing the 
‘grandfather’s clocks ’ in the village. 

For several years this venerable old gaffer had been 
general servant to Colonel Fairfield, a retired Indian 
officer, who lived at Combe Grange. In that capacity 
his duties were varied; he looked after the garden, 
pumped water, cleaned boots and knives, and made 


Digitized by Google 



SIN VINCENT. 


15 


himself smart of an evening to wait at dinner. The 
household consisted of Colonel and Mrs. Fairfield and 
their son Ernest, when home for the holidays ; while 
the domestic staff included the cook, housemaid, old 
John, and a boy to look after the horse and carriage. 
But a few months ago Colonel Fairfield had died, and 
the establishment was broken up. The servants were 
discharged, the furniture sold, and a notice-board was 
erected by the front gate announcing that this desir- 
able residence and grounds of four acres were for sale. 

‘ Old What's o’Clock ’ was left in solitary charge of 
the Grange, and having plenty of time at his disposal, 
he often made a pilgrimage up the hill to the village. 
The neighbours generally were disposed to look 
kindly upon him, and pitied his loneliness, and the 
good-natured old women would sometimes ask him 
into their cottages to take a dish of tea. On such 
occasions they often tried to draw from him informa- 
tion about the break-up at the Grange, over which a 
certain veil of mystery hung. But old John did not 
give them much encouragement, being very reserved 
and reluctant to say anything on that subject. There- 
fore the gossips had to content themselves with inter- 
changing their own opinions, and it was generally 
supposed that the Colonel had been carried off by 
some sudden seizure, though what had become of his 
lady and the young gentleman nobody knew at all. 
* Old What’s o’clock’s ’ common remark was, * Ah, it 
was a sad, sad business ! Poor dear master ! and he 


Digitized by Google 



16 ERNEST FAIRFIELD, . 

such a promising young gentleman. Enough to break 
his mother’s heart, sure enough!’ And when they 
pressed him to tell them more, he would shake his 
head and say: ‘No, no! Giddy words can’t cure 
aching hearts — gossip never mended mischief.’ And 
so it came to pass, in consequence of his persistent 
refusal to talk upon the subject, that some of the 
neighbours would darkly hint that old John knew 
more than he cared to say — that ’twould have been a 
bad thing for him if there had been a crowner’s inquest ; 
leastways, the old chap had been half-crazy since the 
Colonel’s death. And so in some directions the cold 
shoulder was turned towards him. Old John did not 
trouble himself much about what they thought or 
said: he went his way, they might go theirs; he 
didn’t want to meddle with their affairs — they might 
let his alone. And so, as often as not, he would stroll 
up to the Red Lion when he knew the men had not 
yet left work, and have his pint of ale in peace, as he 
had done upon this August afternoon. 

Having finished his humble refreshment, the sexton 
set out on his homeward way. He hobbled slowly 
down the village street, and soon after passing the last 
of the whitewashed cottages he turned into a lane on 
the left. It was such a lane as one meets with only in 
the counties of Dorset, Devon, and Somerset — a deep 
cutting with hedges straggling in wild luxuriance up 
banks at least eighteen feet high. Foxgloves, honey- 
suckles, brambles, and hazels mingled with tall grasses 


Digitized by Google 



SIN VINCENT. 


1 7 


and ferns in the wildest profusion to form a tangled 
undergrowth of shaded green; while ash-trees rose 
above with their graceful branches and fairy feathery 
foliage. It was such a lane as an artist loves to study, 
though he despairs of imitating with colour and brush 
the inimitable traceries of Nature's handiwork. The 
cool shade of this lane was comforting to the soul of 
old John after the heat of the upward journey ; and 
he heaved a sigh of relief as he picked his way down 
the steep stony path to the point where it joined the 
high-road. There, on the right side, standing back 
from the road about eighty yards, was the old house 
known as Combe Grange. 

It was a long, low, old-fashioned country-house, 
built of Ham Hill stone, fretted all over with lichens, 
green, yellow, purple, and gray, which dressed the 
walls in harmonious tints of softest colouring. The 
front-door was in the middle, and on each side were 
three windows, narrow for their height. Above these 
were seven windows like them in every respect, and 
as many dormer windows in the roof. Behind all 
these twenty windows the white blinds were drawn 
down ; no smoke issued from any chimney ; the broad, 
straight carriage-drive was overgrown with weeds ; the 
turf on either side resembled rank mowing-grass ; the 
flower-beds were lost in a wilderness of rank desolation, 
a few of the more hardy annuals spreading their un- 
tutored growth among usurping weeds. 

Deep lay the shadows on the old Grange, for the 

2 


Digitized by Google 



i8 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


sun had sunk behind the hills. The woods that rose 
behind the house were still flushed with a rosy glow ; 
the western sky was resplendent with the glory of 
sunset crimson and gold ; but the old house lay 
wrapped in shade, the white window-blinds lending 
to it a ghastly death-like aspect, while sheeted wreaths 
of mist rose silently from the wooded hollows, putting 
forth spectral arms, oh, so slowly ! weird phantoms 
of night creeping in the gloom, and gathering the 
shroud around their shivering forms. Combe Grange 
is a lovely spot in the broad sunshine of summer 
noon, but it is a ghostly spot after sunset at all 
times. 

The sexton approached the rusty iron gates, and 
taking a key from his pocket, he stood fumbling at 
the padlock longer than was absolutely necessary, for 
his attention was attracted by a boy running along 
the road towards him. He looked about fifteen years 
of age, and as he came up panting he stopped opposite 
the gate and had a fit of coughing ; and then, staring 
at the old man from head to foot, he said : 

‘ Hullo, do you live in that house ?’ 

‘ I do, sir.* 

‘ Well, I say, it’s a queer-looking place ! They 
don't spend much time weeding the walks ; and all 
the blinds down. What a ghostly-looking hole! I 
shouldn’t think anyone would like to live there.’ 
‘Maybe not, and maybe some would like to be 
living there now as lived there before. Be you a-stop- 


Digitized by Google 



SIN VINCENT. 


19 


ping with Mr. St. Vincent, the gent as has taken 
Bracken Dene for the summer ? I see you with him 
at church last Sunday/ 

‘Ye s ; my name's Sin Vincent. They spell it 
“ Saint/* and they call it “ Sin.” I suppose they don’t 
think there’s much difference between a saint and a 
sinner. “ Vincent ” means “ conquering,” and “ Sin 
Conquering” is a queer name for a chap to inherit 
from his ancestors. He’s my uncle. I’m spending 
the holidays with him. It’s awfully slow; the old 
buffer is as surly as a bear with a sore head, and 
there’s not a soul to talk to. It’s enough to give one 
the blues.’ 

The sexton had unlocked the gate and opened it, 
and was inside. His new acquaintance, glad to get 
the chance of talking to anyone, asked if he might 
come in and just take a look round. 

‘ Aye, if you please, sir. It’s a bit untidy-like ; 
nothing’s been done to it since the board was put up 
after the auction.’ 

Passing up the drive, and round to the back of the 
house, as the front-door was locked and bolted, they 
came into a small paved yard, surrounded by dilapi- 
dated out-buildings; and old John, taking out an- 
other key, unlocked the back-door. 

The boy could not repress a shudder as he entered 
the house. It felt so chill and dreary. The sexton 
took him into some of the deserted rooms. * That’s 
the kitchen, where I sleep ; that’s the study ; that’s 

2—2 


Digitized by Google 



20 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


the dining-room ; that’s the billiard-room/ Then they 
went upstairs and looked at some of the bedrooms. 
A damp and deadly atmosphere seemed to brood over 
the vacant chambers. 

‘ I say, I wonder you aren’t in a funk living in this 
horrible old place all alone. Isn’t it haunted ?’ 

‘Aye, maybe; but there isn’t nothing about the 
place that I need be afeared of ; none that ever lived 
here would wish to harm me.’ 

They had come downstairs again, and the old man 
opened the door of a room which he seemed purposely 
to have left to the last. It was on the right of the 
entrance-hall. His companion looked in. The room 
differed in one respect from all the others, in that it 
was not entirely destitute of furniture. There stood 
in the middle of that room a violoncello-case of 
antiquated construction. It was studded with iron 
nails, and fitted with iron handles and clasps. What 
a strange occupant for a desolate house ! Grim, 
weird, silent — its sphinx-like, orbless head thrown 
back, gazing blindly upon nothing ! Like the statue 
of Memnon at Thebes, it seemed a dumb witness of 
the past. 

The boy stood staring with a sort of creepy horror 
upon the ugly thing. Old John laid one hand upon 
his arm, and with the other pointed to the violoncello- 
case, and in low, measured tones he said : 

‘That’s the haunted room. That’s the very spot 
where my dear master used to sit of an evening and 


Digitized by Google 



SIN VINCENT . 


21 


play his fiddlingchello. He loved his music, that he 
did; but it was sold with the rest of the furniture, 
and the gentleman what bought it wouldn’t have the 
case. He said it was too ugly, and he had another 
made. So there it has stood ever since. But if ever 
wood had life in it, it’s that old case. . . . Afraid ? 
No, I bain’t afraid. I come here of an evening when 
the sun gets low, and the light falls on it, or may be 
when it’s night and the moon shines in. I bring in 
my chair and sit and listen ; and then the soft, sad 
music floats round the room, just as it used to, and it 
makes my flesh creep ; but still I like to hear it, so 
low, and solemn, and awful. Oh, my poor dear 
master !’ 

The old man was quite overcome. He leant against 
the wall and covered his face with his hands, and 
rocked himself to and fro, and sobbed and moaned in 
a piteous manner. Then, suddenly pausing, he raised 
his wizen right hand with uplifted finger, and listened 
with a far-away look in his tearful eyes. His ragged 
hair hung loose over his neck, and he seemed to hear 
the soft iEolian melancholy music. 

‘ Hush ! don’t you hear it ?’ he said. 

The boy was spell-bound with terrible fascination. 

‘No, I don’t hear anything. Let me go. I can’t 
stand this ; it’s too awful.’ 

And he took hold of the sexton’s coat and pulled 

him awav. 

«/ 

‘ There’s no cause to be afeared, young gentleman. 


Digitized by Google 



22 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


You’ll soon get over it. I’ll walk back with you to 
Bracken Dene, if you like.’ 

‘ Thank you. Come along, then.’ 

They walked most of the way in silence ; but when 
the boy had partly recovered from his fright, he asked 
what had happened in the deserted house. Old John 
was rather more communicative to him than he was to 
the village gossips. 

As they walked up the drive at Bracken Dene, ‘ Sin 
Vincent ’ asked the name of the gentleman who had 
died. 

‘ His name was Colonel Fairfield, and his son Master 

Ernest ’ 

‘ What ?’ 


Digitized by Google 



CHAPTER II. 


MAURICE AT COMBE GRANGE. 

Just one year before the date of the preceding chapter — 
the same month, August, possibly the same day — ‘Old 
What’s o’Clock’ was busy tidying up the drive, trim- 
ming the roses, and pulling up occasional weeds from 
the radiant flower-beds. Ernest Fairfield, in flannel 
trousers and shirt, was vigorously driving the mowing- 
machine, over the pulling of which the red-faced boy, 
Tom, puffed and blew like an apoplectic seal. 

‘ Go it, Tom ! it will take down some of your fat. We 
must get it all done in an hour, and you must have the 
carriage ready by half-past one sharp. 

They went at it with a will, and as each fresh line 
was mown, Ernest turned to look with satisfaction at 
the result. He was a boy of striking appearance, six- 
teen years old, with curly brown hair and clear olive 
complexion that spoke of robust health. His sun- 
burnt arms showed that the shirt-sleeves were often 
turned up, and his broad shoulders and deep chest 
gave promise of his becoming a strong man. They 
laboured steadily, and in less than an hour the work 
was accomplished. 


Digitized by Google 



24 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


4 I say, John, it does look jolly ! There’s nothing to 
beat good turf just mown; how stunning the shadows 
look upon it !’ 

4 Aye, sir, there’s not such lawns at any of the houses 
about ; it’s a pleasure to make them look their best.’ 

4 Eight you are, John ; and mind you have the tennis- 
ground marked out before we return.’ 

Ernest took up his coat and ran, with a hop, skip, 
and a jump, into the house. A tremendous splashing 
of water was soon heard in his room, and a few minutes 
afterwards he reappeared dressed in less fantastic 
apparel, and bounding down the staircase three steps 
at a time, with the agility of an athlete, he was in the 
dining-room before the gong had finished its reverbera- 
tions. Mrs. Fairfield and the Colonel were already 
seated at the table. The former was a lady of most 
gracious manners and beautiful face; the latter was a 
noble old veteran of martial aspect, with white hair 
close-cropped, and a white moustache, seventy-five years 
of age, tall and upright still, and he greeted Ernest with 
a proud and kindly welcome. 

4 Well, my dear boy, you’ve done a good morning’s 
work. Want your comrade to see the place at its best, 
eh? That’s right, always plenty of pipe-clay before 
inspection.’ 

The smile on Mrs. Fairfield’s face beamed with its 
brightest light as her eyes rested on the happy coun- 
tenance of her son. Ernest was in high spirits at the 
prospect of welcoming a friend of his early school-days 


Digitized by Google 



MAURICE AT COMBE GRANGE . 


25 


on a visit to Combe Grange. It was Maurice Elton, 
an orphan, who generally spent his holidays with an 
uncle and aunt in Hampshire. He and Ernest had 
been three years together at Highfield House. Maurice 
had left that school two years ago, and was now at St. 
Andrew’s College, Washborough. Ernest had left 
Highfield House a term later, and had since been at 
home, reading two hours a day with the curate, and 
being supposed to work three hours more by himself. 
His progress in work had not been satisfactory, since he 
had no natural taste for the classics, nor yet did Euclid 
and the kindred subjects find better favour in his eyes. 
Ernest heartily disliked lessons of all sorts, and though 
anxious to please his parents, he failed to throw his 
heart into his work, and so he found the road to 
learning a rough and weary path. His reports from 
Dr. Porchester were always excellent in every respect, 
with the one important exception that he could not be 
brought to throw energy into the work. Colonel 
Fairfield did his utmost to impress upon his son 
the necessity of more serious application. Ernest 
thoroughly believed in his own heart that he was 
doing his best, and he was just one among the un- 
numbered examples of boys of whom it is hard to say 
whether they fail through their infirmity or their 
fault. But certain it was that Ernest did fail, and this 
was a constant source of sorrow and disappointment to 
his parents. 

It was Mrs. Fairfield who proposed to ask Maurice 


Digitized by Google 



26 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


Elton to spend the last fortnight of the holidays at 
Combe Grange. She was anxious to interest him 
afresh in her boy’s welfare. Ernest had often spoken 
with affection and admiration of Maurice. There 
never was such a hard-working, conscientious, straight- 
forward fellow in the world. Maurice was the chap to 
get on ; he just did stick to his work. But then, to be 
sure, he liked it, and that made all the difference. 
Such remarks made Mrs. Fairfield feel sure that 
Maurice’s influence might be of the highest value to 
Ernest on his introduction to the new school. And when 
she proposed that Maurice should be asked to Combe 
Grange, Ernest was delighted, and so he was to drive 
over to Bridport that afternoon to meet his friend. 

The carriage rattled round from the yard punctual 
to the minute, and was soon bowling along the Brid- 
port road. It took about an hour to drive to the 
station, and the train was due five minutes after Ernest’s 
arrival. So there was not long to wait, and Ernest got 
a boy to hold the horse while he went upon the plat- 
form to welcome his friend. 

The meeting was hilarious. Maurice jumped out of 
the carriage, and the hand-shaking expressed the 
warmest pleasure on both sides. 

‘ I’m awfully glad to see you, Ernest. It was good 
of you to ask me down. I’ve got a hat-box and rug ; 
mind the fiddle! Thanks, don’t bother. There’s a 
portmanteau in the van. Oh, they’ve bundled it out ! 
Well, how are you ?’ 


Digitized by Google 



MA URICE A T COMBE GRANGE. 27 

‘ Oh, I'm all right, old chap, and I am glad you’ve 
come ! It will be jolly. I hope we shall be able to 
amuse you, but I’m afraid you will find it slow. Never 
mind, you’ve got the old fiddle, I’m glad to see ; and 
there’s a billiard-table for wet days. The governor 
will be pleased to see the fiddle.* 

They talked on as boys do, and shipped the luggage 
on board the carriage, and then the horse put on his 
best homeward pace, and so they went on their way 
rejoicing. Down the steep Fore Street of Bridport, 
through the outskirts of the town, out upon the wide 
white road with its ups and downs, mile after mile, 
joking and laughing and talking over old times, the 
two friends enjoyed the drive. Maurice had never 
been in that part of the world before, and Ernest kept 
him alive to admire the varying outline of hills on the 
left, with the purple height of Lewesdon, and said he 
was sure there was nothing to equal it in Hampshire ; 
and so on, until they had nearly accomplished the 
journey. 

‘ There’s the house, Maurice ; you can just see the 
chimneys above the trees.’ 

‘ Oh, how jolly and snug it looks ! But I’m getting 
in a great fright. I’ve never paid a visit in my life, 
Ernest. I don’t know in the least how to behave.’ 

‘ Fright, my dear fellow ? If you don’t feel at home 
after the first five minutes, you may go off again with- 
out bothering to unpack your traps.’ 

‘Oh, but your father, the Colonel! How shall I 


Digitized by Google 



28 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


ever be able to talk to such a venerable scion of Mars, 
who has served his country for fifty years ?’ 

‘ Bosh, my boy ! He’s the j oiliest old gentleman in 
the British Isles. Just get him on the subject of 
fiddles, and he’ll love you as his own son/ 

The gates of the Grange were open, and the horse 
went up the drive as if he longed for the consolations 
of hay and straw in his comfortable stall. But Maurice 
had time to admire the beautiful lawns on either side, 
and Ernest was pleased to see the bright white lines of 
the tennis-court newly-marked, inviting them to play. 

‘ Oh, won’t we have lots of tennis — rather !* 

The Colonel had not returned from his walk, but 
Mrs. Fairfield was at the door, ready to welcome her 
visitor. Her eyes always seemed to melt with kind- 
ness, and her voice sounded like sweetly-running 
waters, and her smile gladdened every face on which 
it beamed. Ernest’s words were more than verified ; 
it was not a matter of five minutes ; the first words of 
Mrs. Fairfield’s greeting were enough to make Maurice 
feel at home. 

* How do you do, Maurice V she said. * I am glad 
to make your acquaintance at last. Ernest has talked 
so often about you, that you are already a familiar 
friend to us and no stranger.’ 

A smile of true sympathy from a lady is generally 
enough to win a boy’s confidence i and as Maurice 
took Mrs. Fairfield’s hand, he felt sure that everything 
must be delightful in a house with such a lady for its 
mistress. 


Digitized by Google 



MAURICE AT COMBE GRANGE . 


29 


Mrs. Fairfield led the way into the drawing-room, 
where tea was invitingly laid out. It was a pretty 
room, with three tall windows opening upon the lawn. 
Jessamine, Banksia roses, honeysuckle, and clematis 
clambered in graceful festoons over wooden trellis- 
work between the windows, and mingled their varied 
scents with the fragrance of roses arranged in bouquets 
about the room. The soft west wind wandered in, 
and whispered of cool, refreshing shades in tangled 
bower and brake, where it loves to hide on hot after- 
noons. 

As I sit writing here in the region of Bagshot Sands, 
with their resinous, honeyed wildernesses of pine and 
heather, and scarcity of true English turf, my soul 
sighs at times for the green meadows of Dorset, Devon, 
and Somerset, where truly Nature revels in turf — rich, 
sound, green turf, on which a cricket-ball bowled 
swiftly does not kick up a small sod, removing the 
grass, roots and all. But then the muddy roads in 
those loamy districts — ah! the sand has its advan- 
tages, after all ! 

Mrs. Fairfield watched the two boys as they drank 
their tea and munched their muffins and talked their 
happy talk. The contrast between them was striking, 
both in character and appearance. Ernest, always 
basking in the light of a happy home and the warmth 
of a mother’s love, with never a cloud to darken the 
sunshine, secure in the prospect of a comfortable in- 
heritance from his father, bright and thoughtless and 


Digitized by Google 



3o 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


easily influenced, regarded life as the foam on the 
surface of champagne— a dance of myriad sparkles 
and a draught of intoxicating delight. Maurice, on 
the other hand, possessed those sterling qualities 
which in life's race are generally sure to tell. He had 
not brilliant abilities, but he was gifted with dogged 
perseverance. He had been early left an orphan, with 
no brother or sister, and his enforced isolation had 
engendered in him a sense of self-reliance, and an 
absorbing ambition to make his way in the world by 
dint of energy and industry. Warren Hastings was 
his favourite model. In work and play he strove to 
throw his soul into everything he did; and, by patiently 
‘sticking to it,' he managed, without any specially 
brilliant qualifications, to gain solid proficiency among 
his companions in a short time. This course, con- 
tinued during his early school-days, landed him at the 
top of the tree all round, and won for him. general 
esteem. Ernest was only one among many who enter- 
tained strong admiration for the orphan boy. His 
masters formed high hopes of his future success. Dr. 
Porchester used to say in his reports : ‘ Commands the 
highest respect in work and play; thoroughly in 
earnest and full of grand promise.' In spite of such 
brilliant achievements, Maurice was humble-minded 
and free from any conceit. He used to excuse himself 
for plodding at his work by acknowledging that he 
was such a duffer, that unless he did so he should 
never be free from impositions. Both boys were 


Digitized by 


Google 



; MAURICE AT COMBE GRANGE . 31 

warm-hearted and cheerful in disposition, and the 
contrast in their characters only served to knit them 
more closely together. 

Mrs. Fairfield felt convinced, as she glanced from one 
to the other while they talked over old Highfield days, 
that Maurice was just the friend to help Ernest in 
strengthening those traits of character in which he was 
naturally weak. Her earnest prayers were that her son 
might grow up a noble Christian gentleman, and it was 
a constant source of sorrow to her to feel that with all 
his good qualities he was still wanting the reality of 
determination and serious thought. 

‘ And now, dear,’ said Mrs. Fairfield, when the light 
refreshment was over, ‘ I dare say Maurice would like 
to see his room/ 

* Oh yes, mother ! Come along, old chap ; you must 
unpack your traps.’ 

Ernest showed the way, and was soon busily engaged 
in helping Maurice transfer the contents of his port- 
manteau to the various drawers intended for their 
reception. During the operation Ernest was horrified 
at finding certain volumes stowed away among the 
shirts and socks which did not suit his ideas of the 
fitness of things. 

‘ Why, here’s actually a Liddell and Scott, and selec- 
tions from Homer ! You don’t mean to say you travel 
about with these horrid books, Daddy ? I did think 
you would have left them behind.’ 

‘ Oh, they don't take up much room ; and besides, I 


Digitized by Google 



32 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


am such a muff at Greek, you know. We are to do 
Homer next term, and I am trying to make a bit of a 
start in it. And, really, it’s splendid stuff, some of it. 
Look here, I’m sure you’ll like this. He’s talking 
about Achilles and his myrmidons : he compares them 
to ravenous wolves, etc. I made it out yesterday — 
just listen.’ 

Holding the book in his left hand, with a rhetorical 
flourish of the right, Maurice began to spout in sound- 
ing rhythmic tones : “ And they like ravenous wolves 
— unutterable might around their hearts — which, 
having mastered a great antlered stag, devour him 
upon the mountains — their chaps murderous with 
blood. Now in a pack they go to lap with their 
tongues black water ’ ” — (“ What’s that ?” asked Ernest. 
“ Ink ?”) — ‘ “ dark water from a dark-watered fountain, 
spitting out the murder of blood.” ’ 

‘ Oh, sky that bosh ! It’s not bad though, when you 
know the meaning of the words — but the grind of 
looking them out ! Why can’t they let us use cribs ?’ 

‘ Well, never mind — they won’t, and there’s an end 
of it. But this next piece is really grand, as good as a 
fairy-tale. Just listen to this description of Scylla : 
“ In the midst of a rock is a shadowy cave, turned 
towards darkness and Erebus. In it dwells Scylla, 
shrieking terribly — her voice like that of a new-born 
puppy ” ’ — (“ Not very terrible, I should say !”) — * “ but 
she is an evil monster. Twelve feet she has, all hideous, 
and six long necks, and on each of them an awful head 


Digitized by Google 



MAURICE AT COMBE GRANGE . 


33 


— three rows of teeth, numerous and close, full of black 
death. In the midst of the hollow cave she lurks, and 
thrusts forth her heads from the dreadful chasm. And 
then, peering round the rock, she fishes for dolphins 
and dogs, and any larger monster, ten thousands of 
which the deep-roaring Amphitrite feeds.” ’ 

‘ Daddy, I wish you could be my master — I really 
believe I should get on. You should look out all the 
words and make out the sense, and drive it into my 
thick head. But now a truce to all this sky-larking : 
let’s go and have a game of billiards. Father has come 
in by this time, and he will play us two : he said he 
should like to have a game before dinner. I must 
introduce you to him/ 

‘ I can’t play, Ernest. I never had a cue in my 
hand ; but I’d like to look on while you play/ 

‘ Oh, I’m glad there’s something you can’t do. I’m 
no use at it, but I can just manage to hit the balls. 
You’ll soon get into the way of it.’ 

They went downstairs, and the click of the ivory 
balls sounded in the direction of the billiard-room. 

The Colonel was amusing himself with practising 
canons, and he greeted Maurice warmly. 

‘ Ah, I’m very glad to see you, Maurice ; welcome 
to Combe Grange. I hear you play the violin — no 
instrument like it — we must have a trio after 
dinner/ 

Maurice acknowledged the Colonel’s greeting with 
becoming modesty, and had his first lesson in billiards, 

3 


Digitized by Google 



34 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


and after dinner Maurice’s violin was produced for the 
Colonel’s inspection. 

* Ah, a beautiful instrument — genuine Amati back 
— no doubt of it, a very valuable violin, Maurice. 
Where did you pick it up ?’ 

‘ It belonged to my father, sir. I always heard it 
was a good one, but never knew it was a genuine 
original.’ 

‘No doubt about the back — not quite sure about 
the rest. The neck looks rather modern. But I 
want to hear it speak. Have you learnt long V 

‘ I began when I was eight, sir, and have had lessons 
regularly. I am very fond of it, and practise every 
day.’ 

‘ That’s the way. We’ve got lots of music. Mary, 
love, show Maurice some of our selections — he's sure 
to find something to suit his fancy/ 

Mrs. Fairfield took out the music, and Maurice 
pounced upon Rode’s ‘Air with Variations.’ 

‘ Oh, if you would kindly play the accompaniment 
of this, Mrs. Fairfield, I should like to try it/ 

The performance was a brilliant success. Maurice 
played with considerable taste and execution, and 
brought out a powerful tone. He had gone at his 
fiddle as he went at everything else, with all his 
heart ; and when the heart is given to that peerless 
instrument, if there is a spark of true genius to assist 
it, the result is grand. 

The Colonel’s enthusiasm knew no bounds. He 


Digitized by Google 



MAURICE AT COMBE GRANGE. 


35 


could hardly sit still during the performance. His 
eye kindled, and he waved time with his finger, and 
as the last note died away he jumped up from his 
chair and patted Maurice on the back, and seizing his 
hand, shook it vigorously, and said : 

‘ God bless you, my boy ! Capital ! splendid ! I 
haven’t had such a treat for years !’ 

Mrs. Fairfield said : 

‘ You really do play beautifully, Maurice.’ 

And Ernest chimed in : 

‘ Well done, Daddy, old chap ! I knew you’d bring 
down the house! I couldn’t have done it better 
myself !’ 

Then followed a trio, in which Maurice acquitted 
himself with equal credit, and so his first evening at 
the Grange closed. 


3—2 


Digitized by Google 



CHAPTER III. 


THE SEAL OF THE COVENANT. 

Maurice had now been at Combe Grange a week, 
and found his visit more enjoyable than he had 
imagined possible. His uncle and aunt in Hampshire 
were always very kind to him, and he felt much 
gratitude and affection towards them, but never had 
he really known what most boys mean by ‘home/ 
Now he was suddenly plunged into the midst of a 
home in which the spell of mutual affection rendered 
all things bright and perfect. The Colonel was so 
genial and cheerful that his presence never shed a 
breath of chill influence upon the home circle. And 
Mrs. Fairfield appeared to Maurice the most lovable 
person he had ever known. Her heart, always 
abounding in kindness, overflowed with sympathy for 
the orphan boy. At first she was inclined to treat 
him with affectionate regard for Ernest's sake, because 
they were such good friends. But very soon her 
affection warmed towards him for his own sake. She 
found him so unselfish, generous, and open-hearted, 
and he responded so keenly to every overture of 
kindness. Maurice’s soul unfolded in the sunshine of 


Digitized by Google 



THE SEAL OF THE COVENANT. 


37 


her smile, and seemed to enjoy a new existence. It 
was as if a blank space had been suddenly filled in 
the volume of his life — as though water had been 
given to one suffering from unappeased thirst. He 
felt as if he could almost worship the ground on 
which Mrs. Fairfield trod. 

One afternoon, when walking with Ernest over the 
hills towards the sea, Maurice said : 

‘ Ernest, you ought to be the happiest fellow in the 
world.* 

‘ Well, Maurice, I suppose I am as happy as most 
chaps ; but why do you think so V 

‘ I think your mother is the most beautiful and 
lovable lady on the face of the earth, and it ought 
to make you the happiest fellow alive to be her 
son/ 

‘ Well, Daddy, I believe you’re right about mother, 
and I love her with all my heart, and it does make me 
happy. I am so glad you like her/ 

‘ Like her ! that’s not half strong enough, Ernest. I 
never knew what a mother’s love was, but she is so 
kind and loving towards me, that my friendship for 
her would have gladdened the heart of old Lselius. 
I don’t want to talk shop, but I never understood till 
now what he says about friendship springing up 
from mutual feelings of love. I am so thankful I 
came here, Ernest. I haven’t half done yet. If I had 
a mother living like yours, it would be the one object 
of my life to please her, and make her the utmost 


Digitized by Google 



38 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


possible return for all her goodness. I don’t want to 
preach or set myself up as better than you, or even 
imply that you don’t try to please her ; I only just say 
what I should try and do, and I should hope you are 
determined to do no less, for I don’t suppose there are 
many fellows in the world who have such a mother. 
There, that’s the longest speech I ever made !’ 

That night Mrs. Fairfield went as usual into Ernest s 
room after he was in bed, to give him her last blessing, 
and afterwards she also went to see Maurice. Standing 
by his bedside, she said : 

* My dear boy, Ernest has told me what you talked 
about this afternoon. I was so delighted to hear it. 
You must always look upon me as your mother. I 
shall always think of you as my son. You must write 
to me from school whenever you like, and be sure that 
I shall sympathize in everything you tell me. God 
bless and keep you, my dear boy.’ 

‘Oh, Mrs. Fairfield, how can I thank you for all 
your goodness ? I cannot say what I feel, but I shall 
always love you with all my heart, and you have made 
me so happy ;’ and Maurice took the hand that had 
been laid upon his head and kissed it reverently, while 
tears not one nor two dimmed the lustre of the gems 
that sparkled on its fingers. 

The last remaining days passed pleasantly and only 
too quickly. There were two cricket-matches, Beechen- 
hurst v. Beam inster, in which Ernest played a fine innings 
of fifty-six, while Maurice made twenty- eight, and 


Digitized by Google 



THE SEAL OF THE COVENANT 39 

dealt havoc among the foe with his slow twisters. In 
the other match against Bridport, Beechenhurst was 
hopelessly discomfited by a left-hand bowler, who sent 
the stumps flying all over the field, and neither 
Maurice nor Ernest scored one run between them. 

Then the Curate came in often, and Patrick O’Grady, 
the comical, good-humoured little Irish doctor who 
had settled in the village some years ago, and, being of 
independent means, found the small practice afforded 
by the neighbourhood sufficient to keep him employed. 
And as he liked the country, he cared not to go further 
with a chance of faring worse. This pair came in often, 
and made up a capital game of tennis. The Colonel 
and his wife would sit under the shade of the trees, 
she with her work, he with the Times and a cigar, 
and it gave them keen pleasure to see how thoroughly 
the boys enjoyed their exercise. 

Then of an evening after dinner they played billiards 
and played music. All the trios the Colonel could lay 
hands upon were brought out, until Ernest, who was 
not very musical in his tastes, declared that he should 
like to build a funeral pyre with the music on the top 
of the piano, and offer the ’cello and violin as a burnt 
sacrifice to the Classic Nine. 

Mrs. Fairfield found many an opportunity of talking 
to Maurice. She discussed with him every subject in 
which he took interest — his work, his fiddle, his home- 
life, his friends and his future prospects. But especi- 
ally on the last afternoon did she confide to him the 


Digitized by Google 



40 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


charge of Ernest on beginning a new life at school. 
Ernest was so thoughtless and easily influenced, so un- 
concerned for the serious reality of life, that Mrs. 
Fairfield felt much anxiety about the prospect. At 
Highfield House he had gone through his career in a 
pleasant and easy manner, never attaining more than 
average success in anything, and Dr. Porchester 
admitted that there was a sense of disappointment 
about him. 

‘Oh, Maurice, I do so hope and pray that as he 
grows older he will acquire more firmness of character, 
and not always be so like a butterfly. So much 
depends upon the way he now begins — upon the 
friends he makes. He has so little steadfastness of 
purpose ; he has a good heart, and is thoroughly affec- 
tionate towards his father and myself ; and if only he 
can have strength to avoid the evil and choose the 
good, I feel sure that he will do well. Of course there 
are some boys of low principle in every large school ; 
but I hope and believe that the tone of St. Andrew's is 
healthy, and that a boy has every chance there of 
growing up a God-fearing man.' 

‘ There are several very nice fellows there, Mrs. 
Fairfield, and there are some very nasty ones; but I 
suppose it's the same everywhere. The prefects are 
very strict in looking after us, and will not allow the 
rules to be broken ; but of course cads will find oppor- 
tunity to escape them, and Ernest will have to push his 
way like every other new fellow. You may be sure I 


Digitized by 


Google 



THE SEAL OF THE COVENANT. 


41 


will do my best to put him up to things, but I'm 
afraid it won't be much. He was awfully popular at 
Highfield House, and he's sure to be the same at St. 
Andrew's.' 

* Ah, Maurice, you know how earnestly my heart is 
set upon his doing well. I have possibly not said as 
much as I ought to him, but I have been fearful of 
saying too much. I know boys object to what they 
call “jaw.” But I feel so thankful that you are a 
friend to Ernest, and I confide him to your kind 
interest, my dear boy.' 

Maurice threw all his soul into his answer, that he 
would do all he could to deserve her confidence. 

That afternoon the two boys had one last walk up 
Lewesdon Hill. Ernest was more thoughtful and less 
talkative than usual. He walked along with a serious 
expression, and answered abruptly when Maurice spoke 
The latter understood his feelings, and did not press 
the conversation. It was Ernest who eventually broke 
the silence. 

‘ I don't know how it is, but somehow I feel rather 
glum about to-morrow, Daddy. It’s horrid having to 
leave home, and it's always a nuisance beginning again. 
But Pm awfully glad you’re coming.' 

‘ Cheer up, old chap ; you’ll like it well enough when 
you have shaken down. Of course you feel down in 
the mouth at leaving your mother. Who wouldn’t ? 
I do, I know — though I never minded leaving anyone 
before. I shall never cease being thankful that you 


Digitized by Google 



42 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


asked me down here, Ernest. Your mother’s kindness 
to me will never be forgotten as long as I live.’ 

‘ Oh, it isn’t altogether that — but I have a sort of 
nasty feeling about it all. I know I’m a flighty 
harum-scarum weather- cock sort of chap — mother 
always says so — and if I get into scrapes it will be so 
horrid for her. I do hope I shall go on all right. You 
know the dodge, Daddy ; I wish you would tell me.’ 

‘ Well, 111 tell you what a parson said who came to 
preach to us one Sunday last term. He just could 
preach. He said, “ Boys, if you want to keep straight, 
fear God, say your prayers, and think of your mothers ; 
a threefold cord is not quickly broken.” I could not 
exactly follow the last part at the time, but I can now. 
I cannot remember my own mother, but henceforth 
yours shall take her place, and I shall try and think 
of her always.’ 

‘ So will I, Daddy, and I shall think of you when 
you’re not by. How much longer are you going to be 
at St. Andrew’s ?’ 

* About two years, I believe. It’s a long time, and 
then I hope to go to Oxford. Armstrong is going 
there in a year, and one or two others. He’s the senior 
prefect. Everyone expects he’ll get a scholarship. I 
hope you’ll like him, Ernest. Of course, being a new 
fellow, you will not have much to do with him at first. 
But I shall get him to take an interest in you. And 
he’s such a splendid man, such grand shoulders, and as 
brave as a lion. Some fellows say he has an awful 


Digitized by Google 



THE SEAL OF THE COVENANT. 43 

temper, but he never gets excited unless there’s a 
cause ; and then woe betide the fellow that excites 
him. Old Twopenny — he’s the second master — said 
that Armstrong would do for a model of Apollo. You 
should just see him hit at cricket !’ 

The boys had now reached the top of Lewesdon Hill. 
Pilsden loomed to the right, under a frowning canopy 
of cloud, through which the slanting rays of a stormy 
sunset burst with broad shafts of yellow light. Ernest 
said, ‘ We often get these jolly wild sunsets. I know 
the look of old Pilsden by heart, with his black face 
frowning under the purple clouds, and the western line 
of pale blue hills lying somewhere down by Devon and 
Porlock, and those lovely heathery combes. It makes 
me feel quite poetical ! I always used to think of this 
view at Highfield House.’ 

They walked under the pines, and Ernest stopped by 
a certain tree. 

‘ I once had an elder brother Frank, and we often 
walked up here, and one day when I was a very small 
chap I asked him to climb up this tree and see if there 
was anything in a nest at the top. I had seen a 
squirrel humbugging about up there. Well, he climbed 
up, and I was in an awful funk that he would fall, and 
while he was up the tree I cut the letters F. F. in the 
bark. I have often trimmed them and deepened them 
since — there they are. Then the day before Frank 
sailed for the Cape, we made a covenant under this 
tree that we would always be loyal to each other, and 


Digitized by Google 



44 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


if ever one was in trouble tbe other should do his best 
to back him up and get him out of the mess. Frank 
died of fever before he had been out there a year ; and 
I want you to take his place, Maurice. Will you 
promise always to stick to me ? I feel so strong when 
you are by. Shall we promise always to be the best 
friends ?’ 

‘ Yes, Ernest, we will. Your mother has promised to 
be a mother to me, and so we are brothers. Here 
under this sacred tree we shake hands and vow eternal 
friendship !’ 

Then, as they stood there, Maurice took out his knife 
and hacked off a small block of the solid bark, and as 
they walked back he fashioned it into an oval, and 
moothed one side, and carved upon it with the points 
of his knife a pine and hill. 

‘ There, Ernest, that’s the seal of our covenant !’ 

‘ I will always keep it, Maurice.’ 


Digitized by Google 




“ ‘ There, Ernest, that’s the seal of our covenant ! ’ ’ 

See page 44. 



Digitized by 



CHAPTER IY. 


ST. ANDREW’S. 

St. Andrew’s College, Washborough, was described 
in the county papers as a school for the sons of gentle- 
men, wherein a liberal education was offered to boys 
preparing for the Universities, Civil Service, naval, 
military, and mercantile professions. Though pro- 
fessing to include within its educational embrace the 
sons of gentlemen only, at the time of which I write 
its condition was not so exuberantly prosperous as to 
allow of very delicate discrimination; and upon its 
roll were certainly numbered some boys whose mother- 
tongue savoured of a dialect not usually adopted by 
the refined orders of society — boys whose parents 
described St. Andrew’s to their friends as ‘ a ’andsome 
’ouse, thorough genteel-like, you know.’ 

But in two respects the college flattered itself upon 
occupying a level considerably above similar establish- 
ments in the neighbourhood. It would have nothing 
to do with day-boys, and it possessed a head-master 
renowned for sound learning and able administration. 
Those competent to form a just estimation of Dr. 
Saunderson said that he was too good for the place, 
that he ought to be at one of the public schools, where 


Digitized by Google 



45 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


his light would shine under more favourable circum- 
stances. But whether from necessity or preference, he 
remained where he was until age compelled him to 
retire from scholastic labours ; and though his talents 
may have been buried in uncongenial soil, yet he did 
a great work in a firm, quiet, and unobtrusive way. 

Ernest's first impressions of the town of Wash- 
borough were formed upon the top of an omnibus as 
he and Maurice drove up from the station. It was a 
hot afternoon in September, and the sleepy old town 
lay sweltering in the blaze of unclouded sunshine. 
The people in the streets walked slowly, and kept to 
the shady sides. The horses seemed to feel unusual 
distress as they toiled up the long hill upon which the 
town is built. The bells of the Minster Church were 
chiming for the afternoon service, and a few old ladies 
dressed in black were wending their way to seek 
refreshing comfort for body and soul within the holy 
precincts of its dim religious walls. 

In due time the boys were set down at the college 
gates, and Maurice, having introduced Ernest at head- 
quarters, took him all over the place. Ernest was 
struck by the size of the buildings, the principal 
fa$ade being of imposing proportions, with a noble 
central tower and massive square towers flanking the 
long line of building on either side. There was a 
broad gravel playground in front of the college, then 
terraces and steps leading down to the cricket-field, 
which commanded a magnificent view of the town 
and valley and hills beyond. 


Digitized by Google 



ST. ANDREW'S. 


47 


The first weeks of term may be passed over, during 
which time Ernest was settling down into his place. 
He had been put in the ‘ Shell/ that general receptacle 
for average boys of the average age. There were 
three forms below it — Upper and Lower Fourth and 
Third. There were nineteen boys in the Shell ; twenty- 
five in the Fourths, and seven in the Third. In the 
Lower Fifth were fifteen boys; in the Middle and Upper 
Fifth sixteen and seventeen respectively ; above which 
were the Lower and Upper Sixth, making up a roll of 
125 boys. Maurice had found himself promoted, and 
was now a prefect. 

So far things had gone smoothly with Ernest. He 
had been put thoroughly in the way of all school 
traditions and requirements by Maurice, who was 
conscientiously fulfilling his promises to' Mrs. Fair- 
field. With the masters Ernest was not in very high 
favour. They found his work generally deficient in 
energetic endeavour. They all thought he showed 
ability, but want of application, and his place in class 
was usually as low as it could be. There was likewise 
a laxity observable in his conduct, a thoughtless, easy- 
going, frivolous way of doing things, which was not 
commendable in a new boy. He had been more than 
once in a scrape which barely escaped the prefectorial 
censure. He had been late for roll on half-holidays. 
He had been caught smoking with another boy by one 
of the masters, who reported him to Dr. Saunderson, 
and he had been severely reprimanded, and only 


Digitized by 


Google 



48 ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 

escaped public punishment as being a new boy. The 
doctor had spoken to Maurice, knowing that he took 
an interest in Ernest. 

‘Elton, I don’t at all like the way Fairfield has 
begun. I wish you would give him a strong hint to 
be more careful in his conduct. He will get into 
serious trouble if he does not mind/ 

The fact was that the riff-raff sediment of idlers 
and loafers were not slow to see what sort of a fellow 
Ernest was. His handsome face and manly presence 
lent an air of respectability to their company. They 
flattered his vanity, and easily got him to cast in his 
lot with them. 

There was one boy in particular among the less 
reputable members of the college who spread his nets 
in Ernest’s sight, nor found it in vain. His name was 
Edgar Johnson. He had been in the Shell two terms 
already, and seemed likely to spend the remainder of 
his time there, since he was dull of intellect as well as 
incorrigibly idle. He was a boy of unpleasant 
countenance, with pale complexion, straight black 
hair, large black staring eyes of wild and vacant expres- 
sion, narrow stooping shoulders and awkward shuffling 
walk. By all who could lick him the sobriquet ‘ Cad ’ 
was generally prefixed to his name. Ernest being 
habitually in the lowest regions of the Shell, often 
found himself in close proximity to this unpromising 
subject. 

Ernest used not unfrequently to sit in Johnson’s 


Digitized by Google 



ST. ANDREW'S. 


49 


study of an evening between tea and chapel, during 
which time the construing lesson for next day had to 
be prepared. On one occasion Johnson had produced 
Bohn’s translation of Xenophon by way of assisting 
their studies. Now Ernest knew that cribs were 
unlawful, and when he became aware of the char- 
acter of the book a hot flush came over his face, and 
happening to put his hand in his waistcoat pocket he 
felt the pine-bark token, and instantly the remem- 
brance of the last afternoon on Lewesdon Hill came 
into his mind. He got up from his chair, and facing 
his companion, he said : 

‘ Look here, Johnson, I can’t stand cheating in 
work — that’s a little too much. If you mean to use 
that crib I must hook it. I know I can’t make any 
sense of the horrid stuff with only old Liddell and 
Scott to help me, but you won’t catch me cribbing in 
a hurry.’ 

‘All right, my dear fellow, don’t get excited. I 
don’t want to cheat — I’m not likely to get the prize. 
It merely saves trouble. But I don’t want to hurt 
your feelings. I’ll look at it when you’re gone. You 
can hammer away at your lexicon till you’re sick, and I 
wish you joy of it. Meantime I’ll read “Old St. Paul’s.” * 

Johnson kicked his lexicon across the room, and 
tilting his chair back on its hind-legs against the wall, 
began whistling no tune in particular, until the 
melody gradually died away as he became engrossed 
in the horrors of Chowles and Judith. 

4 


Digitized by Google 



5 ° 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


Johnson did not long stick to any book. His tastes 
did not incline towards literature. * Old St. Paul’s * 
soon shared the fate of the Greek lexicon, being 
hurled unceremoniously across the room, narrowly 
missing Ernest’s head, and smashing the glass of a 
picture on the opposite wall. 

c Look out, you idiot !’ shouted Ernest, as he gave 
vent to a loud peal of laughter. Jumping up, he 
bounded towards Johnson, and taking hold of the 
two front legs of the tilted chair, he commenced 
raising them, which had the effect of lowering his 
friend head downwards. There was no escape, for the 
chair had a semicircular cage round the seat. 

Johnson could only shriek with uproarious mirth, 
and gasp out his prayers for release; and as he 
wriggled and struggled the commotion assumed such 
noisy proportions that in another minute a heavy step 
was heard in the passage, and the door was immedi- 
ately burst open with a sounding kick. 

‘ What do you fellows mean by kicking up all this 
row ? What are you doing, Fairfield ? Let him get 
up. What’s your prep ? Xenophon ? Hullo ! that’s 
how you do it, is it? You scoundrels! You crib, 
do you ? We shall have to teach you manners, that’s 
plain. You will hear about this to-morrow.’ 

So saying, the prefect George Armstrong took up 
the Bohn and went off without further remark, slam- 
ming the door after him. 

Ernest had not as yet had any personal dealings 


Digitized by Google 



ST. ANDREW'S . 


51 


with the prefects, except so far as doing some minor 
details of fagging. Johnson had figured conspicuously 
in more than one escapade, which had the unpleasant 
result of an interview with that august tribunal 
Ernest therefore regarded the prospect with some 
alarm, nor were his apprehensions allayed when John- 
son said they were sure to be licked with the ground- 
ash. It was not so much the thought of castigation, 
as the sense of humiliation, which pressed heavily 
upon Ernest’s mind. He chafed against the suspicion 
of underhand conduct, and was unwilling to submit 
to punishment not deserved. He might have gone 
and explained to Maurice, and secured his mediation, 
but he was too proud to resort to such a means of 
defence. He did not wish to incriminate Johnson, 
and so he resolved to let the matter take its course. 

After evening chapel Maurice waylaid Ernest, and 
asked him to come to his study. Maurice had heard 
about the crib, and was anxious to hear Ernest’s 
account of the transaction. He did not believe that 
Ernest would demean himself by cribbing, but perhaps 
pressure had been brought to bear, and the vision of 
Mrs. Fairfield rose up before Maurice’s mind, and 
nerved him for the unpleasant task of questioning 
Ernest on the subject. 

When they were in his study Maurice said : 

‘Armstrong told me what he found, Ernest. I’m 
awfully sorry you happened to be in Johnson’s study 
at the time. I wish I could prevail upon you not to 

4—2 


Digitized by Google 



52 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


have so much to do with Johnson and Co. I’m sure 
they are a bad lot/ 

‘ Well, Maurice, you may set your mind at rest 
about the cribbing. I had nothing to do with the 
Bohn/ 

‘ I never for a moment supposed you had, my dear 
fellow ; but I’m sorry your name should be connected 
with Johnson’s in such a business/* 

‘ Well, it can’t be helped now. Johnson’s not such 
a bad fellow, after all. The masters don’t like him, 
and he hasn’t many friends ; but he’s a good-natured 
chap, and I don’t think he’ll do me any harm/ 

‘ Well, I don’t know, Ernest. I’m so awfully anxious 
that you should do well here, and that everyone 
should see that you are going to be Al, that I can’t 
bear to think that some may say you are not starting 
in a promising way. You know what the doctor said 
the other day. You know I promised your mother to 
do my best to help you, Ernest, so you must not mind 
anything I say. I’m afraid you must think me a 
Methodist preacher.’ 

‘ Mind, my dear fellow ? You are the best friend I 
have in the world, except mother and father. I know 
what you say is all right. But really, so far as I can 
see, Johnson is a very harmless sort of a chap. He’s 
a bit of an ass, and does idiotic things ; but that’s the 
worst that can be said of him. And because he’s 
kicked about from pillar to post, somehow I feel 
drawn towards him.’ 


Digitized by Google 



ST. ANDREW’S. 


53 


‘ Well, Ernest, I hope he won’t get you into any 
more mischief. Stick to it, and get up top of the 
Shell. I'm sure you can if you choose, and then you 
will not want to work with Johnson. Good-night' 


Digitized by Google 



CHAPTER Y. 


THE AREOPAGUS, AND FOOTBALL. 

Next day, between breakfast and school, Johnson and 
Ernest received command to come at once to the pre- 
fects’ common-room. The summons was peremptory, 
and admitted of no delay. The two companions in 
adversity met at the door of the ‘ Areopagus/ as the 
council- chamber was popularly called. Each tried to 
grin an expression of condolence with the other, but 
on Johnson’s part it was rather a dismal attempt. 
Johnson knew the taste of the ground-ash, and did 
not wish to make its further acquaintance. Ernest did 
not care much about a licking, but he was angry at 
having got into such a scrape, and was indignant at 
being implicated in a charge of cribbing. However, 
there was no possibility of escape, and whatever was 
to happen had better be got through as soon as 
possible. So, after a few whispered consultations, 
Johnson nudged Ernest, who knocked at the door of 
the common-room. 

‘ Come in !’ 

Ernest opened the door and walked into the room, 
followed by Johnson. There were four prefects pre- 


Digitized by Google 



THE AREOPAGUS , AND FOOTBALL. 


55 


sent, among whom was conspicuous the senior, George 
Armstrong. He was a handsome-looking lad, strong- 
built, standing about five feet nine inches, with deep 
chest and broad shoulders, and his well-made clothes 
showed off his figure to perfection. He had black hair 
parted in the middle, dark piercing eyes, aquiline nose, 
and a mouth indicating decision, just fringed on the 
upper lip with an incipient black moustache. He was 
the sort of boy to win hero-worshjp in a school. When 
in a good temper, his face wore a radiant smile, but at 
times its expression was clouded with a dark and 
ominous look. Armstrong was standing by the fire- 
place, with one elbow resting on the mantelpiece, and 
he had the Times in his hand. He looked hard at the 
two boys as they entered. His glance was evaded 
by Johnson, but Ernest met it with unflinching 
gaze. 

‘ Come in, you two fellows. You were making a 
great row last night in the studies, and I caught you 
with a crib. You know well enough that we won’t 
stand that — cribbing, I mean. There was no name in 
the Bohn which I grilled, but I suppose it belonged 
to one of you. Have you got anything to say V 

Johnson was as pale as a ghost, and stood shivering 
in a piteous attitude. He hardly dared look up, and 
when he tried to speak no voice came. Ernest looked 
at his comrade in adversity, and could scarcely repress 
a smile. There was something comical in his abject 
distress, so unusual in one who was generally in a 


Digitized by Google 



56 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


h a ppy-g°-l uc ky state of spirits. And as he looked at 
Johnson, a strange sort of pity welled up in Ernest's 
heart for his friend ; a hungry sense of sorrow stole 
over him, and a vision of home flashed across his 
mind, and a shiver seemed to run up his back and 
tingle in his face. 

‘ Well, can’t you speak ?’ said Armstrong, who had 
put down the Times and taken up a ground-ash 
stick that lay on the mantelpiece. ‘I think you 
said last night that you were not using the crib, 
Fairfield ?’ 

Before Ernest could answer, Johnson gasped out, in 
a thin, quavering voice : 

‘ He didn’t use it !’ 

4 Come forward, then, you young scoundrel f said 
Armstrong, gently tapping his boot with the ground- 
ash. 

Johnson shuffled two steps to the front, and Arm- 
strong, raising his arm, brought down the ash-stick 
with a sounding thwack across Johnson’s shoulders. 
His bones were but ill-protected by flesh, and the 
luckless boy gave a great howl of anguish as he saw 
the arm uplifted for a second stroke. But in that 
instant a very different sound was heard.. Two words 
were spoken — * Cowardly brute !’ — and two blows were 
struck by Ernest, right and left, straight from the 
shoulder, full between the eyes of George Armstrong, 
which sent him backwards over a chair full length 
upon the floor. Ernest stood there, his teeth set, his 


Digitized by Google 



THE AREOPAGUS, AND FOOTBALL . 


57 


hands clenched, his face white with emotion. For a 
moment there was the silence of amazement. Then 
two of the prefects sprang forward and seized Ernest 
each by an arm, while the other two went to the 
assistance of Armstrong. As for Johnson, he could 
only stand open-mouthed, and forgot to writhe and 
rub his shoulders in the utter bewilderment of wonder. 

Armstrong slowly rose to his feet, feeling consider- 
ably dazed by the overthrow. He pressed his hand 
upon his forehead, and breathed hard once or twice, 
and said : 

‘I’ll just go and wash my face, you fellows. Keep 
Fairfield there till I come back/ 

When he was gone the other prefects were not slow 
to speak, while Johnson, taking the favourable oppor- 
tunity, slipped out unperceived. 

‘ What could have possessed you to do that, you 
fool ? Were you mad ? If we report you, you’ll be 
expelled straight off. If we don’t report you, you’ll 
just have as tight a thrashing as a fellow ever had in 
his life/ 

Ernest saw at once that he had made a fool of him- 
self. He had yielded to a sudden impulse without a 
moment’s consideration of the consequences. He was 
glad to have saved Johnson a licking, but as he stood 
there before the indignation of outraged authority, he 
recognised the rashness of his conduct. 

‘ I’m sorry/ he said ; * I never thought what I was 
doing. I felt mad. I am awfully sorry/ 


Digitized by Google 



58 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


At this juncture Armstrong returned, his face much 
swollen, and with the promise of two black eyes for 
some time to come. He shut the door, and then 
walked up to Ernest. The other prefects waited for 
him to speak. 

‘ I'm sorry you should have knocked me down, Fair- 
field, because it was altogether an unconstitutional 
proceeding, as you probably know, and I shall have to 
give you as good a licking as you ever had. Stand 
round V 

There was no evasion. Memnon the Resolute was 
roused. Ernest was vanquished in the cause, and had 
the sense to offer no resistance. He instantly stood 
round, and received across his shoulders twenty cuts 
with the ground-ash as hard as the mighty Armstrong 
could let them in. Ernest bore the chastisement 
without a sound, and when it was over, being com- 
manded to leave the room, he left. 

It was a matter of no small excitement in the 
school when Johnson's report of the proceedings had 
been spread. His fairly unvarnished account had 
been passed from mouth to mouth, and received 
various embellishments]during the process ; and when 
next Armstrong appeared in public he was an object of 
curiosity to all the boys. He came out into the play- 
ground as usual at the quarter-hour, when there was 
generally a friendly game of football, in which high 
and low, prefect and fag, mingled in amicable strife. 
Armstrong was the acknowledged champion. There 


Digitized by Google 



Digitized by 







THE AREOPAGUS , AND FOOTBALL . 


59 


was no one who could touch him in feats of strength 
and agility. He was secure in the consciousness of 
his power, and so he just mingled in the fray as if 
nothing had happened. He even encouraged chaff, for 
when the opposite side scored a goal he curved his 
forefinger and thumb into the position of an eye- 
glass, and peered in the direction of the posts and 
asked : 

‘ Was that a goal, you fellows ? I can't see quite as 
clearly as usual this morning/ 

This sally was received with a general laugh, and 
someone expressed the popular feeling by calling out, 

‘ Three cheers for Armstrong !’ which was instantly re- 
sponded to with thundering applause, no voice being 
more lustily exerted than that of Ernest Fairfield. 
Armstrong's face glowed with satisfaction as he took 
off his cap, and bowed with a jocose affectation of 
imperial dignity. He was eager for popularity, and 
nothing pleased him more than such spontaneous 
testimony to the fact that he was appreciated and 
admired. He had his failings, like every other mortal, 
and if ever I write his history (as I hope some day to 
do) it will be seen that this trait had its influence 
upon his character. 

But if on this occasion Armstrong was accredited 
with having done no more than his duty, there were 
not wanting many boys who magnified the heroism of 
Ernest in befriending Johnson. In Johnson's eyes 
Ernest was as great a hero as the Duke of Well- 


Digitized by Google 



6o 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


ington. Johnson did not weary of telling the tale 
of his rescue, and he was as proud of his friendship 
with Ernest as the proverbial peacock. For several 
days afterwards he would make a parade of his ad- 
miration which Ernest could not resent, though he 
had rather too much of it. Johnson would link his 
arm in Ernest’s, and saunter with him about the play- 
ground, and lead him where he pleased, as we may 
have seen a mirthful puppy lead a retriever along by 
the ear. And under Ernest’s wing Johnson found 
opportunity for advancing in the social scale, until he 
even attained to some influence among the more re- 
spectable section of the community. But he con- 
tinued, as before, an idle, disreputable fellow, and it 
would be difficult to analyze Ernest’s motives for 
keeping up such close intimacy with him. He had 
seen enough of him to know that he was thoroughly 
unprincipled, and it did not require Maurice’s inter- 
vention to convince him that such a character is not 
desirable in an intimate friend. 

Meantime the days were growing shorter, and the term 
was passing on, and Ernest was thoroughly enjoying life 
out of school hours. He was an enthusiast at foot- 
ball, and had been playing up in splendid style in class 
matches and trial games, which formed a preparation 
for the important college matches which came on 
towards the end of term. Ernest was captain of the 
Shell Fifteen, a distinction never before attained by a 
new boy. But he had proved himself far the best 


Digitized by Google 



THE AREOPAGUS, AND FOOTBALL. 61 

player, understanding the game thoroughly. He had 
distinguished himself in the earlier games, and had 
won the commendation of the College Fifteen, who 
recommended him as captain of his class, and so he 
had been elected to that important post nemine con- 
tradicente. Under his leadership the Shell had 
beaten a team of the junior classes. It had also 
beaten the Lower Fifth by two goals to a try, and had 
played a drawn game with the Upper Fifth ; and now 
the Shell folk were in a state of fermentation at the 
prospect of playing a team of the Lower Sixth and 
Upper Fifth combined — the former class only num- 
bering ten members. Ernest was in great excitement 
about the game. The Lower Sixth boasted four 
members of the College Fifteen in its ranks, which 
formed a solid element of strength. But with the 
exception of these their team did not show much 
talent, and the Shell happened at this period to con- 
tain five or six great hulking fellows whose bodies 
were out of all proportion to their brains. Ernest 
had instilled some of his spirit into these burly men, 
and prevailed upon them to regulate their diet on 
training principles, and take daily runs to improve 
their wind. Furthermore, victory had fired the Shell 
with the explosive enthusiasm of success, and so, 
when this important game was proposed, it was sup- 
ported by universal acclaim. 

The challenge came from the Lower Sixth in this 
wise. It was Thursday in the last week of October. 


Digitized by Google 



62 ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 

Afternoon lessons were over, and the freedom of un- 
bridled tumult was supplanting the restraint of 
studious decorum. Some of the Shell-fish were 
standing round the fire ; others were sky-larking over 
the desks. Ernest was talking football-shop with the 
burly men. The class-room door was open, and 
Johnson had just shuffled in with his usual attempt 
at swagger and importance. No one took any notice 
of him until the attention of everyone was arrested 
by a shrill tarantara ! Looking round, they saw the 
insignificant form of that saucy youth standing erect 
on the master’s desk, with a newspaper screwed round 
into the shape of a trumpet, from which proceeded 
the martial blast. It was not until two grammars 
and a lexicon had been successively and successfully 
shied at that presumptuous upstart that he was pre- 
vailed upon to cease his trumpetings and address him- 
self to the important business thus heralded forth. 
This he did in a shrill squeaky voice, holding before 
him a quarter-sheet of school paper, from which he 
read the following announcement : 

‘To all whom it may concern, notice is hereby 
given, that the Lower Sixth and Upper Fifth have 
conspired together to issue a challenge to the honour- 
able society of the Shell, to meet them on the college 
ground in a game of football next Saturday at half- 
past two. In witness whereof behold this paper, 
whereon the challenge is inscribed.’ 

There was a rush from the fireplace to the master’s 


Digitized by Google 



THE AREOPAGUS, AND FOOTBALL. 63 

desk, and a race for the prize of the paper. Johnson, 
in the scuffle that ensued, got bowled over, and 
alighted somewhere under the desks. The paper, 
much crumpled, was eventually handed to Ernest, 
who pored over it with extreme relish; and amid 
repeated acclamations of assent it was unanimously 
resolved to accept the challenge, and a formal accept- 
ance was promptly drawn up on a similar quarter- 
sheet of school paper, and conveyed by Johnson to 
the headquarters of the Lower Sixth. 

‘That's all right,' said Ernest, rubbing his hands 
and dancing a minuet. ‘ We'll play up like maniacs, 
and wire in with all our might, you fellows ! Let's 
see ; to-day is Thursday, we shall play the day after 
to-morrow. Atkinson is seger ; who can we get to 
play instead ?' 

‘Well, there's not much choice,' said one of the 
heavy dragoons; ‘either Dormer, or Shorthouse, or 
Johnson ; there's no one else. Which shall it be ?' 

‘ It will not make much difference,' said Ernest. 

4 1 dare say Johnson would render as good an account 
of himself as either of the other two, though he's 
about as much at home in a scrimmage as a cat in a 
swimming-bath. Shall it be Johnson? Then John- 
son let it be.' 

When Johnson returned from his embassy he was 
informed that he had been selected to fill the vacancy 
in the Shell team for that important match. 

‘ Just you mind you play up, young cad,' said one 


Digitized by Google 



64 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


of the burly men. * You will have to play back on 
the left, and if they get a try on your side you’ll be 
flayed alive, so look out !’ 

Considerable excitement reigned throughout the 
college in anticipation of this match. There was no 
other game of interest for that Saturday, and so it 
commanded undivided attention. 

There was a goodly gathering of spectators ranged 
round the ground as the two teams gradually came 
upon the arena in twos and threes, until all were 
assembled in their places. The Sixth wore dark blue 
jerseys, the Shell white jerseys striped with blue. 

Never had Ernest felt so keenly excited in prospect 
of a game. Not only was ho anxious for his side to 
win, but it seemed generally understood that if his 
own individual play was brilliant he would be elected 
to fill the vacant place in the College Fifteen. It 
would be an unheard-of thing for a fellow to get into 
the fifteen his first term, and Ernest’s ambition was 
stirred. 

See him, then, standing half-back, having just 
marshalled his men in their places. He is, indeed, 
a splendid-looking young fellow ! Never does a boy 
look more to advantage than when his soul is 
energizing his body in a game of football, that is, 
if nature has cut him out for a football-player. Some 
boys never look more out of their element than in 
the football-field ; but given a strong, well-built, 
athletic figure, given a boy who can run like Asahel, 


Digitized by Google 



THE AREOPAGUS, AND FOOTBALL 65 


with the fleetness of a roe, one who can prove what 
is meant by power in motion — given one whose am- 
bitions are centred upon football — and nowhere will 
he be seen to greater advantage than in his favourite 
pastime. Such was Ernest. 

And now the game had begun. It was a fast game, 
contested by superb energy on both sides. It began 
with a vigorous scrimmage in the centre of the ground, 
the forwards locked together in a surging phalanx, 
exerting their utmost effort in a common cause. Surely 
that is a grand sight ! trivial the object, but glorious 
the manifestation of absolute energy devoted to a 
cause. 

Mighty was the pushing on both sides; heads 
thrown forward, arms circling round backs, chests 
heaving and groaning with exertion, every muscle 
strained to extreme tension. For a time the ball 
was almost stationary in the midst of the striving, 
struggling host. Then the equilibrium was disturbed, 
and the ball moved. The Sixth bear on, the phalanx 
breaks up, the ball bounds forward towards the other 
goal. Ernest has relieved the pressure by a short but 
brilliant run more than once, but has not yet found 
his opportunity. And so on, amid the usual vicissitudes 
of scrimmages and runs, neither side gaining any 
point before half-time was called. 

The burly men had fought the battle nobly, and 
Ernest was exultant at their negative success. They 
had not scored, but they had warded off the vigorous 

5 


Digitized by Google 



66 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


onslaughts of the foe. His side had had the dis- 
advantage of playing uphill with the sun in their 
eyes, and the wind against them. Now with the 
change of goal they might reasonably hope for 
decided advantage. He encouraged his men to 
‘stick to it like niggers/ and put forth their very 
best endeavours, and certainly he backed up his pre- 
cepts by example. ‘Well played, Fairfield! go it, 
Shell !’ such shouts were frequently heard. 

And now half the remaining half of the game had 
passed, and still nothing decisive had been gained. 
The pace had told upon several players on either 
side, and there was an obvious falling-off in the tre- 
mendous vigour of the conflict. The Sixth were 
managing to keep the ball in their opponents' quarters 
despite the loss of advantage by change of direction. 
They were getting dangerously near the Shell goal. 
Then Ernest had his opportunity at last. Getting 
hold of the ball, he ran, dodging three of the Sixth 
at the outset, running half-way down the ground at 
his swiftest speed, amid tremendous cheering. On he 
speeds, avoiding one opponent after another by dash- 
ing energy and supreme skill. On, on ! now he is 
within the twenty-five ; the backs are passed ; nothing 
before him but the goal ; no one can touch him ; he 
carries the ball behind and touches it down between 
the posts. Thunders of applause greeted this splendid 
run. Beyond a doubt his promotion into the fifteen 
was secured. 


Digitized by Google 



THE AREOPAGUS , AND FOOTBALL. 67 

The ‘place-kick’ was assigned to Kingdon, who 
generally undertook that important duty for the Shell. 
Never had an easier kick fallen to his lot. No wind, 
no sun to balk him, the ball straight in front of the 
goal. But, alas for the fickleness of fortune ! Kingdon 
knit his brows, and measured the distance with his 
eye, and gave his directions to the placer with the 
utmost nicety; he loaded his right leg, and sung 
out, ‘ All right ; put her down !’ He kicked, and the 
ball just did not pass between the posts. Ernest 
bit his lip with vexation and disappointment, but 
comforted himself with the thought that only five 
minutes’ play remained, and the others were not 
likely to get anything in that short space. Ah, but 
there is an old adage, ‘ the game is not lost till it is 
won.’ The issues of a great battle have possibly been 
decided ere now in five minutes. On the part of the 
Sixth it was the despairing effort of forlorn hope. 
They got the ball for the last time within the Shell 
‘ twenty-five.’ It was caught up by A, overhauled by 
B, grabbed at by C, passed on to D, who was collared, 
by E. There was tight scrimmaging and loose scrim- 
maging, and what followed took less than one minute. 

Davison, the smallest and feeblest player on the 
Sixth side, suddenly found the ball in his hands. How 
it came there he could not tell. It was no fault of his 
— he had done nothing all through the game but keep 
on the outskirts of the conflict and get in the way of 
his own side. Anyhow, in the last minute of the 

5—2 


Digitized by C >gle 



68 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


game he found the ball in his hands. Johnson was 
near him, and should have collared him in half a 
second. But he made no pretence of an attempt to 
do so. Davison saw the posts above him : he had 
never made a drop-kick in his life : he didn’t want the 
ball, but in a flurried manner he dropped it and gave 
a spasmodical kick. 

The ball rose in the air, and sailed gracefully over 
the crossbar ! 


Digitized by Google 



CHAPTER VI. 


THE SONG OF THE HOOPOE. 

The Sixth were no less amused than elated by their 
victory, and their triumphant shouts were spiced with 
an accent of derisive mirth, which was peculiarly 
irritating to the nerves of their opponents. That last 
episode which finally decided the game had been en- 
acted in the last minute. It was a curious conclusion 
to a spirited contest, and most exasperating to the side 
which lost. The burly men among the Shell-folk were 
loud in their expressions of disgust against that 
pusillanimous poltroon Johnson, and Ernest could not 
restrain his violent indignation any better than the 
others. But his wrath was pacified that evening when 
Armstrong came to his study and complimented him 
on his good play, and said that the committee had 
elected him to fill the vacancy in the Fifteen. The 
late unpleasantness between these two was forgiven 
and forgotten, and Armstrong generously sympathized 
with Ernest’s proud delight at the honour bestowed 
upon him. 

The Monday following that Saturday is connected 
in my old diary of those times with an incident which 
had important issues in Ernest’s history, 


Digitized by Google 



7o 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


The class-room in which the Shell pursued their 
studies and prepared their work was a well-propor- 
tioned room, with an ordinary master’s desk at one 
end, and a massive chair with a drawer under the 
seat. At the opposite end of the room were three rows 
of desks and forms ; and in front of the master’s desk 
was a roomy semicircular form, at which the boys sat 
when engaged in a lesson. 

On that Monday morning the class was assembled 
for a lesson in Hortier. . Mr. Raikes, the master, had 
just entered the room, and was in the act of restoring 
order to the somewhat unruly spirits before him. He 
had only arrived that term, and had had no previous 
experience in managing and instructing boys, and the 
Shell was not the pleasantest kind of form on which to 
begin practising. Consequently it may be understood 
that Mr. Raikes did not often draw a comparison 
between the dusty floor of the class-room and the 
asphodel meadows of Homer’s Elysium. 

‘ Now then, get out your lexicons and prepare 
twenty lines. No more noise !’ 

There was a considerable banging of lids of desks by 
way of prelude to the execution of these commands. 
The boys were allowed to work together. They did so 
mostly in pairs, sharing the toil on strictly co-operative 
principles. One looked out the words, while the other 
made out the sense. Occasionally when both partners 
were keen about the work, each armed himself with a 
lexicon and looked out words. 


Digitized by Google 



THE SONG OF THE HOOPOE. 


7 1 


Ernest and Johnson were snugly ensconced together 
with their classical artillery, prepared for action. The 
battery was not very efficiently provided — only one 
Homer and one lexicon between them. Ernest, as 
being gifted with the greater physical strength, tackled 
the lexicon ; while Johnson, flattering himself on his 
intellectual superiority, took upon him the office of 
squeezing out the sense. 

They had got through two lines, and now Johnson 
announced the word popoi as requiring solution. 
Ernest fumbled away at the pages, and after eyeing the 
pop words up and down, and fingering them affec- 
tionately during the process, finally spotted the culprit. 

‘ Oh, I say, it’s the cry of the hoopoe ! What in- the 
world are they up to? Here, let us see the stuff. 
Juno must be drunk ! “ 0 , the cry of the hoopoe , shall 
we . . . shall we .. . while the long-eared Greeks ” 9 

‘ Long-haired, you fool !' interposed Johnson, who 
carried on the work by a whispered commentary. 
‘ Oh, I cannot stand this rot ! I shall ask old Raikes 
how a hoopoe sings. It can’t mean that the idiotic 
bird takes out its pocket-handkerchief and blubbers 
like a baby.’ 

‘ Don't be a fool/ said Ernest ; ‘ you will only get a 
hundred lines.’ 

‘ Bosh ! I will, though !’ 

And, waiting for a lull, Johnson stood up at his desk, 
and in his squeaky voice called out : 

* Please, sir, how does a hoopoe sing V 


Digitized by Google 



72 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


The boys looked up, and turned their eyes first 
upon Johnson and then towards Mr. Raikes. Some 
laughed. Ernest lost all control over his risible in- 
clinations, and burst out into a clattering volley of 
laughter, which he vainly strove to choke by stuffing 
his handkerchief into his mouth. 

Mr. Raikes, who was engaged in correcting exercises, 
put up his pince-nez and looked in the direction of the 
voice. 

‘ What do you mean by that impertinence ? You 
will stay in afterwards and write out the lesson/ 

‘ Please, sir, I don’t mean to be impertinent at all, 
sir. It's Homer, sir. D’you know, sir, J uno says, sir, 
“ 0 song of the hoopoe, why do the long-eared Greeks 
go for the Trojans with ” ’ 

‘ Will you sit down and hold your tongue? I shall 
report you to the Doctor for insolence/ 

Johnson sat down for a moment, and then, taking 
up his Homer, he deliberately left his desk and walked 
up to Mr. Raikes. 

‘ Please, sir, may I go out of the room ? I wish to 
see the Doctor/ 

‘ Certainly not. Go and sit down !’ 

‘ I don’t see why I should have an imposition for 
nothing, and I mean to show the Doctor that it’s what 
Homer says/ 

‘ Will you be quiet and sit down in your place ? 
Fairfield, how dare you laugh in that audacious 
manner ? You must stay behind and write out the 


Digitized by Google 



THE SONG OF THE [HOOPOE. 


73 


lesson too. You two boys demoralize the class. I 
shall send a note to the Doctor at once/ 

This was a serious development of the matter. 
Johnson subsided and walked back to his seat, hoping 
to appease the wrath of the offended master by 
apparent submission to his authority. But Mr. Raikes’ 
blood was up, and having hastily written a note, he 
requested the senior boy to take it. 

Dr. Saunderson was occupied with the Upper Sixth. 
They were construing a chorus of the Agamemnon, 
and the Doctor was in high fettle, doing his best to 
elicit those nice distinctions of scholarship so dear to 
the soul of a classical first-class man. To interrupt 
him at such a moment was equivalent to snatching a 
bone from a ravenous lion. At the sound of a knock 
at the door the Doctor’s brow contracted, and his 
tongue thundered forth : 

‘ Come in !’ 

Simpkins Major entered, and bowing deferentially, 
handed the note to the head-master. He read it, and 
mumbled to himself the words, ‘ Tiresome idiots !’ and 
then, commanding the class to look out any words 
they did not know, he hastened out of the room. 
Stopping at a certain cupboard in the passage, he 
opened it and selected a cane, and thus 'armed he 
strode on towards the class-room. Into that room 
he burst like a whirlwind, and stood trembling with 
fury. 

‘ Why can’t you silly fellows behave yourselves ? 


Digitized by Google 



74 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


Come here, Fairfield and Johnson. What do you 
mean by your impertinence ? Stand round !’ 

There followed a dozen strokes with the cane across 
the shoulders of Fairfield, who set his teeth hard and 
did not actually utter a cry, though he winced under 
the terrific chastisement, and his jacket was cut. 
Johnson had no champion to defend him this time, 
and the poor skinny wretch, after the first two cuts, 
grovelled on the floor and howled for mercy. The 
Doctor was not to be balked of his prey. He seized 
him up by the arm and held him at length, and gave 
him his share with interest. At last he finished, and 
the miserable youth went back blubbering to his seat. 
The Doctor said nothing more, but left the room, 
banging the door after him. 

Mr. Raikes was considerably distressed at the severity 
of the punishment. He seemed quite unnerved, and 
could hardly get through the lesson, and when it was 
over he quickly put away his books, and hurried off to 
calm his agitated feelings in the privacy of his own 
apartment. 

The boys were not slow to talk over what had taken 
place. 

‘ I say, didn’t he just swish into them ! Fairfield, 
you stood it like a Trojan; but, by Jove! if I were 
you, I’d send old Sandy in a bill for a new jacket— it’s 
cut into strips. Poor young Johnson! He’s got no 
flesh on his bones. It was an awful shame to thrash 
him so unmercifully. But when the old gentleman’s 


Digitized by Google 



THE SONG OF THE HOOPOE. 


75 


blood is up he would as soon flog a fellow to death as 
look at him. He wants the society for suppressing 
cruelty to animals on his war-trail !’ 

Such remarks were freely indulged; and if the 
matter had been debated in the House of Commons, 
possibly it might have been proved that there were at 
least two good sides to the question. 

Now I will ask the gentle reader s kind indulgence 
for a very short digression — the first, I think, which 
has yet interrupted the outspreading of my tale ; and 
if I promise him that such an indiscretion shall 
hardly occur again, perhaps he will consent to finish 
the paragraph. Experience convinces me that school- 
stories are, as a rule, more popular with boys than any 
others ; yet never, perhaps, is a school-story given to 
the public but some reviewer suggests that it puts 
boys up to foolish and mischievous practices. The 
author may studiously endeavour to counterbalance 
every scrape and misdemeanour with suitable penalties 
and unhappy consequences, but in spite of all he 
renders himself liable to critical expostulation and 
censure. Alas ! what is he to do ? It is a misfortune 
of school-life in stories that any description of the 
ordinary routine, omitting all indiscreet and question- 
able conduct, might sound dull and uninteresting. 
Were I to write a faithful record of the day’s doings 
at St. Andrew’s College from week to week as regarded 
the generality of the boys, interspersed with records of 
cricket and football, it might fall under the charge of 


Digitized by Google 



76 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


monotony, like Mark Twain’s diary : ‘ Got up, dressed, 
went to bed : got up, dressed, went to bed.’ The con- 
clusion arrived at is, that if a school-story has to be 
written with the hope of finding readers, it must con- 
tain much that savours of scrapes, and it will be well 
if that be not too mild a term. As with nations, so 
with schoolboys. Someone has suggested that all 
history is the record of a nation’s wars — that happy is 
the nation which has no history. And possibly for 
most of us who are able to look back upon school- 
days, if we were well-behaved boys, and worked hard, 
and went on in the orthodox manner, and kept out of 
foolish scrapes, the remembrance is blurred and devoid 
of particular character. This is such as it should be 
Happy is the man who, as he looks back, finds no 
history of his schooldays ! 

After this escapade Johnson clung to Ernest more 
persistently than ever, and often expressed his fear 
that now Ernest was a swell in the Fifteen he would 
have nothing more to say to him. Ernest had not 
the heart to intimate that Johnson’s attentions might 
be less pressing, and that it misbecame a member of 
the Fifteen to be concerned in foolish scrapes. There 
was one important scheme which Johnson had formed* 
and he was minded to take Ernest into confidence and 
enlist him as a colleague in carrying it out. It had 
reference to the fifth of November. 

The boys at St. Andrew’s College were allowed to 
have fireworks, and, more strange still to relate, they 


Digitized by Google 



THE SONG OF THE HOOPOE. 77 

were allowed to make them, in the year of which I am 
writing. Of all the extraordinary stretches of school 
discipline this surely was pre-eminent. I could not 
believe it, only that it happens to be an item of 
authentic history, to corroborate which I could bring 
a host of witnesses if necessary. It was never allowed 
afterwards, as was only natural, for during the fort- 
night before the fifth hardly a night passed without 
an explosion of some sort. Every study was trans- 
formed for the time being into an arsenal; the 
thump and thud of hammering sounded behind every 
door. 

The principal article of manufacture was squibs. 
Some boy introduced the method, and, like the rabbits 
in Australia, from a humble beginning the pest multi- 
plied with alarming rapidity. The carpenters drove 
a thriving trade in supplying rammers and mallets. 
There was a rivalry about the number and size of the 
squibs turned out. Hundreds — I might almost say 
thousands — were manufactured, varying from the 
dimensions of a large pencil to those of a small 
cannon. Woolwich Arsenal was nowhere! If you 
did not blow up your neighbour, he was sure to blow 
you up: if you did not complete your half-dozen 
between tea and chapel, honour compelled you to sit 
up afterwards till they were done. Why, a master 
actually took as an excuse for a copy of verses not 
finished that the author was making squibs, and hadn’t 
time ! 


Digitized by Google 



78 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


Johnson had got hold of a catalogue of fireworks 
supplied by a London firm, and his scheme was to 
get up a subscription for purchasing something 
more worthy of the popular anniversary than mere 
squibs. 

‘ Look here, Ernest, look at this catalogue. J ust 
listen ! Asteroid rockets, jewelled fountains, mine 
with Bengal lights discharging a cloud of fiery 
serpents, devil-among-the-tailors — a most . exciting 
piece of pyrotechny. Ha ! ha ! I should think so 
— just the very thing to put under old Raikes’ chair 
when he’s in one of his rages ! Chinese fire-crackers, 
Gold Chop, Chung Wow. Now, look here, Fairfield; 
what we must do is to get some of the chaps to sub- 
scribe, and we’ll have down an assortment of these 
exciting pieces of pyrotechny. I’m sure they’d like it, 
and it will be a feature in the evening’s entertainment, 
as the conjuror said, when he produced a cabbage out 
of a gentleman’s silk hat. What do you think of the 
plan V 

‘ Awfully good. I’ll give five bob.’ 

‘ So will I— that’s a beginning. We’ll get a book 
and stick down what each fellow gives. You must 
ask them; you’re the gentleman of the company. 
They wouldn’t give me as many halfpence as kicks.’ 

So it was settled that Ernest should undertake the 
task of canvassing for subscriptions. Johnson, who 
wrote a good copy-book hand, drew up a programme 
of the various fireworks he proposed to get, and 


Digitized by Google 



THE SONG OF THE HOOPOE. 79 

gave it to Ernest together with the small book for 
entering the names and contributions of subscribers. 
He also admonished him to employ his most per- 
suasive arguments and swell the fund to his utmost 
capacity. 

The result of the enterprise was highly satisfactory, 
and when the day arrived for closing the list Ernest 
was able to hand over to Johnson the imposing sum 
of four pounds eighteen shillings and sixpence. 
Johnson congratulated him on his successful diplo- 
macy, and said he ought to be Chancellor of the 
Exchequer; and that afternoon Johnson made out a 
list of goods required, which he duly forwarded with 
a post-office order to the manufactory. It was 
announced that each subscriber should receive a 
certain quantity of squibs, crackers, and catherine- 
wheels, according to the amount of his subscription, 
while a splendid assortment of rockets and Roman 
candles and set-pieces as described in the programme 
should be purchased up to the sum subscribed. 

Then someone suggested the preparation of Guy 
Fawkes and effigies, and the idea was at once adopted. 
A numerous array of the most hideous masked monsters 
was constructed. Old jackets and trousers were freely 
supplied — nay, it was hinted that not one or two 
bolsters were surreptitiously pressed into the service — 
and upwards of seventy figures were registered on the 
official list, each with its appropriate name. The 
prefects had obtained Dr. Saunderson’s consent to 


Digitized by Google 



8o 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


the fiery festival. They were to be held reponsible for 
all things being done in a manner consistent with the 
safety of life and property. They arranged the order 
of the entertainment, and issued special instructions 
and rules for the insurance of safety. One rule was 
that no one should put a lighted squib down his 
neighbour’s back, or into his pocket, nor eke a 
cracker. 

The official scheme of the carnival was as follows : 
First was to come off a general sham-fight represent- 
ing the siege of Sebastopol, in which, from two opposite 
sides of the playground, all the squibs made on the 
premises were to be let off. This general fizzment was 
to be varied by rockets and Roman candles provided 
by the liberality of the Areopagus. Then was to 
follow a special display of the fireworks provided by 
the Johnsonian subscribers; and the proceedings were 
to be concluded by a grand masquerade of guys. 
These were to be carried round the playground in a 
torchlight procession, to the accompaniment of songs 
and choruses. They were then to be arranged round 
the bonfire in the centre of the playground, the whole 
school assisting at the general flare-up. This part of 
the entertaihment was to represent the burning of 
Rome (some Roman candles being specially set apart 
as appropriate illuminants for the occasion), and 
Maurice, the famous fiddler, was commanded to dress 
himself up as Nero, and perform on his fiddle during 
the conflagration, while the seventy guys, being set 


Digitized by Google 


THE SONG OF THE HOOPOE. 81 

ablaze, were to represent the famous ‘ living torches ’ 
of history. 

It will be readily understood that the advent of the 
fifth was awaited with no small excitement by the 
young gentlemen of St Andrew’s College. 


6 


Digitized by Google 



CHAPTER VII. 


THE FIFTH OF NOVEMBER. 

During the last few days the relations between Mr. 
Raikes and Johnson had been decidedly strained. 
Ernest had held aloof and given no further cause for 
offence; but Johnson had assumed an air of injured 
innocence, and took every opportunity of expressing 
his ill-will. 

Mr. Raikes had at times a humorous way of trying 
to extract jokes from the lessons. He would occa- 
sionally tell a quaint story, at which the boys were 
intended to laugh ; but as often as not the big dunces 
would put on a stolid stare, as though they failed to 
see anything amusing, and then, amid profound silence, 
the master would blush and clear his throat, and feel 
sorry he spoke. 

On the morning of the fourth, Johnson had come into 
class in a very untidy and disreputable state. He had 
been finishing off the last of his squibs, and had taken 
off not only his jacket, but his collar and tie, to 
expedite his movements. He was very hot, and 
galloped off begrimed with gunpowder five minutes 
after the bell, buttoning his collar as he burst into the 


Digitized by Google 



THE FIFTH OF NOVEMBER. 


83 


class-room. The other boys were preparing a lesson 
of Ovid, and as Johnson bustled and panted with 
unnecessary noise to his place, he disturbed the general 
order of the class. 

Mr. Raikes, elevating his pince-nez , eyed the last 
arrival with a frown. 

‘ You are late, Johnson, and you are very untidy. 
You actually have no necktie ! I cannot allow this ; 
you must write out one hundred times the words, A 
necktie collo annecti debet. For fear you should 
misunderstand the precept, I will write it down for 
you.’ 

Mr. Raikes flattered himself that this was the 
happiest pun he had ever made ; and for once his 
attempt at wit was appreciated. The big boys began 
to giggle, and one faintly clapped, and another gently 
stamped, and gradually from piano the applause 
crescendoed to fortissimo. Yainly did Mr. Raikes try 
to assuage the tumult, which only abated when the 
applauders were exhausted, and the preparation was 
continued. 

At the appointed time dictionaries were put away, 
and the boys took their places for the lesson. They 
hammered and tonged over the lines, blundering the 
quantities, murdering the Latin, shooting at the 
English, and vexing the soul of their master right sore. 
Towards the close of the lesson it was Johnson’s turn 
to go on, and he fell into a pitfall at the very first 
line. 

6—2 


Digitized by Google 



8 4 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


‘ Tene, sacer vates,flammce rapuere rogales ? Hold, 
sacred poet * 

‘ Hold V said Mr. Raikes, with a scowl of contempt ; 
‘ why, you are making two false quantities over the 
first word !’ 

Johnson looked intently at the word to see what 
insidious mischief could possibly be lurking under its 
plausible and apparently innocent exterior. Ah ! it 
suddenly occurred to him that tene was compounded 
of te and ne. So he corrected himself with a bounce 
and said : 

‘ Do not, sacred poet * 

‘ There goes a third false quantity/ screamed the 
master ; ‘ three false quantities in a word of two syl- 
lables ! who could believe it ? You ought to be senior 
classic some day, Johnson !* 

The class again greeted this facetious sally with 
boisterous applause. They roared and shrieked with 
laughter. The burly men bent forward and held 
their sides, and patted one another on the back, and 
pointed the finger of scorn at Johnson. Mr. Raikes 
could not forbear a smile of complaisant satisfaction, 
though he knew too well that this riotous explosion of 
mirth was only an excuse for impertinence. He felt 
that in future he must restrain his wit, as being too 
intoxicating for the spirits of his class. 

Johnson did not appreciate the fun. He could not 
stand being made the laughing-stock of the class. He 
pouted and blushed as red as his pale complexion 


Digitized by Google 



THE FIFTH OF NOVEMBER. 85 

could blush, and collapsed in tears, hiding his face 
behind his book. 

When lesson was over he had a lively time of it 
with the big members of the Shell. 

‘ You are a young blubbering baby !’ said the gigantic 
Norman, sauntering up to him arm-in-arm with Ernest. 
‘ But who can be surprised when you funk a fellow 
half your size at football ? I wish you were a football 
I’d kick you over the moon!* An indignant kick 
followed these remarks ; and Ernest could not refrain 
from a disdainful smile. Any allusion to that game of 
football was gall and wormwood to him. 

Johnson had seen ever since the loss of that match 
that Ernest despised and snubbed him ; and feelings of 
jealous hatred against Ernest for his popularity and 
success began to creep into Johnson’s heart. And as 
he mooned about the field after that interview with 
Ernest and Norman, brooding over his evil thoughts, 
he resolved to pay out both Ernest and Mr. Raikes the 
next day. 

The box of fireworks had arrived, and J ohnson had 
unpacked it in the privacy of his study. He would 
not let even Ernest be present, for the fact was Johnson 
had appropriated half the money subscribed, and only 
expended the other half upon fireworks. He said 
nothing about the arrival of the box till the next 
morning, when the subscribers were invited to come 
to his study and receive their allotments. There was 
grumbling in no measured terms over the distribu- 


Digitized by Google 



86 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


tion ; but Johnson, who had hidden the more impor- 
tant goods, told them to ‘ hold their jaw until they 
had seen the magnificent marvels in store for the grand 
display/ 

‘ By how much the less you receive now, you fools, 
by so much the more shall you see this evening, as we 
say in the classics. Ah, but you grovelling idiots do 
not appreciate the beauties of Homer — “ then up stood 
all the long-eared Greeks, and sang the song of the 
hoopoe ” !* and Johnson whistled an imitation of that 
warbler’s melody with comical grimaces, by way of 
cajoling the disappointed traders. 

‘ It's bosh you fellows thinking you have not got 
enough ; why, these squibs will make twice the fizz of 
those rotten things the chaps have made — and then 
the rockets, and turribilions, and devil-among-the- 
tailors ! Oh, they will be proper !’ 

The discontented crew went off, and reserved their 
judgment till after the performance should be over. 

It grew dark and cloudy towards four o’clock, and 
promised well for the evening. There was to be no 
preparation, and the whole time between tea and 
chapel was to be devoted to fireworks. 

Within five minutes of the rush out of hall after 
tea the signal for the commencement of the display 
was raised. A gigantic squib, home-made, was planted 
securely in a flower-pot and elevated on a stand in 
the middle of the playground. It did not prove 
altogether a success. For when a trembling hand 


Digitized by Google 



THE FIFTH OF NOVEMBER. 


8 7 


ignited the touch- paper, while all the boys stood 
round with eyes intently fixed upon the infinitesimal 
spark, it seemed such an age of waiting that various 
uncomplimentary remarks were passed. The maker 
said it was all right; the touch-paper was rather 
damp. The spark at last fairly disappeared, and the 
fabricator of the engine felt called upon to take 
stringent measures to retrieve his reputation. He 
went cautiously up, evidently doubting the honesty of 
his squib’s intentions. What if it should be playing 
dark — treacherously intent on luring him to destruc- 
tion ? He advanced with a lighted porte-feu and care- 
fully relit the blue paper. It gave a slight spit and 
a fizzle. He drew back with haste. All eyes glared 
upon the spark, which grew dimmer and dimmer, and 
finally went out. A groan of disgust broke from the 
eager circle of spectators. 

Smythe senior grew desperate. At all hazards the 
‘ infernal machine ’ should go off ! Once more he ap- 
proached with his porte-feu , and rammed it down 
upon the touch-paper till the top of the squib was 
actually burning like a torch. Still there were no 
symptoms of a genuine eruption. 

Ah ! it’s beginning ! A slight cheer greeted two 
spasmodic fizzes. Smythe senior was just in time as 
he made a rush for safety. There was a flash and a 
report like the bursting of an eighty-four-ton gun, 
and then the blackness of darkness, while the vault 
of heaven seemed to be raining fragments of flower- 


Digitized by Google 



88 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


pot, paper, and volcanic dust. It was a mercy no 
lives were lost! Shouts of applause mingled with 
derision and laughter attended this result, and it was 
decided not to risk another attempt at a formal 
opening of the proceedings. 

The prefects announced that the siege of Sebastopol 
might commence. 

Then there was mounting in hot haste, and at all 
quarters sparks sprung into flame ; there were fizzes, 
and fiery sputterings, and manifold bangs. Many of 
the home-made squibs were highly successful, and 
although from a military point of view the siege 
operations were not conducted with much method in 
attack or skill in defence, still the ardour of the com- 
batants was keen, the merriment furious, and the 
laughter loud. The smell of battle was strong, and 
clouds of sulphurous smoke hung round the college 
buildings, and night was made day by reason of the 
multitude and magnitude of explosive combustibles. 
This first part of the evening’s entertainment lasted 
upwards of an hour, and was only concluded when 
ammunition failed. 

Then the prefects sent up half a score of rockets in 
succession, which called forth various expressions of 
admiration. And afterwards Johnson’s opportunity 
arrived. His clients had gathered round him, and he 
asked them to help him bring the things out. 

They all adjourned to Johnson’s study and brought 
out about ten rockets, six Roman candles, two com- 


Digitized by Google 



THE FIFTH OF NOVEMBER. 


89 


binations, and a tourbillon, also one of those fantastic 
specimens of pyrotechny entitled ‘ devil-among-the- 
tailors/ 

* Is that all V asked one of the subscribers. 

‘ All ? Yes ; isn't it enough ? You don't suppose 
you can get these things for nothing, do you ? Come 
on/ 

The rockets were certainly splendid, and took the 
shine out of those provided by the prefects. The set 
pieces did not perform their part with good grace — 
getting stuck at the critical moment, and shooting 
out cataracts of coloured flame at odd corners. The 
tourbillon whirled upwards in gallant style, and the 
diabolical intruder among the makers of tail-coats 
exploded in orthodox fashion, flinging its shower of 
crackers far into the air. 

Johnson concluded his share of the entertainment 
by a fire-balloon, which they managed to inflate with- 
out catastrophe. It rose majestically and sailed away, 
trailing a magnesium light in its wake, which ascended 
in a spiral line, leaving behind a column of dense 
white smoke. 

And then all hands turned to the procession of 
guys and the burning of Rome. The guys were 
carried round the playground in imposing procession, 
to the accompaniment of vocal choruses, shouted 
with more regard to noise than melody. 

Maurice, in the character of Nero, wore knicker- 
bockers without stockings, and a sheet arranged 


Digitized by Google 



90 ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 

around his person in graceful folds. A laurel- wreath 
encircled his head, and he stood by the huge pile 
of faggots which would shortly be a blazing bonfire, 
while the pageant deployed before. He fiddled away 
right imperially, varying the performance by dancing 
an impromptu hornpipe to keep his bare legs warm. 
The guys were posted in position, and their respective 
owners set them alight ; the bonfire was kindled, and 
the fiddling waxed louder as the flames uprose. 

In the midst of these proceedings Johnson came up 
to Ernest, and, touching him on the arm, beckoned 
him away. Then, in a cautious whisper, he said : 

‘ Come on ; I want you just for half a minute/ 

* What's up ?' 

‘Oh, nothing particular. I won't keep you two 
jiffs.' 

Taking Ernest's arm, Johnson hurried him away 
from the assembled host across the playground to a 
small courtyard in the rear of the college buildings. 

‘ What on earth do you want me for ?' asked Ernest, 
who was anxious not to miss any of the fun. 

‘ Oh, I will not keep you half a moment ; just stand 
there and sing out gently if anyone comes along.' 

Ernest was stationed at a comer of this courtyard 
where two passages entered it from the adjacent 
buildings. Johnson stealthily hastened on, and then 
stopped. Within half a minute of his stopping, Ernest 
heard the familiar sound of a rocket gathering strength 
for flight. He turned round and saw the rocket start 


Digitized by Google 



THE FIFTH OF NOVEMBER. 91 

on its career, and the next moment there was a crash 
of broken glass as the fiery monster rushed through 
one of the upper windows which faced the courtyard. 

Johnson just waited to make sure of the result, and 
then calling Ernest to come on, he ran off again to- 
wards the playground. 

* What on earth did you do that for, you young ass ?’ 
said Ernest, as he ran beside him. 

‘Oh, it’s all right — it's only old Raikes* room. I 
wanted to pay him out, that’s all/ 

* Well, there will be a thundering row about it, and, 
as usual, you’ve tried to get me into it. I tell you I’m 
sick of all your tomfoolery. You are the biggest little 
idiot in the school, and 111 have nothing more to do 
with you in future.’ 

So saying, Ernest bestowed an indignant kick upon 
his comrade, and then walked off. 

Johnson was in a furious passion, and called after 
him : 

‘ Who cares for you, you great ass ! You think a 
mighty lot of yourself, but I’ll be even with you. I’ll 
pay you out I’ 

Mr. Raikes was reposing in his arm-chair, with a pipe 
in his mouth and a novel on a book-rest in front of 
him. He was taking it easy after the fatigues of the 
day, and congratulating himself, as he heard the 
distant bangs and cheers, that he was not responsible 
for the results of the evening’s celebration. He felt 
that the wealth of Croesus would not suffice to induce 


Digitized by Google 



92 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


him at that moment to change places with Dr. 
Saunderson. 

Cuthbert Raikes, B. A., of Trinity College, Cambridge, 
had done great and learned things as an under- 
graduate at the university ; and as he sat comfortably 
with slippered feet on the fender, and watched the blue 
smoke curl upwards from his pipe, his thoughts went 
back to many an evening so spent in his dear old 
college rooms, where he had often meditated ambitious 
schemes of future distinction. He passed his hand 
over the crown of his head, and sighed as it reminded 
him that his hair was already beginning to grow scanty 
in that locality. He glanced his eye towards the 
book-shelf, where his beloved mathematical books were 
ranged in ordered line. He felt that his light was 
hidden under a bushel in his present condition, his 
talents wasted, his genius degraded. He had accepted 
the mastership as a stepping-stone to fame. Dr. 
Saunderson had said he wished him to work up the 
senior boys in higher mathematics, and take light 
classical work among the junior classes. And what 
did the higher mathematics comprise? Why, the 
most advanced boy could not pass the Little Go at 
Cambridge — one might as well try to teach pigs trigo- 
nometry. And then, the utter insubordination and 
boorishness of the boys — oh ! it was enough to drive 
him silly. He could not possibly stand another term 
of such degraded drudgery. 

These melancholy ruminations of Mr. Raikes were 


Digitized by Google 



THE FIFTH OF NOVEMBER. 93 

suddenly interrupted by the most fearful and unearthly 
din. Smash went the window into ten thousand 
smithereens; a fiery flying serpent rushed at him, 
shrieking forth fury ; a frightful, hideous roaring and 
hissing and spouting forth of fire and suffocating 
smoke ! 

The master sprang up from his chair and stood in 
sheer amazement, unable to collect his faculties or in 
any way to realize the situation. The demon, pouring 
forth a hurricane of fire, struck against the ceiling and 
shot against the wall. It made a swoop and cannoned 
off the chimneypiece, ‘dealing destruction’s devastating 
doom * to the clock, china ornaments, and photographs. 
It came straight at the unfortunate owner, who barely 
had time to bob ; and, as it was, he got a swinging cut 
from the stick, which had been broken in its mad 
career. 

Then it was a matter of jumping and dodging to 
escape the attacks of the ruthless monster. The 
mathematical books had been hurled from the shelf in 
ruinous confusion, as though to shatter the fond hope 
that mathematical erudition would lead their owner to 
fame. The climax was a tremendous explosion, which 
filled the room with falling stars, blue, red and yellow. 
One caught the hapless gentleman in the face, and 
burnt off a considerable portion of his right whisker. 
The others fell anywhere and everywhere, and burnt 
merrily, setting fire to the carpet and tablecloth. But 
there was a partial lull in the fury of the flaming 


Digitized by Google 



94 ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 

tempest, and, amid the stifling smoke, the victim had 
presence of mind enough to make for a can of water 
which was ready for his bath next morning, and by 
pouring it copiously about the room, he at length 
succeeded in extinguishing the various centres of con- 
flagration. 

Coughing and choking and smarting from his wounds, 
Mr. Raikes flung open the other window, and made 
for the door, which he left open, and walked down the 
passage, hardly knowing what he did or whither he 
should go. With dazed sensations and faltering steps 
he made his way to Dr. Saunderson’s study. 

Covering with his hand the remains of his dis- 
organized whisker, Cuthbert Raikes, Esq., B.A., timidly 
entered the Doctor’s sanctum. Had he been less 
agitated in mind he would have reflected that a 
striped blazer and carpet slippers hardly formed the 
correct costume in which to appear before his chief. 
But he was incapable of any mental effort. 

The Doctor was standing at the window, which 
commanded a view of the playground. He had been 
watching the carnival with much interest and amuse- 
ment, and now the tableau vivant was striking and 
impressive — the whole school assembled round the 
bonfire and illuminated by the lurid blaze. 

The Doctor turned, and raised his eyebrows in 
surprise at the figure before him. 

* What ! Mr. Raikes ! have you come to ask me to 
play a game of racquets at this time of night V 


Digitized by Google 



THE FIFTH OF NOVEMBER. 


95 


Abashed by the remark — racquets being a game 
which Mr. Raikes had never played in his life, and 
conscious of the impropriety of his appearance — the 
unfortunate victim of circumstances stammered out 
an apology, and then explained, as best he could, 
the terrific and perilous adventures through which 
he had just passed. 

The Doctor’s brow darkened as he heard the par- 
ticulars of this most serious breach of discipline. He 
immediately went and examined the scene of the 
incendiarism, and then had the school-bell rung as 
a signal for the bonfire to be extinguished, and in 
due time the boys assembled in chapel, and the fifth 
of November closed. 


Digitized by Google 



CHAPTER VIII. 


THE WITHERING BLAST. 

Next morning, immediately after prayers, Dr. Saunder- 
son sent for his senior prefect, and told him what had 
happened. 

‘ I think, Armstrong, as you prefects made your- 
selves responsible for order, and promised to prevent 
any breach of discipline in the matter of fireworks 
last night, that it would be better for you to investi- 
gate this business. I need hardly impress upon you 
the dastardly and infamous character of the outrage. 
It has been attended with very serious results, and 
they might have been far worse. As it is, considerable 
damage has been done to property; but that is of 
minor importance compared with the defiance of all 
law and order displayed by the offence. At all costs 
the perpetrator of the outrage must be discovered and 
brought to justice. It is for you to discover him ; the 
punishment must remain in my hands alone/ 

‘ Yes, sir, I think you may leave it to us to find 
the offender ; but should there be any difficulty, I am 
sure we may calculate upon your support, in case it 


Digitized by Google 



THE WITHERING BLAST . 


97 


may be necessary to stop any privilege, such as leave- 
out on Saturday.* 

‘Of course. You have my sanction to take what- 
ever measures you think right to assist your investiga- 
tion. I have complete confidence in my prefects ; 
they must always feel that I support them to the full 
extent of my authority.* 

‘ Thank you, sir. I hope we shall find the fellow 
without troubling you to interfere, and you may be 
certain that our conduct in the matter will be loyal 
to yourself and the traditions of the college.* 

Armstrong bowed to the Doctor and withdrew. 
He used to say that when ‘ argufying * with the head- 
master he was always startled by his own eloquence, 
and I think on this occasion he had good ground for 
so saying. 

Armstrong felt pretty sure in his own mind that 
either Fairfield or Johnson was the culprit. Probably 
Johnson, for he hardly thought Fairfield would be 
guilty of such a gross outrage; but possibly they 
might have hatched the plot and executed it together. 
Everyone had heard of the thrashing they both 
received from the Doctor for impertinence to Mr. 
Raikes, and it seemed not unlikely that this was the 
retaliation they had thought fit to exact. 

The senior prefect went on his way to the common- 
room, where he found some of his brethren assembled 
in conclave. They questioned him at once. 

* Well, what did the Doctor want ? Any row up ¥ 

7 


Digitized by Google 



98 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


‘Rather; I should just think there was! Some 
fellow had the cheek to fire a rocket into Raikes* 
room last night through the window. Did you ever 
hear of such audacious conduct? It’s too good a 
joke! I could hardly keep my countenance while 
the Doctor indulged his lucubrations upon the 
heinousness of the crime. With all due respect to 
those in authority, I think Master Raikes is about 
as big an ass as ever essayed to educate the British 
youth ; yet that is hardly a sufficient reason why he 
should be sent up to heaven on the wings of a sky- 
rocket. There’s moderation in all things ; auream 
mediocritatem , you know/ 

Various expressions of amazement, not to say 
amusement, greeted the ambassador’s intelligence, 
and Armstrong went on to say : 

‘ Probably that wretched young imp Johnson is at 
the bottom of it, and at the top as well, though 
possibly Fairfield might have had a finger in the pie. 
It’s all very well to laugh at the ludicrous side of the 
matter, but upon my honour I don’t know what they 
don't deserve. Of course we shall never again be 
allowed to have fireworks on the fifth of November, 
that is very certain. Whoever did it ought to be 
kicked out of the place ; there cannot be more than 
one side to that question. The Doctor says we must 
discover the scoundrel, and he will punish him. I 
only hope he will thrash him first, and expel him 
afterwards.’ 


Digitized by Google 



THE WITHERING BLAST. 99 

‘ Yes, it's a howling shame/ said another. * Who 
could be such an idiot ? Johnson would hardly have 
the cheek. Are you sure it wasn’t a squib, or even a 
cracker ? It couldn’t really have been a rocket !* 

‘ I don’t suppose there was much of it left to give 
evidence. Yet, likely enough, old Raikes doesn’t know 
the difference. The Doctor must have been sure, 
though.’ 

‘Well/ added a third, ‘it was a project worthy of 
Guido himself; and if it was fated to come off, I 
only wish I could have been a spectator. It would 
have been grand to see Raikes capering about !’ 

They discussed the matter for awhile, and then 
Armstrong said he would go and talk like a father to 
the two fellows on whom his suspicion rested. 

He found Ernest in his study, preparing the lesson 
for next school. Ernest stood up in presence of the 
prefect, who said : 

‘Fairfield, had you anything to do with sending 
that rocket into Mr. Raikes’ room last night V 
Ernest looked him straight in the face, and said : 

‘ No, I had nothing whatever to do with it.’ 

‘ Well, I am glad of that — and I suppose I must not 
ask you if you know who did it. But I think it fair to 
ask whether you had anything to do with suggesting 
the transaction ?’ 

‘ No ; I knew nothing at all about it before it hap- 
pened. I heard it go off, and saw it smash the 
window, and I told the fellow what I thought about it 

7—2 


Digitized by Google 



IOO 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


I don’t want to sneak, but I should say every other 
chap in the school would consider it a snobbish 
trick.’ 

Armstrong made no further remark, but went off in 
quest of Johnson. He found him loafing about the 
playground, examining the ashes of the bonfire and 
picking up stray fragments of dismembered guys and 
exploded fireworks. He had a rocket-stick, with which 
he stirred up the skeletons and dry bones of these 
interesting relics. 

4 Come here !’ shouted Armstrong. 

Johnson raised his pale and vacant face and came 
with shambling steps. 

‘Now, look here, young Johnson. I have got to 
ask you a point-blank question, and just give me a 
point-blank answer. Did you send that rocket into 
Mr. Raikes’ window last night ?’ 

‘ No, I’m sure I didn’t. I wouldn’t dare do such a 
thing ; but I know who did. It was Fairfield.’ 

‘ How do you know ?’ 

‘ I saw him do it. He asked me for one of my 
rockets, and I went to see what he was going to do 
with it, and he shot it into the window/ 

‘ Well, you’re a jolly young sneak, at any rate ; and 
I tell you plainly I believe you are telling a thunder- 
ing lie.’ 

* No, I promise you I am not. You ask Fairfield. 
He will not dare deny it.’ 

. Armstrong strode away with his hands in his 


Digitized by Google 



THE WITHERING BLAST. 


IOI 


pockets, wishing that the Inquisition had not been 
abolished. He would like to have known what further 
confessions the thumb-screw might have extorted 
from Johnson. He did not exactly see how to dis- 
cover the culprit and prove his guilt. One or other of 
the pair was the person ‘ wanted ’ — possibly both were 
implicated in the conspiracy. Both had denied it ; 
one had incriminated the other. Armstrong went 
back to Fairfield’s study. 

‘I say, Fairfield, I have asked Johnson if he did it, 
and he says no ; and he also adds that you were the 
fellow who did it.’ 

‘ Does he, the lying young scoundrel ?’ and Ernest 
turned red and white with excitement. 

‘ Well, I don’t believe Johnson for a moment ; but 
one thing is certain : that I must find out who did it, 
or leave-out on Saturday will be stopped. It is 
obvious that it rests with you and Johnson to clear 
up the mystery, and the sooner you do it, the better — 
that’s all/ 

Ernest stood confronting the senior prefect, and said 
as calmly as he could that he had never told a lie in 
his life ; and vowed inwardly that he would settle it 
with Johnson the next time he saw him. And 
when Armstrong had gone, Ernest went arid found 
Johnson. 

* Well, you are a young blackguard, and no mis* 
take ! What do you mean by telling Armstrong that 
I sent that rocket into Mr. Raikes’ window V 


Digitized by Google 



102 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


‘ Oh, don’t get excited about nothing. It does no 
matter. It’s all right ; you need not kick up a row 
about a trifle.’ 

‘ Kick up a row about a trifle ? I like that ! They 
are going to stop leave-out on Saturday if they 
don’t find out — and you dared to say I did it! I’ve 
a mind to drag you by the collar into the prefects’ 
room !’ 

‘ That’s a good idea ! I dare say they would believe 
you. I don’t mind telling a lie now and then, I tell 
you ; but I’ve never been fool enough to be found out. 
It’s no good your saying I did it. I will contradict 
every word you say, and they will believe me just as 
soon as they would believe you. I said I would pay 
you out, old chap, and I will too.’ 

Ernest was in a towering rage, and was utterly 
aghast at such infamous meanness. To think that 
such a boy had once been his friend ! 

Meantime Armstrong and another prefect came 
across the playground towards them. 

‘Look here, you two, we have got to settle this 
point pretty promptly. Surely you are wise enough 
to know that, if leave-out on Saturday is stopped, you 
will have to run the gauntlet and be half murdered by 
the whole school. You are not such fools as to do 
that, I should hope. Fairfield, what have you got to 
say?’ 

‘Nothing more than I’ve said already. Johnson 
told a thundering lie when he said I did it.’ 


Digitized by Google 



THE WITHERING BLAST 


103 


‘ No, I didn't, really. You know you asked me for 
the last rocket, and said you would pay out old Raikes. 
You know you did/ 

Ernest ground his teeth with smothered fury. The 
prefects looked at him with a suspicion of doubt. He 
could not stand that, and with a sudden outburst of 
rage he swung round his right hand, and, catching 
Johnson on the side of his face, he sent him flying to 
the ground. 

‘ Here, gently/ said Armstrong. ‘ Force is no 
argument/ 

And he picked up Johnson, who sobbed and choked 
and could hardly stand. 

‘ I couldn't help it,' said Ernest. ‘ I was obliged to 
stop him telling those foul lies against me, and if he 
speaks another word I'll do it again !' 

‘ Well,' answered Armstrong, ‘ I shall report to the 
Doctor that the only fellows who know anything about 
the rocket are you two, and he must settle it as he 
thinks right.' 

The prefects marched off, and Armstrong at once 
went and reported the result of his inquiry at head- 
quarters. 

That afternoon in school Dr. Saunderson made an 
oration. He briefly related what had taken place, 
and called upon the two boys who alone seemed to be 
concerned in it to stand up. He then asked them 
individually what they had to say. Ernest, who dis- 
dained setting himself to accuse Johnson, simply 


Digitized by Google 



104 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


denied having had anything to do with it. Johnson 
declared, with brazen assurance, that Ernest asked him 
for the last remaining rocket, and shot it through Mr. 
Raikes’ window. 

Dr. Saunderson looked puzzled, and bent his piercing 
gaze first on one and then on the other, ,as though he 
would penetrate the thoughts hidden in their hearts. 
He could not believe that Ernest would tell an untruth. 
There was such an air of straightforward manliness 
about the boy. 

The Doctor said to him : 

‘Fairfield, you hear what Johnson says — have you 
any reply to make V 

‘ I never told a lie in my life, sir. I don’t mind 
being punished if I deserve it, but it’s awful to think 
you should doubt my word. I declare to you, sir, 
before all the school, that I knew nothing about the 
rocket until it went off — I had nothing whatever to do 
with it, and I do beseech you to believe me, sir.’ 

Ernest spoke in an audible, unfaltering voice. It 
was as clear as daylight to everyone that he was 
speaking the truth, and a murmur of approbation 
rustled through the room, and then a suppressed cry 
of 4 Johnson ! Johnson !’ was whispered. 

Johnson, who wore his usual pale, hang-dog expres- 
sion, never winced, and looked about him with an 
insolent air. He was the very personification of mean- 
ness and deceit. 

4 Well/ said the Doctor, 4 1 cannot refuse to believe 


Digitized by Google 



THE WITHERING BLAST 


105 


you, Fairfield; nor until this moment have I ever had 
reason to doubt your word, Johnson. You have been 
in many scrapes ; but, so far as I know, want of truth- 
fulness has never been brought as an accusation against 
you. Yet clearly one or other of you two is guilty of 
that* infamous outrage now rendered doubly abomin- 
able by falsehood. I am placed in a very difficult 
position. I cannot expel you both ’ — the Doctor 
looked hard at the two boys as he said this. Ernest 
perceptibly shuddered, while Johnson remained un- 
moved — ‘ because it might be an act of grave injustice 
to one of you. Neither can I pass the matter over, 
seeing that it is the grossest act of reckless audacity 
that ever came under my experience. If you are 
really innocent, Fairfield, you are reaping the con- 
sequences of being commonly in a scrape with John- 
son. If you are the real culprit, Johnson, I can only 
say that you must be the most contemptible and un- 
principled boy that ever came under my notice. It is 
a most distressing and difficult case to deal with. I 
feel absolutely at a loss how to act. For the present 
I must refrain from passing sentence. Grave suspicion 
must rest upon you both until the matter is made 
clear. Go to your respective work, all classes/ 

The mystery was talked over by the boys, and no 
doubt the general opinion was that Johnson had done 
the deed. But he persisted in maintaining that it 
was Ernest. That contemptible wretch had hardened 
himself into the most determined obstinacy of con- 


Digitized by Google 



io6 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


tinued lying. Ernest had such a loathing disgust for 
him that he would not demean himself by touching 
him. To the prefects Ernest said nothing, but several 
times to his more immediate friends, when they asked 
him in quiet confidence if it was really Johnson, he said: 

‘ Of course it was — the miserable, cowardly cad ! 
Don't mention his name.' 

This admission was secretly reported to the prefects, 
and for some time the whole bias of public opinion 
was set against Johnson. Yet, inasmuch as no amount 
of persecution could make him abate one jot in his 
assertion that it was Ernest — that the only part he 
played was to supply the rocket, not knowing the pur- 
pose — a reactionary tide set in, and no small portion 
of the community again veered round, and thought 
that after all Ernest might, at any rate, have been 
equally guilty. And so the general verdict seemed to 
be that there was not much to choose between them. 
These ebbings and flowings in the tide of popular 
feeling were full of the most distressing anguish to 
Ernest. His life was rendered miserable, and his proud 
spirit crushed, by seeing his word thus doubted and his 
honour trampled in the dust. 

The mystery seemed never destined, to be solved. 
Dr. Saunderson talked repeatedly to the masters and 
prefects about it ; the weeks of the term wore on, and 
he had well-nigh come to the conclusion that both the 
boys should leave the school at the end of term. 
This seemed to him the only way of settling the ques- 


Digitized by Google 



THE WITHERING BLAST 


107 


tion. Yet what if he should be guilty of an act of 
injustice ? What if he should be blighting the prospects 
of an innocent boy for life ? It was a weighty respon- 
sibility, and one which few head-masters would blame 
him for shuddering to incur. 

Meanwhile another investigation was brought to 
bear upon the case. Several of the boys, who had sub- 
scribed for the fireworks put their heads together, and 
made their calculations, and estimated that out of the 
£4 18s. 6d. subscribed they could account only for 
£2 15s. at the outside expended in fireworks. They 
remembered that it was Ernest who had asked for 
their subscriptions, and broad hints were thrown out 
accusing him of having appropriated the greater part 
of the funds. Before the matter came to the ears of 
the prefects, Johnson surreptitiously went to them and 
volunteered a statement. He said that some of the 
fellows were saying that they had not got the full value 
of their money in fireworks : 

‘ Please, I don’t know anything about it. Fairfield 
collected the money, and ordered the fireworks, and 
paid the bill ; and he's got it, I suppose, unless he 
has torn it up. The box was directed to me, but 
the bill was sent to him, and it was all done in his 
name.' 

In the course of the same day a deputation of the 
dissatisfied subscribers also proceeded to the prefects’ 
common-room. They had drawn up a paper stating 
their estimated cost of the articles provided as com- 


Digitized by Google 



lo8 ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 

pared with the money subscribed ; and they laid this 
paper before the august council of the Areopagus, 
and requested that it might receive due consideration. 
They met with a polite reception, and left with an 
assurance that the question should receive prefectorial 
attention, 

Maurice Elton, who had never swerved from his con- 
fidence in Ernest during all the vicissitudes of this dis- 
agreeable business, was asked by Armstrong to get the 
bill, as a preliminary starting-point for the investi- 
gation. He waylaid Ernest as they came out of chapel 
that evening, and taking him affectionately by the 
arm, said : 

‘ Ernest, would you mind letting me have the bill 
of those fireworks ? I don’t like referring to them, 
because I know you have been awfully worried about 
the affair, and must hate all allusion to it; but the 
prefects want to see it.’ 

‘ Oh yes, certainly ; I’ve got it. Of course you can 
see it, if you don’t mind coming to my study ; or I 
can bring it to yours, if you like.’ 

‘ Come along to yours.’ 

The two boys went into that small apartment, and 
sat down, one at each end of the table. And while 
Ernest was rummaging various papers in the drawer 
at his end of the table, Maurice said : 

‘ Ernest, I am most awfully sorry about this horrid 
business. I know well enough that you had nothing 
to do with it, but it is so disgusting that you should 


Digitized by Google 



THE WITHERING BLAST 


109 


have been brought under suspicion by the black- 
guardly conduct of that young scoundrel Johnson/ 

‘Well, it cannot be helped now. I was a bom fool 
to make friends with him. It is too late to wish I 
had taken your advice, Maurice ; but I will never 
have anything more to do with him if I can help it, 
and perhaps in time the fellows will know that I am 
innocent. If it wasn’t for you, Maurice, I should run 
away.* 

The tears glistened in Ernest’s eyes as he said this. 
And then he put his hand in his waistcoat-pocket 
and took out the disc of pine-bark. 

‘ Do you remember this ? It is an awful comfort 
to me, Maurice ; you promised to stick to me through 
thick and thin, and always be my friend/ 

Maurice stood up and looked Ernest steadily in 
the face, and grasping his hand with a pressure of the 
warmest sincerity, said : 

‘ I am sure it will all come right in time, Ernest. 
The holidays will soon be here, and next term the 
fellows will have forgotten all about it, and you will 
make a fresh start/ 

‘Oh, I don’t know. I suppose they will always 
look on me with suspicion, but I must learn to put 
up with it somehow/ 

Ernest had taken the envelope out of the drawer, 
and saw that it was sealed and addressed to him. He 
had not looked at it before. 

‘ That’s the bill — at least, I suppose it is. Johnson 


Digitized by Google 



no 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


gave me the envelope and said it was. Oh, Maurice, 
how can I ever get out of this horrible suspicion ? 
How can I go on any longer, feeling that the Doctor 
doubts me, Armstrong doubts me, and half the fellows, 
at least, believe I did it ; and most of the other half 
think I have told lies and am as much to blame as 
Johnson ? You don’t know what misery it is to feel 
like a convicted felon. I can’t go into the class-room 
without hearing some remarks. I can’t appear any- 
where without being sneered at. No one likes to be 
seen with me. It’s all very well to say I need not 
mind if I am innocent, but it is simply unbearable.’ 

And Ernest bent over the table and buried his head 
in his hands, and for the first time in his life, since 
he left the nursery, he cried and sobbed in the agony 
of his distress. 

Then he jumped up, and dashed away the tears 
with the sleeves of his jacket, disgusted at his own 
weakness. 

€ Fancy my blubbering like a baby! but I can't 
stand it. And Armstrong told me the other day 
that the Doctor said I must not play in the match 
against Hayward’s Academy unless my innocence was 
proved ! Oh, Maurice, the disgrace is so horrible ! 
How can I possibly endure it V 

‘I am frightfully sorry for you, Ernest. All I can 
do is to stick to you, and stick up for you, through 
thick and thin. But you must not brood over it and 
bother yourself so much about it. I suppose this is 


Digitized by Google 



THE WITHERING BLAST 


in 


the first time in your life that things ever went wrong. 
Now’s the time for philosophical meditation on the 
fickleness of fortune. I am not laughing. (Equam 
memento rebus in arduis Servare mentem. Cheer 
up, old chap. I am more sorry for you than I can 
say. But it will all come right. Truth is strong, 
and will prevail. Have you heard from home lately, 
Ernest V 

‘ Yes, I had a letter from mother this morning. I 
have not said a word to her about this bothering 
business ; it would only worry her, and do no good. 
She seems anxious about father; he had a sort of 
fainting fit the other day ; but she says he is all right 
again, so I hope there is not anything wrong. She 
sent for Paddy O’Grady. What a joke he was over 
tennis ! You can see the letter if you like. There 
are lots of kind messages to you.’ 

‘ Thanks, I should like to read it awfully. I hope 
there’s not much the matter with the gallant Colonel. 
But, I say, it’s late. I shall never have done my work 
for to-morrow. Good-night, Ernest, and cheer up. 
Did you notice that verse in the lesson this evening, 
“ If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is 
small”?’ 

‘ Yes, I did notice it, and I will try and remember 
it. Good-night, Maurice.’ 


Digitized by Google 



CHAPTER IX. 


MERCY VERSUS JUSTICE. 

‘Well, that is a queer document !* said one of the pre- 
fects, as the bill was opened and displayed to view 
before the assembled council of the Areopagus in the 
common-room. 

‘ What a muddle they seem to have made of it !’ 

‘ It’s made out in Fairfield’s name,’ said another. 

‘ And it is added up wrong/ said a third. 

‘ Any fool can see that the prices have been altered/ 
said a fourth. 

It was obvious at a glance that the document had 
been seriously tampered with ; all the insertions were 
altered, and the prices were evidently at least doubled, 
and probably in some cases trebled. 

‘ Well, that is a strange way of doing business !’ 
said Armstrong. ‘ There is nothing for it but to take 
this bill to the Doctor, and the sooner somebody is 
kicked out of the place the better. Lying and forgery 
are hard pills to swallow/ 

Maurice was dismayed at the disclosure. Things 
certainly looked as black as they could against Ernest. 
Was it possible that after all he was implicated in the 


Digitized by Google 



MERCY VERSUS JUSTICE . 113 

whole scrape ? Just the faintest shadow of doubt 
flitted for a moment over Maurice’s mind, to be in- 
dignantly banished on the instant. His soul revolted 
against the insinuation. 

‘Fairfield had nothing to do with that bill; it is 
just another of Johnson’s scoundrelly proceedings/ 

‘ Well, I hope he had not, but the circumstantial 
evidence seems pretty strong. Anyhow, I suppose I 
must take the bill to the Doctor. Eh, you fellows, 
what do you think ?’ 

There was a general expression of assent, to which, 
of course, Maurice could not demur. 

‘ The subscribers all say that Fairfield dunned them 
for the money,’ said Lucas. 

‘Of course,’ said Maurice, ‘Johnson saw to that; 
he is deep enough to shift all responsibility. I should 
hope you could see that. I know Fairfield well 
enough, and I would stake my life that he is as inno- 
cent as any of us in the matter.’ 

‘Well, all right; you had better tell the Doctor 
what you think, for I expect it will go hard with your 
friend after this.’ 

Dr. Saunderson gave the most careful attention to 
Armstrong’s statements, and pondered long upon the 
new disclosures. The result was that he arrived at 
the conclusion that both the boys should leave the 
college at the end of the term. The matter seemed 
to increase in ugliness, putting forth fresh feelers like 
some foul polypus to consume the discipline and 

8 


Digitized by Google 



ERNEST FAIRFIELD. ' 


114 

morality of the school. Even at the risk of possible 
injustice he felt it his duty to cut off such a blighting 
contagion. 

That evening he sent for Armstrong during pre- 
paration, and told him his resolve. 

‘ You may inform your brother prefects, but they 
must be bound over to keep it a secret among them- 
selves, in case anything may arise to clear up the 
mystery. If any of them have anything they might 
like to say to me upon the subject I shall be glad to 
hear it/ 

Armstrong withdrew, and the Doctor’s verdict was 
duly reported. One of the other prefects had something 
to say to him on the subject. That same evening, 
after chapel, Maurice Elton went to the Doctor’s 
study, and in a deferential manner asked the favour 
of speaking to him. 

‘Sir, may I say a few words to you about the 
matter which has lately caused so much excitement 
in the school V 

‘ Certainly, my boy ; say exactly what you think/ 

‘Well, sir, I am perfectly convinced that Fairfield 
is innocent on all the charges which look so black 
against him. I spent a fortnight of last holidays at 
his home, and I have known him for nine years; I 
was at the last school with him. His mother is one 
of the best and kindest ladies in the world, and she is 
so fond of Ernest. She knows his character well 
enough, and is fully aware of his weak points, but 


Digitized by Google 



Mercy versus justice . 115 

she told me often that he is the very soul of honour 
and truth. Oh, sir, I do implore you to take this 
statement into consideration. It would simply break 
her heart if Ernest were expelled. All her hopes are 
centred upon him. And I am absolutely certain that 
he is innocent. Johnson has been telling one lie 
after another to shift the blame on to Fairfield. It 
was J ohnson who ordered the fireworks and paid the 
bill, and had it made out in Fairfield’s name. It was 
Johnson who altered the bill and then sealed up the 
envelope ; tradesmen do not seal up their bills. Ernest 
handed it to me just as he received it, and he assured 
me he had never seen the bill at all. I know you 
would shrink from an act of terrible injustice, sir, 
and I will answer for it that if you expel Fairfield it 
will be terribly unjust.’ 

Dr. Saunderson sat silent for some moments, and 
then said : 

‘ I thank you, Elton, for your plain speaking, and I 
would like to believe all you say as far as it concerns 
Fairfield. Far be it from me to act hastily in such a 
matter. I will weigh every word of what you have 
told me. It is Fairfield’s first term. I regret ex- 
ceedingly that he has not kept clear of such grave 
suspicion. I have already punished him for his be- 
haviour towards Mr. Raikes ; he has more than once 
been reported for thoughtless and foolish breaches of 
discipline. He has not impressed me in his general 
conduct as favourably as I could have wished. But 

8—2 


Digitized by Google 



ii6 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


all that is trivial in comparison with this most 
serious suspicion. Johnson, on the other hand, has 
been here several terms. He appears to me to be a 
weak-minded fellow, but there is nothing against him 
in my penal books which casts a slur upon his truth- 
fulness. Clearly, one or other of the two boys is 
guilty of the grossest misconduct, rendered more in- 
famous by lying and deceit. Such a stain upon our 
honour cannot be wiped out by any ordinary punish- 
ment. It seems impossible to decide between the 
two boys. And the interests of the school are of 
paramount importance. Justice towards the com- 
munity demands vindication for a very grievous 
course of systematic offence. How can I possibly 
pass it over ? If I excuse Ernest, I must excuse 
Johnson; I cannot hold the latter entirely and solely 
guilty upon such slender evidence. He has posi- 
tively asserted his own innocence and the others 
guilt. Either I must extend free pardon, and pass 
the matter over entirely, and allow both the boys to 
remain, or I must remove them both. I see no 
middle course. And to my mind there is no doubt 
which course ought to be adopted. In the interests 
of our good name, and discipline, and example, both 
the boys ought unquestionably to go. It will not be 
public expulsion. I shall merely write to their 
parents and state the grounds of my action, and they 
will certainly see that I had no other alternative/ 
Then Maurice answered ; 


Digitized by Google 



MERCY VERSUS JUSTICE . 


ii 7 

‘Well, sir, if you will pardon my presumption in 
venturing to argue with you, I would say that in so 
doing you will simply blight the chances of one of the 
boys for life, without any just cause. Fairfield is as 
innocent as I am, or as Armstrong, or any of the 
prefects. I would sooner believe that I had done it 
myself than that he did it. For the sake of justice, 
and to prevent unspeakable sorrow being brought upon 
a happy home without a shadow of real cause, I do 
beseech you, sir, to reconsider your judgment.* 

‘ I will think over what you have said, Elton, and 
your words shall have all possible weight. I will again 
discuss the matter with the masters. I thank you for 
your manly, straightforward counsel. Now I must be 
alone.* 

Maurice bowed to the Doctor, and left the room. 

To make a long and tedious matter as short as 
possible, it may be stated that nothing more was 
authoritatively said about the question until the last 
week of term. 

One afternoon, when the examination-papers, had 
been shown up, before the boys left the big school- 
room, Dr. Saunderson harangued them on the subject. 
He said that he had given it the deepest attention, and 
considered it in all its bearings, and had finally decided 
to allow both Fairfield and Johnson to return to the 
college next term. He felt deeply that in extending 
mercy he might be transgressing justice. ‘But/ he 
added, ‘ the very foundation of our hopes for this life 


Digitized by Google 



1 1 8 ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 

and the next is, that the Great Father of us all may 
temper Divine justice with mercy towards each one of 
us. And so, while the voice of our fair name calls 
loudly to banish from our midst those who, whether 
directly or indirectly, have brought discredit upon us, 
yet, in fear of acting unjustly towards one of them, I 
have decided to turn a deaf ear towards that voice. And 
I would most solemnly impress upon the two boys that 
their future conduct should bear witness to the wisdom 
of my decision, by the resolute determination never 
again to incur such a charge. I cannot shut my eyes 
against the fact that it is due to most glaring and 
systematic falsehoods that one or other of these boys 
is allowed to remain at the college ; and while my soul 
revolts against the degrading nature of such an admis- 
sion, yet my hands are tied by uncertainty, and I 
cannot act otherwise. To all the boys whose sense of 
honour and truth is noble I appeal for sympathy and 
forbearance. I am placed in a dilemma which occasions 
to us all the most profound humiliation, but my final 
verdict has been given. Fairfield and Johnson, you 
will have an opportunity of regaining our confidence, 
which has been rudely shaken ; and may this solemn 
warning make due impression upon you both !’ 

Dr. Saunderson sat down and covered his face with 
both his hands. He was evidently much agitated, and I 
am sure most of us felt that he had done the only thing 
he could do under the circumstances. Fairfield had 
stood in his place during the Doctor’s speech, pale, but 


Digitized by Google 



MERCY VERSUS JUSTICE. 119 

looking straight at the speaker. Johnson, too, had 
stood with his eyes turned in the same direction. 
Maurice Elton was the only member of St. Andrew’s 
who really knew Ernest Fairfield, and probably he alone 
at that moment was absolutely confident of Ernest’s 
innocence. He was faithful to his friend, and was not 
afraid to show it. And as we filed out of the school- 
room that evening, and the audibly whispered com- 
ments gradually swelled into loud talk as the boys 
neared the door, Maurice went up to Fairfield and took 
his arm, and walked with him to his study. 

There was an attempt to get up a sort of demon- 
stration, but it was somewhat feeble. A few voices 
called out, ‘Hurrah for Fairfield!’ but there was not 
much response. And when someone volunteered the 
same for Johnson there was unmistakable hissing 
mingled with mild hurrahs. No one hissed Fairfield, 
though few applauded him. The fact was, we were 
heartily sick of the whole affair. It had had its day, 
and, like a threadbare garment, we thought it high 
time that it should be laid aside. 

There remained about ten days of the term. Two 
of the three important football matches were over. 
Ernest had not played in either of them, his place 
being supplied by Norman, an old hand among the 
burly members of the Shell. Ernest had watched these 
matches with the keenest interest, and made himself 
hoarse with cheering. He was comforted after the 
second game, which St. Andrew’s lost, by Armstrong 


Digitized by Google 



120 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


saying to his side that he wished he could have had 
Fairfield — it would have made a lot of difference. Not 
very complimentary to the substitute, but pleasant to 
the ears of Ernest. The third match still remained, 
and now that the burning question of the past weeks 
was for the time assuaged, Dr. Saunderson signified to 
Armstrong his wish that Ernest should be restored to 
his place in the Fifteen, and play in the last match. 
The captain felt some scruples in asking him, but 
Ernest was not the sort of fellow to show any false 
pride, and was delighted to play. And he played in 
grand form, making two splendid runs in the course of 
the game, finishing up the second by dropping a goal 
thirty yards from the posts. The game was against 
the town club, and St. Andrew’s won by three goals to 
two. Armstrong was right when he said Ernest made 
all the difference. 

His prowess in that football match went a long way 
towards uplifting him in the estimation of the school 
and restoring him to the popularity which he had 
lost. But still a certain section eyed him askance, 
and gathered up their skirts in his presence to avoid 
contamination — even as the men of Belial behaved 
towards King Saul on his exaltation. 

The sense of relief produced in Ernest’s mind by the 
Doctor’s verdict was grateful, and now that he was 
able to think of something else besides the all-absorb- 
ing sense of humiliation, his thoughts naturally turned 
towards home and the happy prospect of holidays. 


Digitized by Google 



MERCY VERSUS JUSTICE . 12 1 

His mother's letter had made him anxious about his 
father, and he wrote to Dr. O’ Grady to ask fuller par- 
ticulars. He received the following answer : 

‘ Dear Beauchamp, 

‘ In reply to your letter, I must tell you that the 
gallant Colonel is not so young as he was thirty years 
ago. The wheels of life will not run so easily at 
seventy-five as they did at forty-five. What says your 
friend Cicero about the fruit, when it is mellow, 
dropping off at a slight touch ? Ah, my boy, your 
dear father has always had a stout heart, and it has 
borne him bravely beyond the span of threescore 
years and ten ; and now that heart whispers in my ear 
that it is getting weary of its long service. I cannot 
bear to make you anxious, my dear boy — nor that 
sweet lady, your esteemed mother; but your father 
needs care. He must not be unnecessarily excited; 
he .must avoid all exertion, and as far as possible 
enjoy the calm repose that should close the evening 
of life's long day. And should he be summoned to 
headquarters without much notice, it will be well 
with him. Who can doubt it ? Vita brevis ! I hope 
I have not spoken too bluntly. My best esteem will 
always be towards you. Farewell, Fairfield ! Adieu, 
Beauchamp ! Vale , Fulcher Ager ! 

‘ From your sincere friend, 

‘ Paddy O'G.' 


Digitized by Google 



CHAPTER X. 


CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS. 

During the first few days at home Ernest had ample 
opportunity for thinking over the events of the past 
term. His review was certainly not very encouraging. 
He felt crushed by the memory of the terrible sus- 
picion cast upon him. A dark cloud, with no pros- 
pect of a break, seemed to rest on the horizon in front 
and behind. He was angry with himself for having 
allowed his intimacy with Johnson to spring up 
against Maurice’s advice. He blamed himself bitterly 
for letting that intimacy get him into foolish scrapes. 
But every other consideration was dwarfed by the 
remembrance of that barefaced lying which caused 
his own word to be doubted, and brought him into 
such terrible disgrace. He was dreading the arrival 
of his report. What would Dr. Saunderson say about 
him ? How miserable it would make his father and 
mother ! 

Mrs. Fairfield noticed the careworn expression on 
Ernest’s face. His happy laugh had not once been 
heard, though he had been home three days. He 
seemed listless, and showed little interest in anything. 


Digitized by Google 



CHRISTMAS HOLIDA YS. 123 

His mother was greatly distressed, and asked him the 
reason. 

‘Well, mother, I did not get on very well last term, 
and, to finish up, one of the fellows told a lot of lies 
about me, and tried to make out that I had told them, 
and the Doctor half believed him. I know I shall 
have a bad report, and that will make you and 
father unhappy. It was awful to have those lies told 
about me !’ 

Mrs. Fairfield entered fully into Ernest’s troubles. 
With a mother’s sympathy and tact, she drew from 
him a minute history of all the particulars. She 
laughed over the adventure with the rocket. Ernest 
opened his eyes wide with astonishment at the idea of 
anyone seeing a corner by which a laugh could creep 
in. But she cried the next moment on hearing how 
Johnson had declared that Ernest shot the rocket 
through the window. 

‘Never mind, dear/ said Mrs. Fairfield; ‘you must 
not brood over it. I am sure Maurice never doubted 
you.’ 

‘No, mother, he was awfully good about it. He 
stuck to me through thick and thin. But, then, lots 
of the fellows think I told a lie, and the masters don’t 
believe me ; and altogether it is such a horrid state of 
things, that I wish you would not let me go back. I 
shall never be able to live it down.’ 

‘ Shall we ask Maurice to come and stay here a few 
days ?’ 


Digitized by Google 



124 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


‘ No, mother, I don’t think you had better ; it could 
do no good. I want to forget all about St. Andrew’s 
for a little while, if possible ; and Maurice would only 
rake it all up again.* 

Christmas Day passed, with its message of peace 
and goodwill. To Ernest it seemed a bitter irony to 
speak of goodwill, while a vision of J ohnson haunted 
his mind sleeping and waking ; nor would the 
prospect of his report admit of his enjoying peace. 
Two days afterwards, among the letters handed to the 
Colonel at the breakfast-table was a long blue enve- 
lope, on which Ernest had little difficulty in recog- 
nising Dr. Saunderson’s handwriting. 

In the course of the morning Colonel Fairfield called 
Ernest into his study, to hold what Ernest afterwards 
described as a ‘ court-martial.’ 

‘Your report came this morning, Ernest, and I 
should like to have a little talk with you about it.’ 

The Colonel sat back in his arm-chair, crossing his 
legs and adjusting his spectacles, and then he unfolded 
the report. 

* Dr. Saunderson does not appear satisfied with you, 
Ernest. He says : “ In all his work there seems to be 
a want of resolute endeavour. He is apt to be 
troublesome to the masters, and there has been much 
in his general conduct that was unsatisfactory.” That 
is not very flattering, Ernest. I am disappointed. 
Then, besides this, Dr. Saunderson has written me a 
letter, which I had better read to you. He says : “I 


Digitized by Google 



CHRISTMAS HOLIDA YS. 125 

feel bound to add that your son was implicated in a 
matter which caused me serious distress — to what 
extent he may have been concerned I cannot say. I 
would not say that I doubt his word, but one of his 
friends accused him of committing a very grave 
offence, and other charges of suspicion in connection 
with it were brought against him. He will explain 
the circumstances to which I allude, and I feel sure 
you will give him the best counsel upon the subject.” ' 
Colonel Fairfield put down the letter and took off 
his spectacles. 

* Your mother has told me all about the matter to 
which the Doctor alludes. I know you well enough to 
be perfectly sure that you did not tell an untruth, 
Ernest. But I would not for a moment say that you 
are proof against getting into scrapes. I know what 
boys are — and when they get together it may happen 
that one will lead another on to do foolish things — 
possibly unprincipled things. But, my dear boy, I 
know that if in a thoughtless mood you were led to do 
anything of which you were afterwards ashamed, you 
would never demean yourself to tell an untruth about 
it. Am I not right in so saying V 

‘Yes, father, you are right. I never consciously 
told a lie, and having to bear the suspicion of it is too 
much. I cannot stand it. Don't let me go back to 
St. Andrew's !' 

Ernest's voice faltered, and he dashed the tears from 
his eyes, as he went on to say : 


Digitized by Google 



126 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


‘That boy Johnson told lie upon lie against me. 
There was no one near when he shot the rocket into 
Mr. Raikes* window. I had nothing to do with it. He 
asked me to come with him, but I had no notion what 
he was going to do till I heard the whizzing of the 
rocket and saw it smash into the window. Then after- 
wards he declared I did it, and there was no proof 
that I didn’t ; and then he bagged the money, and put 
that on me as well : there never was such a horrible 
lot of lies told against a fellow before, and I could do 
nothing but say I hadn’t done any of it/ 

‘ I am perfectly satisfied on the main point, Ernest. 
I am convinced, my dear boy, that you told the plain 
truth, and I am indignant that groundless suspicion 
should be laid upon you. But that need not distress 
you much. A clear conscience is like polished silver 
— the breath of deceit blown upon it only leaves a 
momentary dimness, which soon disappears, because 
the purity of the metal cannot retain it. Therefore 
neither you nor I need attach any grave importance 
to that part of the indictment. But, look you, Ernest, 
if you touch pitch you soil your fingers ; if you cast 
in your lot with unprincipled boys and get into trouble 
through their means, you cannot expect to escape the 
bitter consequences/ 

‘ I know that is all true, father. I have learnt by 
experience that I was a fool to have anything to do 
with Johnson. Maurice warned me, but I did not 
know what sort of a fellow he was. I was sorry for 


Digitized by Google 



CHRISTMAS HOLIDA YS . 127 

him because he was generally disliked and scouted. I 
was sorry for him because he was such a miserable, 
puny-looking wretch, and I don't suppose his parents 
care twopence about him.’ 

* I fully believe your motives were generous if not 
wise, Ernest ; but there is a screw loose somewhere 
which wants tightening. Possibly a little less self- 
reliance, and a little more deference to the shrewd 
advice of your good friend Maurice, might have saved 
you all the trouble. We all learn by experience, but 
it is often a stern teacher. I hope this lesson will not 
be lost upon you. Remember that a man is known 
by his friends. But with regard to the unsatisfactory 
nature of your work, and giving trouble to the masters, 
I am very sorry Dr. Saunderson should have cause to 
say such things — it cannot be alb Johnson. 1 

‘It was mostly, though, father — at least, it was 
because I was fool enough to sit by him in school. I 
know I have been foolish, father ; but it's give a dog a 
bad name and hang him. The Doctor was set against 
me by that heartless liar, and then he mentions things 

he would otherwise have passed over ’ 

‘ Oh, come, Ernest, that is hardly meeting the enemy 
in fair combat !' 

‘ I don't want to make excuses for everything, but 
Johnson was at the root of all my trouble, and it well- 
nigh breaks my heart to think how ungrateful and 
disreputable you and mother must think me !* 

Ernest rubbed his sleeve hard across his eyes. 


Digitized by Google 



128 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


* Well, my boy, put your shoulder to the wheel. I 
have every confidence in your good intentions, but 
they will not do by themselves. Candidly, I think one 
failing in your character is a want of stern resolution. 
You want some of Napoleon's spirit. You want to go 
straight up the hill against the enemy like the Black 
Watch in the battle of the Alma.' 

The Colonel took up a volume of Kinglake’s * Crimea/ 
and found the place and read : ‘ In the land where 
those men were bred there are shadows of clouds 
moving up the mountain-side, and their path is rugged 
and steep, but their course is smooth and easy. 
Smoothly and easily the long line moved up the hill, 
and the dense ranks of the enemy fell back/ 

The Colonel said a great deal more to Ernest, reason- 
ing with him on the ground of strong, high principle, 
and they were closeted together in the study nearly 
two hours. /What he chiefly insisted upon was that, 
looked at from any point of view, Dr. Saunderson’s 
report pointed to the fact that Ernest had made a bad 
start. There might be injustice arrayed against him — 
there evidently was the venom of malice and deceit— 
there might be manifold excuses, but the main result 
of his first term at St. Andrew's was disappointment 
and a sense of failure ; and if such a beginning was to 
be a criterion of the future, the prospect was not 
encouraging. 

Colonel Fairfield argued upon the highest ground 
of strong principle, founded on the fear of God, 


Digitized by 


Google 



CHRISTMAS HOLIDA YS . 


129 


honour to parents, and duty, and his words were 
forcible and straight to the point. They impressed 
Ernest with the consciousness that it was not all 
Johnson; that he had reaped the fruits of his own 
folly in making an intimate friend of such a boy. 
Nevertheless, though admitting that, and accusing 
himself with all bitterness, the dark shadow of the 
cloud still hovered over him, and his proud spirit 
chafed against being made the victim of meanness 
and deceit. 

But now the worst was over. The report had come; 
his father and mother knew of his troubles ; they had 
talked over the various incidents, and he had pro- 
mised them to put on a bold face against all that 
worried and vexed his peace of mind. The Colonel 
had rebuked his idleness and want of stern resolution, 
but he had smiled on him again, and said in his jolly 
way : 

‘ Cheer up, Ernest, my lad ; don’t be down in the 
mouth. You have been badly treated, and I have 
written to Dr. Saunderson, telling him what I think 
of his pupil Johnson, and hinting as broadly as 
possible that if he keeps such a young scoundrel in 
his school he cannot be surprised if parents remove 
their sons from his influence ; which I, for one, shall 
certainly do if Johnson does you any further injury. 
Such a young scapegrace would be kicked out of a 
regiment in no time, and it doesn’t say much for the 
tone of St. Andrew’s if such specimens are to be found 

9 


Digitized by Google 



ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


130 

in it. I have given the Doctor some of my mind 
on the subject, Ernest, and I hope he will act upon 
it: 

His father's conciliation was the greatest comfort 
to Ernest, and his mother's sympathy was so constant 
and deep, that their combined influence soon restored 
his spirits to their accustomed cheerfulness. And now 
that the shadow of the cloud seemed clearing away, 
Ernest was eager to ask Maurice down to Combe 
Grange. Mrs. Fairfield and the Colonel were delighted, 
and Maurice, who had been hoping for an invitation, 
wrote by return of post, accepting it with the utmost 
alacrity. 

The first of January dawned bright and frosty, and 
Ernest interpreted it as the harbinger of a glad new 
year. Maurice was to reach Bridport by the after- 
noon train, and, as before, Ernest drove over to meet 
him, and brought him to the Grange in high glee. 
While they were driving from the station, the Colonel 
went down to the lower regions of the cellar, attended 
by old John. They came back, each carrying a bottle, 
which might have been nothing but a heap of moulder- 
ing cobwebs, so far as outward appearance went, or 
might have been a precious relic exhumed from some 
ancient sarcophagus, and frail enough to fall to pieces 
under the influence of fresh air, so carefully did the 
master and servant carry their treasure. 

‘ Take care how you go upstairs, John ; don't shake 
it for the world ; don't move it out of that position. 


Digitized by 


Google 



CHRISTMAS HO LI DA VS. 


131 

Take care ! That’s it. Now, how can we decant 
them ? Let me see.’ 

They had reached the pantry, after one of the most 
solemn journeys old John had ever made, 

‘ Wuss than going to a funeral !’ as he afterwards 
reported in the kitchen. 

The bottles were placed side by side on the table, 
while the Colonel considered how to decant them. 
A happy thought struck him. 

‘ Ah, I’ve got it ! ’Tention ! Get that trestle which 
you use for sawing up the wood.’ 

John went and fetched it. The Colonel took oft* 
his coat, and rolled up his sleeves, and loaded his 
corkscrew. 

‘ Now, then, sit astride of the trestle and hold the 
bottle in position with both hands, and for dear life 
do not let it move !’ 

Old John knit his brows and set his jaws hard, and 
held tight to the bottle, aimed as if he were going to 
shoot the Colonel somewhere about the third button 
of the waistcoat. Meanwhile the gallant old officer 
screwed with the utmost caution, and pulled a steady 
pull, and without any catastrophe both the bottles 
were decanted. 

The warm reception which awaited Maurice at 
Combe Grange was a pleasant contrast to the cold 
journey he had had. They sat down to dinner that 
evening a snug party of four. The, stately silver 
candlesticks and epergne, which the officers of the 

9—2 

Digitized by Google 



132 


ERNEST FA/RE/ELD. 


regiment had presented to the Colonel on his retire- 
ment, had been brought out for the occasion, and the 
precious wines stood in their crystal decanters in front 
of the Colonel. 

‘We had a rare job, boys, John and I, to decant 
this wine; had to be done gingerly, I can tell you! 
Mary, my love, you must taste the sherry. It is some 
your dear father gave me on our wedding-day. He 
came down to the Grange soon after and brought it 
with him, and unpacked the hamper himself, and 
took out each bottle and put it in its place; and 
never a hand touched the bottle after his till I took 
it from its place this afternoon/ 

Old John carried round the decanter with due 
solemnity and filled Mrs. Fairfield’s glass. Then the 
Colonel directed him to do the same for Maurice and 
Ernest. 

‘ Have a glass of sherry, boys, and you shall taste 
the port at dessert. Doesn’t do to encourage young 
men to take wine. Never tasted a drop till I was 
eighteen. But on this auspicious occasion * 

The Colonel cleared his throat, but checked 
himself. He intended to make a little speech 
by-and-by, and was on the brink of anticipating 
matters. 

Then the plates were cleared, and the cloth re- 
moved in good old-fashioned style, and old John 
screwed up his eyes with a glance of honest pride, 
as he viewed the polished mahogany shining with 


Digitized by Google 



CHRISTMAS HOLIDA VS. 


133 


brilliant surface, for he had spent a good half-hour 
over it that morning.. 

The dessert was set in array, and Mrs. Fairfield was 
prevailed upon to let .Maurice half fill her glass with 
the famous vintage of ’45 ; and when all glasses were 
duly charged the Colonel again cleared his throat, and 
said: 

‘ Mary, my love, I should like to say a few words 
upon this occasion. My dear old father liked to get 
his family round him on the first night of a new year. 
He gave us a rattling good dinner, and then when our 
hearts were warmed with good cheer, he set them 
aglow with good words. Now I thank God for all His 
goodness to us during the past year. I thank Him for 
blessing me with such a wife and son, and for sending 
us such a good young friend as Maurice Elton. May 
God’s blessing rest upon us through this coming year ! 
May He order every event of it for our temporal and 
eternal good ! Attention ! Let us join in singing that 
dear old New Year’s toast : 

‘ Here’s a health to all those that we love ! 

Here’s a health to all those that love us ! 

Here’s a health to all those that love them that love those 

That love those that love them that love us !’ 

Three out of the four, being accomplished musicians, 
sang their parts with graceful expression. Ernest 
chimed in with a good round voice, which he did not 
exactly know how to manage, and sang no part in 
particular, but sang it heartily — it did not much 


Digitized by Google 



134 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


matter. Then the Colonel bowed to his wife, and 
drank the generous wine, and then they all drank to 
one another, and Mrs. Fairfield, with melting eyes, 
said : 

‘Ernest, you must return thanks for us to your 
father/ 

And Ernest blushed and cleared his throat, and 
said : 

‘ It’s rather alarming ! My dear father, we thank 
you for your good words. I am no hand at public 
speaking, but opposite me sits one of the brightest 
stars of his College Debating Club, and I must get 
him to treat us to a flourish of rhetoric. I hope I 
shall be able to please you and mother more this year 
than I did last. I promise you I will do my best, and 
I hope all your good words will come true. Now, 
Maurice, show me how I ought to have done it/ 

Maurice made some remarks with humour and 
without conceit, and the glasses rattled when he sat 
down. 

The days passed only too quickly. Maurice had 
been greatly relieved to find Ernest in such good 
spirits, not minding to talk over the troubles of last 
term, and taking a hopeful view of the future pros- 
pect. The Colonel and Mrs. Fairfield discussed the 
whole question with Maurice, and it was the greatest 
comfort to them to see how enthusiastically he sup- 
ported Ernest — how certain he was that all Ernest 
said was absolutely true. Ernest was a splendid 


Digitized by Google 



CHRISTMAS H0L1DA YS. 


135 


fellow, one of the finest runners at football that the 
college had ever known : the captain said so. It was 
not his fault if he hated lessons, and, after all, he did 
them infinitely better than lots of fellows. Many 
such conversations comforted the parents immensely. 

There was no lack of employment and amusement 
for the boys at Combe Grange. For one of them 
music in the evenings was an endless resource. There 
was the billiard- table for wet days — only the days 
were not wet. It was a bright, open winter ; and down 
in that fair southern land the days grew longer so 
perceptibly — you could see the time by your watch 
after five o’clock — and the buds on the trees looked 
beginning to swell, and occasional thrushes lifted up 
their voices in song. The hazel-groves were hung 
with ‘ lambs’-tails,’ and when the sun shone through 
them they were tassels of shimmery chenille. The 
two boys were out of doors almost all day long, some- 
times starting directly after breakfast, and breaking 
cover across country, over the hills and far away to 
the sea, going straight as the crow flies ; and then 
along the shore, while Maurice spouted Homer at 
intervals, and even Ernest found himself doing the 
same. ‘ Is Saul also among the prophets V asked 
Maurice. To be sure, Ernest’s quotation was limited 
to that one line ending with poluphloisboio thalasses , 
but by reason of his manner of utterance it did duty 
for a great deal. The great waves came surging 
onwards, tossing their fringed crests with a sprinkle of 


Digitized by Google 



ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


136 

dancing spray. Gathering gigantic volume, and poised 
for one brief moment in equilibrium, they curved over 
in fluted columns of burnished bronze, and plunged 
their mighty tons of water full upon the beach, re- 
bounding in ragged fragments of writhing waters, 
foamy fountains, and clouds of seething spray. Oh, 
the athesphaton deima , the unspeakable wonder of the 
boisterous sea ! Who can walk beside it unmoved, 

‘ when, with a wild commotion, when, with a rush and 
roar, the whole enormous ocean is flung upon the 
shore*? when the breaking waves, like huge sea-^ 
monsters, dig their myriad lion-claws deep into the 
solid earth, the white blood bursting and spouting in 
showery cataracts of foam ? 

‘PoluPHLOISBOIO thalassEEEES !’ shouted Ernest, 
with all the power his lungs could command, as some 
huge trikumia, some third wave, supposed by the 
Greeks to surpass the intervening two in magnitude, 
came down with a tremendous flump, and sent its 
streams of sea-champagne full thirty yards up the 
beach, to rush back swirling and curdling over the 
shingle with a hissing crescendo of the shrillest 
‘seeEEEEEEees/ 


Digitized by Google 



CHAPTER XI. 


ULYSSES OF MANY WILES. 

Ernest went back to St. Andrew’s with good resolu- 
tions, strengthened by the affectionate counsels of his 
_ parents and the sober schoolboy philosophy of 
Maurice. He was determined to take a hopeful view 
of things, and pay no regard to any insinuations about 
the past ; to go at his lessons like a puppy worrying 
some convenient article of furniture within reach ; to 
show proper respect to all his masters, and, above 
everything, to keep clear of any dealings with 
Johnson. 

The prospect gradually unfolded itself with more 
pleasure and less discomfort than he had ventured to 
expect. His old friends, the burly members of the 
Shell, were as jolly as sand-boys towards him. Others, 
who since the * excitement’ had either treated him 
with cold disdain or steered past him with sneering 
superiority, now shifted the helm a point or two, and 
showed more friendly inclinations. Even Johnson’s 
friends ceased from openly offensive behaviour. There 
seemed a general disposition to acknowledge that he 
had not been fairly treated, and that he was really 


Digitized by Google 



ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


138 

a thorough good fellow at heart, which verdict was 
true. His work was now far more satisfactory, and 
all the masters spoke well of him. Ernest was now 
putting his shoulder to the wheel, and exerting him- 
self manfully to do his work. He had found himself 
on return to St. Andrew’s bottom but one of the old 
Shell, with seven fresh additions, either new boys or 
boys promoted. Johnson was next above him. But after 
four weeks* work, in which Ernest mounted upwards 
by leaps and bounds, he was top of the class. This 
gave him the keenest satisfaction, and Maurice’s con- 
gratulations were delightful, and they both wrote 
such letters to Combe Grange that Colonel and Mrs. 
Fairfield were made thoroughly happy. And to crown 
it all, after Ernest had again come out top with flying 
colours in the fifth week’s marks, Dr. Saunderson 
called him up and congratulated him, and said he 
was now doing his duty nobly, and as an unusual 
mark of approbation he would promote him into the 
Lower Fifth at the end of the sixth week. 

* Oh, sir, I don’t know how to thank you ! It will 
make them so happy at home !’ 

* Well, my boy, it is for me to thank you for really 
exerting yourself to work. I was willing to make 
every allowance for you last term in this respect ; the 
first term is generally more or less of a trial term for 
a boy. But I tell you candidly that last term you 
did not work as you ought, and this term you have 
done so, and the difference in the results must be a 


Digitized by Google 



ULYSSES OF MANY WILES . 


139 


clear proof to you that my judgment on that score at 
any rate was correct/ 

Ernest could not question the truth of these re- 
marks, though the corollary suggested at the end 
grated on his soul. However, his eyes had been 
opened by the brilliant results of his work, and he 
felt that it was quite another thing to what it had been. 

During these five weeks Ernest had stuck rigidly 
to his determination to have nothing to do with 
Johnson. He had not once spoken to him, though 
there had often been provocation. At first Johnson 
kept in the background, and seemed disposed to be 
quiet and unobtrusive. His offensive swagger had 
been pleasantly noticeable by its absence, and he had 
not even given Mr. Raikes any cause for serious com- 
plaint. But this state of things only lasted a fort- 
night or so. As time went on the old spirit seemed 
to revive in this most unlovely boy. He was less at- 
tentive at lessons, and more disposed to be trouble- 
some. He got some of the new boys into scrapes 
and received a castigation from the ‘ Pag * (as the pre- 
fectorial tribunal was concisely called). And then, 
resenting Ernest’s persistent refusal to speak, Johnson 
had latterly tried by various methods to provoke him 
to say something. But Ernest, though often sore 
tempted to let out upon him both with hand and 
tongue, restrained the inclination, and Johnson’s evil 
heart meditated bitter imaginations against him. 
Johnson had not forgotten how Ernest felled him to 


Digitized by Google 



140 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


the ground that day last term ; he had not forgotten 
Ernest’s sneering contempt at his play in that foot- 
ball match ; he was filled with malicious envy against 
Ernest’s popularity and success this term, and now 
the engrossing thought in Johnson’s heart was 
nothing else than to compass the ruin of Ernest’s 
happiness. 

There had been a rage in the school that term for 
scientific toys. Some boy had brought back a 
beautiful model engine and train, with lines of rails 
that would reach from one end of the schoolroom to 
the other. It was fine sport to the smaller boys to 
set this engine off, and see it puff on its way right 
gallantly. Even some of the seniors could not resist 
the attraction, and two prefects were seen to stop 
one day and watch the progress of the toy-train. 
Then, fired by emulation, other boys invested in small 
locomotives and lines of rails. The ‘ plant ’ increased 
rapidly, until there were no less than three rival com- 
panies with three distinct lines scientifically laid in 
the schoolroom. Then followed engine-races, and 
then trains were started at half-speed, followed by 
others at full-speed, whereby accidents and runnings- 
in were represented with all the pomp and pageant of 
reality. 

But the crowning diversion was reserved for a 
scheme which exactly suited the reckless audacity of 
boys. Two happy possessors of engines — Ramsden 
and Sturgess — had an unhappy dispute about their 


Digitized by Google 



ULYSSES OF MANY WILES . 141 

respective merits in speed and strength. There were 
numerous partisans for each. The engines were 
started side by side on parallel lines at the same 
moment, and by the verdict of appointed judges they 
passed the winning-post simultaneously. They were 
found to weigh the same, and in every imaginable re- 
spect seemed of equal merit. But as neither owner 
would rest content with equality, it was resolved to 
test the question by the only method which promised 
to be decisive. 

The most skilful engineers among the boys were 
employed to make a line of rails perfectly level. Plates 
were taken up and relaid by the spirit-level. So 
keen was the interest shown in the forthcoming con- 
test that a fellow in the Upper Fifth, regardless of the 
fact that he had on his best trousers, at the request of 
an engineer would lie down at full length on the 
dirty floor ; and, laying his head in the dust, with 
cocked eye would survey the line and pronounce his 
opinion as contentedly as if a young lady had asked 
him to sit by her side at a garden-party and eat 
strawberries and cream. 

The contest was duly advertised, and when the 
appointed time came every member of the college 
was assembled in the schoolroom, and the babel 
of tongues rivalled the proverbial clamour of the 
Stock Exchange. 

The conditions of the contest had been drawn up 
by a committee, each competitor choosing three repre- 


Digitized by Google 



142 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


sentatives. The antagonists were to toss for ends. 
Each engine was to be started behind a chalk-mark 
drawn at either end of the course. The space between 
these marks had been divided in half by the most 
accurate measurement, and at that point a line of 
white thread was passed under the plates, chalk being 
not deemed delicate enough. Whichever engine first 
reached this central line was to be pronounced the 
conqueror, provided that both were so damaged by the 
collision as to be incapable of further locomotion. If, 
however, the one which reached the line first should 
be incapacitated by the subsequent shock, while the 
other should be able to continue its journey when 
set upright, this latter engine should be pronounced 
the conqueror. 

These conditions were now read out as soon as com- 
parative silence had been obtained. The owners tossed 
for choice of ends. Ramsden won, and, being a youth 
of fashion, chose the west end. Steam was com- 
manded to be got up ; boilers were filled ; spirit-lamps 
charged and lighted. Then a quiet interval passed, 
and heads were strained from one end to the other 
watching for the first symptoms of steam. Then came 
the supreme moment Each engine was evidently 
impatient of delay. The starter asked if Ramsden 
and Sturgess were ready. They answered : 

‘ Yes/ 

He then asked if the two judges and referees were 
ready at the central line. 


Digitized by Google 



ULYSSES OF MANY WILES . 143 

‘Yes.’ 

Then if each umpire at the starting-points was 
ready. 

‘Yes/ 

‘ Then, Ramsden and Sturgess, place your engines 
on the rails in exact position. If either of you, by the 
verdict of his umpire, in the slightest degree propels 
his engine forward at the word “ Go,” his umpire shall 
disqualify him. I shall say, “Are you ready ? Go !” 
Ramsden’s umpire, is all straight at your end V 

‘ Yes.’ 

‘ Sturgess’s umpire, is all straight at your end ?” 

• Yes/ 

‘ Are you ready ? Go f 

The two gallant little ‘ puff-puffs ’ (as the dear little 
two-year-olds call them) set out upon their momentous 
journey, heedless of the awful agony in prospect. The 
excitement was tremendous. The course was 105 
feet long. Shouts of ‘Ramsden!’ ‘Sturgess !' were 
simply deafening. Forward they went on their deadly 
way, gathering velocity and momentum at every 
stroke of the pistons, and, amid a breathless lull, the 
crisis of the crisis arrived. There was a smart report 
of clashing metal, a pause of one-fiftieth of a second, 
a fizzing hiss of rushing wheels, a kick-up and a 
smash. The Ramsden was thrown off the rails, and 
appeared damaged beyond reclaim — piston bent, 
wheels jammed, the spirit of its furnace flung over 
its remains in a flickering pall of funeral flames. The 


Digitized by Google 



144 ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 

Sturgess was also a crippled wreck — funnel bent, 
boiler rent, steam bursting from unauthorized places. 
Neither engine could ever hope to run again without 
very extensive repairs. 

Then there was excitement to know which had 
reached the middle point first. Amid uproar and 
confusion, Kamsden’s judge was understood to give 
his verdict in favour of the Sturgess engine, and 
Sturgess’s judge to give his in favour of the Eamsden 
engine. The referee was consequently appealed to, 
and he positively declined to pass a decisive sentence. 
He said that, as far as he could see, it was a dead-heat, 
slightly in favour of both of them. 

And so the matter rested ; and the remains of the 
gallant little puff-puffs, which had sacrificed their 
lives at the shrine of glory, were recovered by their 
respective owners, and eventually set up, all shattered 
and shivered by the violence of the collision, under a 
glass case, and given a place of honour in the college 
museum. Cards were attached to them by blue 
ribbons, giving a brief account of the celebrated 
struggle, and so they were preserved to be handed 
down among the heirlooms through all future genera- 
tions. 

This rage for scientific recreation was by no means 
confined to toy- engines. A chemical chest was intro- 
duced, and experiments performed resulting in flame, 
smoke and smell. One boy got a magneto-electrical 
machine, which turned out a shocking investment. 


Digitized by Google 



ULYSSES OF MANY WILES . 145 

And, among several other scientific toys, Ernest 
bought a galvanic battery, with yards of fine copper 
wire for sending telegraphic messages and performing 
other experiments. 

It was Ernest’s last week in the Shell, and he was 
exceedingly anxious to be top in week’s marks, that he 
might take his leave with all the elan of a hero’s 
apotheosis. The Shell was engaged in a lesson of 
Homer with Mr. Kaikes. Ernest was at the top 
of the class, attending with all his might, his eyes 
riveted on the book and his mind absorbed in the 
lesson. The construing had been done, and drill was 
proceeding in the Homeric forms and epithets. 
Ernest was always alarmed at this artillery practice, 
but no question had yet passed him, and time would 
soon be up. Mr. Kaikes was dilating upon the various 
adjectives applied to Jupiter, the fellows at the lower 
end of the class appearing to find a difficulty in 
remembering and keeping them distinct. This was 
the style of it : 

‘ Eribromos V 

1 Cloud-compelling !’ 

‘ Next/ 

‘ Sweet-smelling !’ 

* Next/ 

* Foul-smelling / 

€ Next/ 

‘ Long-eared f 


Digitized by Google 



146 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


‘ Loud-thundering !* 

‘ Go up !’ 

Hardly were the last words spoken, when, as though 
Jupiter himself would signify his approval of the 
correct answer, there sounded a loud, thundering 
clap from the drawer of Mr. Raikes’ chair. Fizz, 
bang ! went another crack, and eke a third. ‘ Shiver- 
ing claps and cracks !’ while sulphurous smoke uprose 
from the crevices of the drawer. Be sure Mr. Raikes 
was no longer seated ! At the first report he bounced 
up as if shot, and his pince-nez flew off. He turned 
round to look at the chair, and winced perceptibly 
at each fresh crack. Everyone was thunder-struck. 
Mr. Raikes made some attempts to speak after the 
cannonade had ceased, and eventually succeeded. 

‘I suppose some of you are implicated in this 
foolish outrage. I must report what has happened 
to the Doctor, and leave him to investigate it as 
he thinks right. We will finish the lesson, how- 
ever.’ 

This last remark was added after he had opened 
the drawer, and satisfied himself that no further 
fulminations were probable. It might be wearisome 
to linger over the coincident details of this perform- 
ance, how the boys discussed it and wondered how it 
had been managed. No touch-paper could have 
burned for an hour and fifty minutes, for they had 
been at work in the class-room since 9 o’clock, and 
the explosion took place at 10.50. The room was 


Digitized by Google 



ULYSSES OF MANY WILES . 147 

locked immediately after the Homer lesson, and again 
after the subsequent morning lessons, and at afternoon 
school-time, as we stood round the door for admission, 
Dr. Saunderson sailed up and unlocked the door him- 
self. When we were assembled he expressed his pro- 
found indignation at what he called ‘ another of those 
senseless and dastardly outrages which no right- 
minded boy would demean himself to commit/ He 
demanded to know how it happened ? But no one 
volunteered any information; indeed, everyone seemed 
amazed. It was easy enough to put a cracker in the 
drawer of the chair, but how to explode it two hours 
afterwards baffled explanation. Clockwork contriv- 
ances for timing explosions were not familiarly used 
in those days. 

Since no information was forthcoming the Doctor 
made us all ‘line up’ in the middle of the room, 
while he made his investigations. He examined the 
drawer and the remains of the cracker; then he 
opened each desk in succession. One boy’s desk 
specially attracted his attention, for he went back 
after completing the round, and had another look 
into it. He examined it underneath; he examined 
the legs, and the floor in its neighbourhood. Then 
he went back to the chair and again examined the 
drawer, and even took it right out and felt about with 
his hand in the empty cavity. 

The boys noticed that it was Fairfield’s desk which 
received this particular notice. They nudged one an- 

10—2 


Digitized by Google 



148 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


other and pointed. Ernest looked surprised, and got 
rather red. 

‘ Well/ said the Doctor, ‘ I am satisfied that the 
cracker was exploded by means of that battery in 
your desk, Fairfield. It was a deep-laid plot. There 
are copper wires passing from the cell to the drawer. 
It must have taken some time to arrange the trick, 
and there must have been some contrivance for com- 
pleting the circuit at a given moment I suppose the 
battery is your property V 

1 Yes, sir.’ 

* Do you know anything about the plot V 

‘ No, sir.’ 

Poor Ernest felt the blood mounting to his cheeks 
as he answered. In a moment all the horrible 
suspicions of last term were recalled. Was the ordeal 
to be repeated again ? Ernest looked with a furious 
bewildered expression at J ohnson, which was met by 
a strong and insolent stare. 

The Doctor resumed his investigations, and soon 
traced the progress of the wires along parallel spaces 
between three boards in the floor. One wire passed 
directly into the drawer ; the other diverged, so as to 
run just under the seat of the form in front of the 
master's desk, passing along the entire length of the 
semicircular seat in detached links hooked loosely to- 
gether. It was clear that any boy sitting on the seat 
could easily complete the circuit by joining two of 
these links if they happened to be disconnected where 


Digitized by Google 



ULYSSES OF MANY WILES . 


149 


he sat. The Doctor briefly stated his discoveries, and 
then left the room. 

Immediately after lessons Ernest was sent for to 
the study. The Doctor looked very stem as he sat 
at his writing-table with multitudinous papers strewn 
over it. Suddenly he turned and said : 

* Fairfield, you are one of the strangest puzzles I 
ever knew ! Are these the iambics you sent up last 
Tuesday ?’ 

Ernest looked at the paper and said : 

‘Yes, sir.* 

‘ Are you quite sure V 

‘ Quite certain, sir. I spilled some ink by mistake, 
and tried to scratch it out. There was no time to 
write them again/ 

The Doctor took the paper, which was written very 
carefully, fifteen lines, copper-plate Greek, with 
breathings and accents, and author’s name complete. 
Then he said : 

‘ Well, just read me those three lines.’ 

Ernest read : 

’XI (3 purs 'YuTxsg, 'YaTx.e; oj /3pvru)rocre , 
era vrw xax/m /3?j<rr/wv xoXXriyion v, 
v /3Xsu (i i uer f3e<pcup’ } f3Xu v uer /?g /vd. 

‘ Do you tell me you wrote that ?’ said the Doctor, 
rising from his chair. 

‘No, sir, of course I didn’t. What can it mean? 
It must be that infamous cad, Johnson, again !’ 


Digitized by Google 



ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


150 

‘ Stop a moment; you are rather too fond of accusing 
Johnson. I have not done with you yet. Are you 
aware that for some time past boys in the Shell have 
complained of having had money stolen ? Some have 
found their purses gone. Suspicion was attached to 
you; and acting under my suggestion, the prefects 
made the Shell-boys mark all the coins in their pos- 
session, and told the shopkeepers to put by every 
piece of money that you paid to them. What is the 
result ? Yesterday Armstrong went to four shops, and 
no less than six of these marked coins were given to 
him, each of which had been presented by you. To 
make matters more certain — if further proof could 
possibly be wanted — I had your study searched last 
night, when two of the missing purses were found 
behind the books in your shelf. Now it is absolutely 
incredible that all this is the work of Johnson, or 
anyone else, except yourself. I denounce you as an 
unprincipled impostor, guilty of the grossest falsehoods, 
the meanest deceit, the most infamous theft. The 
whole has been covered by plausible hypocrisy. My 
suspicions were strongly aroused last term ; they 
have now been overwhelmingly confirmed. I cannot 
express my horror and indignation against you. I 
have to-day written to your father, asking him to 
come and take you away to-morrow. Meanwhile 
you will be kept in strict confinement. Come with 
me.’ 

The Doctor, who during this terrible impeachment 


Digitized by Google 



ULYSSES OF MANY WILES , 151 

had walked to and fro, now laid his hand powerfully on 
Ernest’s arm, and led him tottering out of the room, 
upstairs to a small bedroom lighted by a gas-jet. The 
Doctor pushed him in, and, shutting the door, locked 
it, and took away the key. 


Digitized by Google 



CHAPTER XII. 


NIGHT AND MORNING. 

Ernest was so stunned by the Doctor's speech that for 
a long time he stood in the middle of the room, unable 
to realize the situation. Gradually the different points 
of accusation came over him : the cracker, the iambics. 
Ernest half questioned his own soundness of mind. 
Could he have arranged the wires and written those 
extraordinary lines in his sleep, and acted to his own 
destruction like the Spectre of Tappington ? He had 
been so excited about his work, that possibly his head 
might have been turned. He had read of fellows over- 
working themselves crazy, and he half fancied it must 
be the case with himself. Then there rushed over his 
mind in a tumultuous conflict the Doctor’s terrible words 
— unprincipled impostor, liar, thief, hypocrite — and 
finally the letter to his father! Ernest uttered a deep 
groan, and threw himself on the bed, and lay with his 
eyes fixed in a wild stare upon the ceiling. One 
thought swallowed up all others: What would his 
father and mother think when the letter arrived? His 
mother, with all her unbounded love ! His father — 
ah ! what had Dr. O’Grady said about a sudden shock? 


Digitized by Google 



■ NIGHT AND MORNING . 


153 


It might perhaps kill his father ! The thought made 
him mad ! He sprang up from the bed. How could 
he meet his father ? How could he possibly go home, 
when all his parents’ love and pride in him must be 
crushed out of existence ? He clenched his fists and 
hit out right and left with all his might into the air. 

Presently he opened the window and looked out. 
He could see the illuminated face of the college clock. 
It was half* past six; the evening was cloudy. The 
room was on the first floor, in the same block as that 
of Mr. Kaikes. Ernest could see the passage where he 
stood on the evening of the fifth of November. The 
distance from the window to the ground was about 
twenty feet. Ernest, as he looked, felt a ray of relief. 
He w r ould wait till all was quiet for the night and 
escape from the window. The sheets, divided and 
knotted together, would easily reach to the ground. 

Then the bell rang for tea, and a few minutes after- 
wards he heard footsteps in the passage. A servant 
brought him some tea and bread and butter and 
necessaries for the night, and locked the door again 
without a word. 

Ernest was now rather more accustomed to the sense 
of his trouble. He had *a good conscience. He could 
look Dr. Saunderson in the face and still say he had 
never wilfully told a lie in his life. Either he had 
done things in a state of mind when he was not 
responsible for his actions, or else it was Johnson. He 
never for a moment doubted that it was Johnson. 


Digitized by Google 



154 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


But he had been foully accused of hideous crimes 
against which his whole soul revolted. How could the 
Doctor dare to bring those horrible accusations against 
him ? And yet — the marked coins ! He had certainly 
been to the shops. He had bought three raspberrry 
tarts at Stuffings’, and paper and pens at Scribbler’s, 
and a couple of oranges at Cheesy’s. What could 
there have been odd about the coins? Who could 
have marked them ? 

Ernest thought on as he munched his bread and 
butter, and was able to take a calmer view of things. 
He was determined not to stop another night at St. 
Andrew’s if he could help it. It would be some satis- 
faction to show the Doctor that he could not call him 
those horrible names for nothing. But where should 
he go if he did get away ? He took out his purse ; it 
contained sixteen shillings, enough to take him home ; 
but how could he go home ? The old flood of agonizing 
thoughts swept over him, and again he drew desperate 
gasps of breath. He rolled on the bed, and kicked 
and tore at the iron framework as if he would rend it 
asunder. 

The chapel bell had tolled, the boys had gone to 
bed, the gas was turned off at the main ; he watched 
the jet in his room dwindle in strength until it was 
only a minute blue spark ; he got up and turned the 
tap, and then looked out of window. It was a very 
dark night. He would wait an hour or so, and then 
make an attempt for liberty. 


Digitized by Google 



NIGHT AND MORNING. 


155 


Slowly the time passed before the clock struck 
twelve, and chimed the quarters on to one. He would 
wait another half-hour. He felt strongly excited. The 
quarter past . . . the half-hour. He got up and 
quickly removed the sheets. Folding them carefully on 
the floor, he divided them with his knife. Then, 
twisting each part into a rope, he knotted them firmly 
together. When this was done he tied one end round 
the central mullion of the double window, and having 
tested the whole as well as he could in the narrow 
compass, he quietly got through the window and let 
himself down hand-over-hand without any noise. In 
half a minute he was on the ground. Not a sound 
was heard. Running lightly while near the buildings, 
he darted across the playground and down the slopes 
on to the cricket- field, and as he bounded over the 
turf a sense of freedom made his limbs glow with 
vigorous warmth. In three minutes he had climbed 
over the fence and was outside the college grounds. 

His mind was made up. He would walk to 
Gordington, a small town about twelve miles off, 
where there was a station on a branch line to Bristol, 
and take the first train in the morning. What should 
he do then ? His mind was drawn in two opposite 
directions. He would like to go home and rush into 
his mother’s arms, and say : ‘ Mother, don’t be un- 
happy ! It’s all a mistake. You know I never told a 
he, and as for stealing money, it’s too laughable to be 
serious !’ But, oh ! what would be the effect of the 


Digitized by Google 



ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


156 

Doctor’s cruel letter upon his father ? Any sudden 
shock might be fatal. The horror of the thought 
in Ernest’s mind seemed to sap the fountains of his 
life. 

He walked on mile after mile. It was not so dark 
now. A moon three-quarters old had risen, and the 
road stretched out before him in a clear gray line, and 
he trudged briskly on, feeling all the better in body 
for the exercise, but paralyzed in mind. He could 
not help congratulating himself upon his easy escape, 
and he thought what an excitement there would be 
when the sheet' was found dangling from the window. 
It struck him that his flight might go far towards 
making the fellows think he was guilty, but they 
would be sure to think so when the Doctor told them 
his convictions. 

It was now five o’clock, and the eastern sky was 
brightening with the ethereal loveliness of a pale 
primrose hue, above the broad range of impenetrable 
vapour which brooded over the distant city of Bristol. 
Feathery clouds of an apricot tint floated softly in the 
primrose expanse, and the crisp exhilaration of a March 
morning dawned upon the world. 

Ernest was glad to reach Gordington, for the long 
walk under present circumstances was a severe tax 
upon his strength. On arriving at the station, he 
found that a workmen’s train would soon start for 
Bristol. He took a ticket and stood in company with 
some twenty artisans, and got into an empty third- 


Digitized by Google 



NIGHT AND MORNING. 157 

class carriage. During the journey exhausted nature 
began to assert her sway. A sense of extreme weari- 
ness —the result of his agitation and sleepless night 
and long walk — came over him, and with it his 
thoughts returned to the interview in Dr. Saunder- 
son’s study. ‘ Unprincipled impostor, thief, liar, 
plausible hypocrite f The Doctor had called him 
those names, and written them home. He would 
have written in the most forcible language, and put 
every point forward with the clearest evidence. How 
could Ernest possibly match his word against the 
Doctor’s ? His mother would at first refuse to believe 
him guilty, but when all was laid so plainly before her, 
how could she help being convinced ? She might say 
she trusted him still, but by what arguments could he 
make it seem the least probable that he was innocent ? 
And then his father — could he bear up against the 
awful shock ? Dr. Saunderson would be a murderer ; 
The thought of going home under such a load of sus- 
picion, and with such an agonizing prospect, was simply 
unbearable. 

At seven o’clock he found himself on the platform 
at Bristol Station, and his first idea was to get break- 
fast. He went into a restaurant and sat down in a 
recess, and ordered ham and eggs, rolls and coffee. 
Ernest afterwards in happier days said he never made 
such a breakfast in his life. Having paid for it and 
tipped the waiter, he asked if he might see a paper 
and rest a little. 


Digitized by Google 



i 5 8 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


‘ Certainly, sir ; as long as you please/ 

Ernest stretched himself on the luxurious lounge, 
and in five minutes he was sound asleep. The waiter 
quietly drew the curtain of the recess that he might 
not be disturbed, and Ernest slept a long, sweet, 
dreamless sleep of nearly five hours. 

It was past one o’clock when he awoke, thoroughly 
refreshed. He stretched and yawned several times, 
and came out and had a good wash and brush-up in 
the lavatory, and so passed into the street. 

The blaze of afternoon was dazzling ; the sky cloud- 
less blue, softened by a thin smoky haze, but still 
brilliant. The breath of life was in the breeze ; the 
streets were astir with busy traffic. Ernest felt the 
invigorating influence of new sights and sounds. He 
walked on, and seeing the masts of ships in the dis- 
tance, he directed his way to the docks. A marvellous 
sight now opened to his view — a forest of shipping of 
various kinds, such as he had never before seen. He 
walked on enchanted. Huge steamers lay alongside 
the quay ; great merchantmen, with their tall, orange- 
red masts and tapering yards and maze of rigging; 
everywhere bustle and activity — a sight full of wonder 
and attraction to a boy not familiar with such scenes. 
The water, moved by the wind, rippled in silvery 
floods within the dock, and lapped the monstrous 
keels with melodious music, making them shine like 
polished brass. 

Ernest forgot his troubles while his mind was 


Digitized by Google 



NIGHT AND MORNING. 


159 


riveted in admiration upon the magnificent ships. 
And now he came to one which seemed the hand- 
somest of all — a noble clipper. The bustle on board 
seemed more brisk than on any ship he had seen. 
Sailors were upon the yards, getting the sails in order. 
The captain was walking about the deck, issuing 
commands. Ernest stood entranced among a group 
of sailors, watching the operations from the quay. 
He heard them say that this ship, the Calypso , was 
to sail that afternoon for the West Indies. They said 
she was a splendid vessel, and Ernest entered into 
conversation with them. They answered him civilly, 
and one man said : 

* You looks as though you'd like to go with ’em. 
Why don’t you ask the cap’n ? He’d take you right 
enough. He was only inquiring this morning for a 
youngster, and you look sturdy enough — not likely to 
be on the sick-list.’ 

‘ Do you really think he would take me ? Might I 
go on board ?’ 

‘Ay, sure, they’ll let you go on board; just walk 
down the gangway as if the whole world belonged to 
you. ’Tain’t every day a cap’n gets a chance of such 
a strapping young fellow as you.’ 

Ernest hesitated no longer. He took the man at 
his word, and boldly stepped upon the gangway, and 
in another moment was upon the deck. The captain 
was standing alone, looking about and occasionally 
giving an order, but otherwise unoccupied. Ernest 


Digitized by Google 



i6o 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


walked up to him, and, holding his school-cap in his 
hand, said : 

* Will you take me with you, sir ? Ill work hard 
and do anything you tell me, though I was never on 
board a ship before/ 

The captain looked at him steadily, taking him in 
from head to foot. The boy’s appearance was cal- 
culated to excite a sailor’s admiration — so handsome, 
and well set up, with his curly brown hair and healthy 
complexion, and the fire of youth burning in his eyes. 
The captain put his hand on Ernest’s shoulder, and 
said : 

‘ What, my lad, you want to go to sea, eh ? Well, 
we want an extra hand, and you look the right sort of 
stuff. Mind, I shall ask no questions. You need not 
tell me your name. I mustn’t get into a row about 
you. I shall call you Jack; and if you really care to 
come with us we’ll treat you kindly, and feed you 
well, and only give you easy work. Come, is it a 
bargain ?’ 

* Yes, sir, thank you.’ 

‘All right then, Jack!’ and the captain took his 
hand and gave it a mighty shake, and said: ‘We 
must get off those grand togs, Jack, and keep ’em for 
shore. Come to my cabin; I’ve got a suit for you 
more to the purpose/ 

Ernest went into the cabin, and soon reappeared in 
true sailor’s costume. He was then introduced to the 
bos'un, and sent to help stow away cargo below deck. 


Digitized by Google 




“ ‘ What, my lad, you want to go to sea, eh ? 

See page 160. 


Digitized by LjOOQle 



Digitized by 



NIGHT AND MORNING . 


161 


He worked with a will, and pleased the sailors by the 
nimbleness and strength he displayed. It was just 
the work to suit him, wherein the hands might 
labour, and the heart follow, and the head take it 
easy. 

An hour or so passed, and a bell sounded for 
dinner. Ernest received a pannikin of soup, some 
bread, and a slice of meat. He ate with a good heart, 
and afterwards went to work again. By four o’clock 
everything was finished. He had nothing more to do 
for the present, and stood on deck wrapped in a kind 
of strange dream. The sailor who had talked to him 
recognised him, and shouted : 

'So you be going along with ’em — good luck to 
you !’ 

And now a tug-steamer, pouring forth volumes of 
black smoke, came panting up. The cable was 
quickly adjusted, the hawsers were loosed to the sing- 
song accompaniment of sailors’ voices, the gangway 
was rattled off upon the quay, and, amid waving of 
caps and handkerchiefs and shouts of ‘ Farewell !’ the 
Calypso moved from her moorings and began her 
voyage towards the Severn sea. 

The remembrance of yesterday’s trouble had utterty 
vanished from Ernest’s mind, swallowed up in the 
ecstasy of new life. The great vessel went forward 
on her course down the Avon. Ernest could not 
repress an exclamation of amazement as they passed 
under the Clifton Suspension Bridge, with the 

11 


Digitized by Google 



ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


162 

Nightingale Woods fringing the defile where the busy 
clink of quarrymen’s hammers sounded clear upon 
the air. Men, women, and children, walking on the 
roads which run parallel with the river, stood still to 
watch the gallant ship. Portishead was passed, and 
Clevedon and Weston — the Steep and Flat Holms — 
and a momentary pang shot through Ernest’s soul as 
he looked in the direction of Lewesdon Hill. But he 
quickly turned his gaze in the opposite direction, 
where Cardiff loomed across the waters in its shroud 
of smoke. The beautiful Bay of Porlock, and the 
bold Foreland, with Lynmouth climbing up the 
wooded heights to Linton ; past Ilfracombe and the 
blinking lighthouse on Bull Point; past Hartland, 
onwards towards the fading glory of a grand sunset 
conflagration. The sun had long since sunk like a 
red-hot globe in the sea, making a crimson pathway 
for the ship. The twilight had deepened, all sail had 
been set, the tug had gone back, the stars come out 
— ‘ the forget-me-nots of the angels ’ — and the stately 
vessel sailed out into the dark-heaving, infinite waters 
of the Atlantic. 


Digitized by Google 



CHAPTER XIII. 


THE SHADOW OF DEATH. 

Probably there are few deeper sources of happiness 
to parents than the assurance that their sons are doing 
well at school. Those words of the wise king, ‘A 
good report maketh the bones fat,’ find a close appli- 
cation in the parental mind with reference to their 
boys. A good report — untarnished by any qualifica- 
tions softly worded (it may be) to disguise as far as 
possible the sense of failure, but still as obvious 
in their meaning as a more open avowal of dissatis- 
faction — is a very precious document in a father’s 
hands. And conversely, as Euclid says, when a father 
receives irom nis boy’s schoolmaster a bad report, or 
a special letter entering particularly into details which 
show that the son is not ‘ walking in the way safely,’ 
the contrast is as great; few deeper sources of un- 
happiness than that sheet of paper can affect a 
parent’s soul. 

Colonel and Mrs. Fairfield were sitting at the 
breakfast-teble in the dining-room at Combe Grange 
when the post arrived bringing Dr. Saunderson’s 
letter. Being an old campaigner, the Colonel never 

11—2 


Digitized by Google 



164 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


opened any letter in public, unless sure beforehand 
that it probably contained nothing of an unpleasant 
character. He sorted out of the letter-bag the letters 
addressed to his wife. Then, looking over his own, 
he recognised the Doctor’s handwriting. As the 
letter was unexpected, and seemed of portentous 
dimensions, the Colonel put it in his pocket, and 
opened one or two others of trivial importance. 
After breakfast he went into his study and read Dr. 
Saunderson’s letter in private, and as he read it his 
face grew pale with agitation, and his heart sank 
within him. It was written, as Ernest had surmised, 
in the strongest terms. Charges of the grossest im- 
pertinence to a master, of the most deliberate false- 
hoods and systematic theft, had been proved against 
his son beyond any shadow of doubt. It was, there- 
fore, impossible for him to remain another day at St. 
Andrew’s College. Dr. Saunderson therefore found it 
his painful duty to request Colonel Fairfield to come 
immediately on receipt of this letter and take his son 
away. The letter concluded with expressions of the 
deepest sympathy and regret that such a course was 
rendered necessary. 

The perusal of this letter was a very serious shock 
to the Colonel’s system. As he sat leaning back in 
his chair and tried to think calmly upon the matter^ 
his breath came in short broken gasps. He felt his 
feet and hands grow cold ; he tried to rise, but could 
not ; all his strength seemed to desert him ; his brain 


Digitized by Google 



THE SHADO W OF DEA TH 165 

seemed a whirl of confusion, and then suddenly he 
became unconscious. 

Mrs. Fairfield, little thinking what had happened, 
went about her household duties as usual, and when 
these were finished she went, as her custom was, to 
her husband’s study. On entering the room she was 
overwhelmed with horror to see the Colonel with his 
head thrown back in the chair, his eyes closed, his 
face pale as death, his mouth open, and his white 
hands hanging listlessly over the arms of the chair. 
Mrs. Fairfield instantly opened the window, and rang 
the bell. The servant came and fetched restoratives. * 
Old John was sent for Dr. O’Grady, and after a 
most anxious half-hour the Colonel slowly recovered 
from his swoon. 

As he lay resting on the sofa with closed eyes, Mrs. 
Fairfield read the letter. Perhaps it would have 
troubled her very seriously had she read it under less 
agitating circumstances ; as it was, anxiety for her 
husband absorbed every other consideration. She felt 
so certain of Ernest’s innocence that the terrible 
accusations of Dr. Saunderson only occasioned her a 
moment’s disquietude. When Dr. O’Grady arrived, 
Mrs. Fairfield saw him in the drawing-room before 
he went into the study. She explained what was 
evidently the cause of the Colonel’s attack, for he had 
not spoken since he recovered consciousness. 

‘ Ah, my dear lady,’ replied the doctor in his strong 
Irish accent, ‘ the brave old warrior is not so young as 


Digitized by Google 



i6 6 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD, 


he was. These strokes of the pen have done him 
more serious mischief than those of the Sepoy swords. 
You must keep him very quiet, and not let him worry 
over it more than you can help. Sure, but he must 
no more go to Washborough than to the moon, nor 
stir out of the house this day. Ah, but it’s a terrible 
business all round ! Poor Master Ernest ! Dear boy, 
there cannot be any truth in all that jargon. I would 
like to horsewhip the scoundrel who has goo him into 
trouble round the college quadrangle !’ 

‘ I am certain it is all a mistake,’ replied Mrs. Fair- 
field, much moved by the quaint little doctor’s 
sympathy ; ‘but as the Colonel cannot possibly go to 
Washborough, I must go, if you think I can safely 
leave him for so long. Tell me exactly the truth, 
please.’ 

‘ There would be no risk in your going, my dear 
madam, so far as the Colonel is concerned. I shall 
give him some soothing medicine, and he will have a 
quiet sleep. He must have plenty of beef-tea with a 
little brandy in it, and he will be all right by the even- 
ing. I shall come in and see him every three hours 
about. But I wish I could go and fetch your boy for 
you.’ 

‘ No ; thank you very much for the kind thought. 
You must not leave my husband, doctor.’ 

The medical interview was as satisfactory as Dr. 
O’Grady could expect. The Colonel had an iron con- 
stitution, which even the dangerous heart-symptoms, 


Digitized by Google 



THE SHADOW OF DEATH . 


167 


which for some time had been apparent, could not 
shatter at a single blow. He was made of the stern 
stuff which characterizes the heroes among British 
soldiers, and before Dr. O’Grady left he had rallied 
sufficiently to talk the matter over with his wife. 
They read the letter calmly together and discussed it ; 
and, as always happens, the sharing of anxiety with a 
sympathetic spirit in some measure disarmed it of its 
sting. 

Mrs. Fairfield said, with a smile, that she would go 
and fetch her darling boy home. It was a journey of 
four hours from Bridport to Washborough, and the 
trains were convenient both for going and returning. 

‘ Well, my love/ said the Colonel, € if I am not to go, 
I suppose it must be you. It is clear that Dr. 
Saunderson will not keep Ernest at any price. It’s a 
terrible business ; but you think there is some 
mistake ? You do not believe him guilty of lying 
and stealing V 

‘ Of course it is a mistake, dear. Ernest never told 
an untruth in his life ; and of course he never stole. 
It is all so ridiculous ! He knows he has only to write 
home whenever he wants money. He is the truest- 
hearted boy in the world. I am absolutely certain 
that it is all the work of that wicked boy Johnson, or 
of some other equally unprincipled person. I will go 
and bring him home/ 

‘ Very well, my love ; go and bring him home — go 
and bring him home/ 


Digitized by Google 



1 68 ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 

So Mrs. Fairfield left strict directions with the cook 
and housemaid to look well after the Colonel, and 
carry out Dr. O’Grady’s instructions most carefully, 
and send for him at any moment if any alarming 
symptoms occurred. They would naturally have done 
all that affection could suggest, for everyone in the 
household loved the dear old gentleman, to whom the 
hoary head was in good truth a crown of glory, 
because the condition attached by Solomon was 
abundantly fulfilled. 

There was ample time to catch the 11.30 train, and 
old John drove his honoured lady to the station. She 
reached Washborough at 3.30, and had an hour and a 
half before the train started for the return journey. 

Mrs. Fairfield drove at once to St. Andrew’s. 
Though she never for a moment doubted Ernest’s 
innocence, yet her heart somewhat misgave her in 
prospect of the meeting with Dr. Saunderson ; and as 
the fly climbed the steep hill through the town, pro- 
longed anxiety caused her much distress. But she 
was a brave woman, and fortified her soul by fervent 
prayer and the firm conviction of Ernest’s inno- 
cence. 

It was almost a relief when the fly drew up at the 
college entrance, and the deep-toned bell was rung. 
The pompous porter appeared, and Mrs. Fairfield 
alighted. The porter escorted her to the head-master’s 
house, and she was shown into the drawing-room. A 
few moments afterwards the Doctor entered, and bowed 


Digitized by Google 



THE SHADO W OF DEA TH 


169 


in a dignified manner to the lady before him. She 
explained that Colonel Fairfield was not well enough 
to undertake the journey, and so she had come in- 
stead. She did not allude to the subject of the 
letter. 

Dr. Saunderson at once asked whether Ernest had 
not already appeared at home, and when Mrs. Fair- 
field replied in the negative, he told her that Ernest 
had escaped from the room in which he had been 
confined last night, and though every inquiry had 
been made, the search so far had not been successful. 

4 1 telegraphed to Colonel Fairfield this morning, as 
soon as I ascertained that your son was not to be 
found, but I presume you left home before the telegram 
arrived/ 

This startling information was an additional stab 
to the mother’s wounded heart. By way of saying 
something, she asked : 

* Have you communicated with the police V 

‘ Yes, I did so at once, and also inquired whether 
a boy answering to his description had left the station 
by any of the early trains. None of the railway 
officials had seen him. It is a very grave and sad 
trouble, Mrs. Fairfield, and I am profoundly sorry 
for you and the Colonel. I did not enter into minute 
particulars of all that is proved against your son in 
my letter to your husband, thinking it better to 
speak than to write about it. But I hardly like to 
cause you further distress by entering into details/ 


Digitized by Google 



170 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


Mrs. Fairfield looked up as calmly as the state of 
her feelings would allow, and said : 

* Dr. Saunderson, you would never succeed in con- 
vincing me that my son told untruths and stole 
money. I know him well enough to feel certain 
that those accusations are false, whatever the evidence 
may be. I do not for a moment doubt that you have 
acted as you thought right, but I have no hesitation 
whatever in saying that your conclusions are incorrect. 
I can only hope that the matter may eventually be 
cleared up, so as to free him from your suspicions/ 

The Doctor answered : 

‘I wish I could think there was any chance of 
that, Mrs. Fairfield. Unhappily the proof admits of 
no question. I would gladly make allowance for a 
boy being led into temptations and falling, and even 
yielding to the momentary impulse of attempting to 
cover his faults by an untruth. But your son has 
been guilty of even grosser guilt / and the Doctor 
explained as briefly as possible the facts about the 
stolen money, the marked coins, and purses found in 
Ernest’s study. 

‘ 1 have no doubt/ said Mrs. Fairfield, ‘ that the 
marked coins were put into Ernest’s purse, and the 
purses put behind his books by some enemy of his, 
with a view to getting him into trouble. That is 
certainly more probable than that my son was guilty 
of such terrible crimes.’ 

The Doctor shook his head sadly, and said he 


Digitized by Google 



THE SHADOW OF DEATH 


171 

thought, if she knew the intricacies of the matter, 
that she would see how impossible it was to admit 
such inferences. 

‘Well, I thank you, Dr. Saunderson, for sparing 
me so much time. I must not trespass further, but 
perhaps you will kindly allow me to see Maurice 
Elton for a few moments before leaving V 

‘ Certainly, Mrs. Fairfield ; I will send him up at 
once. I sincerely hope we shall be able to trace 
your boy. The police have promised to spare no 
exertions, and I trust you will convey to Colonel 
Fairfield the assurance of my cordial sympathy with 
him in this most unhappy business/ 

‘ Thank you, Dr. Saunderson ; I will certainly do so. 
And now I will not detain you any further, as I must 
be going in a few minutes. The fly is waiting at the 
college gate, if you will kindly let me see Maurice 
Elton. Good-bye, and many thanks for all your 
kindness/ 

The Doctor withdrew, and Maurice was shortly 
afterwards shown into the drawing-room. Mrs. Fair- 
field held out both her hands, and took those of 
Maurice, and drawing him towards her, kissed him 
affectionately ; and then, before she could speak a 
word, her pent-up feelings mastered her entirely, and 
she wept burning tears of unutterable anguish. 

‘ Oh, dear Mrs. Fairfield,’ said Maurice, ‘I am so 
sorry for you ! What can I say to comfort you ? I 
am certain Ernest is innocent. It is all that infamous 


Digitized by Google 



172 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


fellow Johnson. I am sure it is. Poor Ernest ! Of 
course he ran away. How could he stand such cruel 
accusations ? How could he submit to such suspicion ? 
Please don’t cry. It will all come right ; I am sure 
it must in a very little while. It is terribly hard to 
bear, but Ernest never told a lie in his life !’ 

‘Thank you, dear Maurice. It does me so much 
good to hear you say that. It is true. But what 
has become of Ernest? What shall I say to his father? 
The letter this morning nearly killed him. He had 
another of those dreadful fainting-fits, and was un- 
conscious nearly an hour.’ 

‘Was he ? How dreadful ! But you must cheer 
him up, tod take heart yourself, Mrs. Fairfield. It 
must come right in the end. I understand Ernest’s 
feelings. He thought the Doctor would convince you 
that he had done all those horrid things, and he could 
not bear to see you grieved ; and so he thought he 
would just keep out of the way for a little, until the 
matter was cleared up.’ 

‘ Well, Maurice, it is God’s will. These troubles do 
not come by chance, and we must try and submit 
with patience.’ 

Poor Mrs. Fairfield! She had borne up against 
her feelings while the Doctor was present. Her 
indignation at the hasty and cruel injustice (as she 
thought) of his charges nerved her to the effort of 
holding back her sorrow. But now, in presence of 
Ernest’s dearest friend, with the memory of past 


Digitized by Google 



THE SHADOW OF DEATH 


173 


holidays so vividly before her mind, all attempts 
to restrain her grief were unavailing. 

The chiming of the clock upon the mantelpiece 
warned her that she must not stay longer ; so taking a 
fond farewell of Maurice, and asking him to come to 
Combe Grange as soon as he could after the end of 
term, she set out on her homeward journey. 

On reaching home she found the Colonel eagerly 
expecting her arrival, and it required all her tact to 
break the news of Ernest’s disappearance gently, so as 
not to agitate him afresh. 

Ah me ! the heartaches of parents for their children 
when things go wrong! Who can estimate their 
anguish ? Boys, think of those words of your duty, to 
LOVE, HONOUR AND SUCCOUR YOUR FATHER AND 

mother. The whole moral and point of this story is 
to show the trouble and misery brough t upon Ernest 
Fairfield, which flowed with an overwhelming flood 
upon his parents, by what ? Was it his own fault that 
he became the victim of a degraded, unprincipled boy? 
He had befriended him at first from generous motives ; 
the very force of circumstances had cemented intimacy. 
But what said the Great Teacher? ‘Be wise as 
serpents, harmless as doves.’ What said the wise 
king ? ‘ My son . . . enter not into the path of the 
wicked . . . avoid it, pass not by it, turn from it and 
pass away . . . their sleep is taken away unless they 
cause some to fall.’ The wisdom of serpents is needed 


Digitized by Google 



174 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


in the choice of friends at school. That bitter in- 
structor Experience may teach the force of this truth 
when it is too late — when remorse for ‘what might 
have been * is feeding on the heart like a worm that 
never dies. Johnson was a wicked boy, though at 
first Ernest didn't know it. Ernest, prompted in a 
measure by generous impulses — though influenced as 
well by a careless tendency towards foolishness, frivolity, 
and idleness — entered into his path, and eventually 
Johnson did not rest until he caused Ernest to fall. 
That was the substance of the preface, reserved for this 
place in the hope that it may not escape notice. 

Days and weeks and months passed on, and still 
there was no news of Ernest. The shadows gathered 
on Combe Grange. The mother's spirit fainted in her, 
and hope deferred made her heart sick. The brave 
old Colonel tried to appear cheerful before his wife, 
but the iron had entered into his soul, and his life was 
consumed with secret grief. The only diversion which 
seemed in any way to console him was his violoncello. 
He would play by the hour with Mrs. Fairfield, and it 
was her greatest pleasure to see the soft relief which 
music gave to his wearied soul. At other times he 
would sit by himself in the drawing-room, and play 
the sweet melancholy music — soothing melodies from 
Handel and Beethoven and other great masters. 

Or he would rest in his study with his Bible open 
upon his knees. There was one chapter which he 


Digitized by Google 



THE SHADOW OF DEATH \ 


175 


often read, that one which tells how David received 
the news of Absalom's death. The Colonel would 
repeat to himself over and over again the last verse, 
which, of all recorded utterances of a father's sorrow 
over his son, is surely the most full of affection, pathos, 
and regret : ‘ And the king was much moved, and went 
up to the chamber over the gate, and wept : and as he 
went, thus he said, 0 my son Absalom, my son, my 
son Absalom! Would God I had died for thee, 0 
Absalom, my son, my son f 

Dr. O’Grady came regularly to see the old soldier, 
and each time he looked more serious, and intimated 
to Mrs. Fairfield that grief seemed to have taken a 
deep hold upon his patient. His face and form grew 
more thin and wan. And so things went on. Maurice 
had spent a week of the Easter holidays at Combe 
Grange, and his society afforded some comfort to the 
sorrowing parents. The new life of spring passed on 
towards the full glory of summer, and in the last week 
of June, after a period of more pronounced feebleness, 
the wearied soul of the gallant old officer sank into its 
last sleep, and the last words he murmured were, ‘ My 
son ! my son !' 

They buried him in the beautiful churchyard at 
Beechenhurst, and all the village attended to pay the 
last tribute of respect to his memory. Mrs. Fairfield, 
completely broken down by all she had undergone, 
went to her sister, who lived at Oxford. 


Digitized by Google 



176 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


Combe Grange was deserted, the servants dis- 
charged, the furniture sold. Only old John remained 
to take charge of the empty house, which was at once 
advertised to be sold ; and only the antiquated violon- 
cello-case remained from the former furniture — a silent 
yet eloquent witness of the truth that death has not 
yet lost its sting, nor the grave its victory, and that the 
sting of death is sin. 


Digitized by Google 



CHAPTER XIV. 


SIN VICTUS. 

1 What V — that question at the close of the first 
chapter was asked in a tone of desperate agony by 
the boy calling himself ‘ Sin Vincent/ alias Edgar 
Johnson. As he asked it, he reeled and staggered and 
stumbled, and would have fallen had not the old 
sexton caught him by the arm. 

The sexton had told him how his master gradually 
sank and died, overpowered by his son's expulsion 
from school — that the son had disappeared and never 
been heard of — that his mother had almost lost her 
reason by all she had to bear — and then Johnson 
asked for the name of this family. 

The answer utterly overwhelmed him. At last the 
conviction of his sin was forced upon him — that long 
system of sin, ‘ vincent * hitherto, ‘ victus ’ at last. 
Suddenly was he brought face to face with the awful 
consequences of his cruel wickedness, while his heart 
still quailed under the terrors of the haunted house 
seen in the shadowy gloaming of late summer twilight. 
Johnson felt his very life-blood freeze, and all con- 
sciousness deserted him. 

12 


Digitized by Google 



ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 


178 

This had occurred half-way between the gate and 
the house of Bracken Dene. Old John was not equal 
to the effort of carrying the boy. He laid him down 
gently on the turf, and hobbled up to the house, and 
asked the man-servant to come and help carry him. 
Between them both Johnson was brought up, and 
the housekeeper lent her services in getting him to 
bed. Then she went to tell his uncle what had 
happened. 

Mr. St. Vincent had passed the golden bridge of 
life. He had never married, and was styled by some 
of his acquaintances a ‘ crusty old bachelor/ He was 
a martyr to gout, and his sufferings had made him 
irritable and fidgety. His only sister had married an 
officer in the Ceylon police-force, and their son, Edgar 
Johnson, was being educated in England. His parents 
showed little interest in his existence. They had 
arranged with the uncle to receive their boy in the 
holidays, and clothe and educate him at his discretion, 
a yearly sum being paid which covered all expenses 
and left a liberal margin for remuneration. Edgar 
was not the sort of nephew to win his uncle’s affec- 
tion. His uncle regarded him as a troublesome 
nuisance, and would have resigned the charge had 
it not been for the pecuniary profit. Under these 
circumstances Johnson naturally looked upon himself 
as an outcast, homeless and friendless; he had no 
self-respect, and the evil propensities of his nature 
grew unchecked. ’ 


Digitized by Google 



SIN VICTUS. 


m 


Mrs. Burridge knocked at her master’s door and re- 
ceived a gruff command to enter. 

‘ Sorry to interrupt you, sir, but Master Edgar is 
took bad. I’ve put him to bed, sir, and done every- 
think as I can ; but be don’t seem to come round. 
Had I better send for the doctor V 
‘ Humph ! what’s the matter ? Stuffed himself with 
poisonous messes ? Send for the doctor, and don’t 
bother me about him any more.’ 

Dr. O’Grady was sent for, and found Johnson be- 
ginning to recover consciousness — moaning and tossing 
restlessly in bed, and in a very feverish condition. He 
told the housekeeper to keep him warm, and sit up 
with him, and give him milk if he was thirsty, and he 
would call in the morning. He 7 did not see Mr. St. 
Yinceno that, evening. 

Mrs. Burridge had a disquieting night of it. The 
boy was in a highly excitable nervous state in the 
intervals of drowsy slumber. He would lie dozing 
for perhaps a quarter of an hour, and then start up 
and mutter and scream out, and try to kick the clothes 
off. He did not know the housekeeper. Then he 
would stare round with a wild, agonized expression, 
and scream out, ‘ Take it away ! Take away that 
horrible coffin! Why don’t they take it away? I 
can’t stand it !’ and he became so violent that it re- 
quired Mrs. Burridge’s whole strength to keep him 
down. He became calmer between these paroxysms, 
and towards dawn fell into an uneasy sleep. 

12—2 


Digitized by Google 



180 ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 

Dr. O’Grady paid his visit about eight o’clock, and 
found the boy terribly distressed, with the fever con- 
siderably heightened. He saw Mr. St. Vincent, and 
told him he feared the boy was ill with brain-fever, 
and possibly it might be a long and serious illness. 
Mr. St. Vincent was in a great rage. 

* Hang the young brute ! What does he mean by 
giving me all this bother ? Isn’t it enough to be 
saddled with him when he’s well i I will not have 
him laid up here, doctor. I am leaving this out- 
landish place next week. Suggest something ; can’t 
I send him to the hospital ?’ 

‘ No, sir, that would hardly do. But I can find a 
woman in the village, no doubt, who would be glad to 
nurse him in her house, and I could drive him there 
and look after him. There woulu he no risk in that ; 
but a journey to the hospital would be unad- 
visable.’ 

‘ Anything. I don’t care what you do with him — 
poison him by mistake, if you like — it would be a 
kindness to his parents. I put the case in your hands, 
doctor. His parents are well off, and will pay hand- 
somely. Hold me responsible, and make what 
arrangements you please, only don’t worry me about 
him any more.’ 

‘ I will see to it being done for his comfort, sir, and 
will not trouble you further than is necessary.’ 

Dr. O’Grady drove off, and had no difficulty in 
coming to terms with a homely old woman, Mrs. 


Digitized by Google 



SINVICTUS. 181 

Wright, to nurse Johnson in her own cottage. It 
was a pretty cottage with gay flowers in the front 
garden, and scrupulously clean. The room intended 
for his patient had a large bay window, and all the 
domestic appliances seemed suitable for the purpose. 
He saw the mattress and bedding set round the 
kitchen Are to air, and saying he would bring his 
patient in two hours’ time, he went off and ordered in 
necessary supplies. 

At eleven o’clock the doctor’s carriage drew up in 
front of Dame Wright’s cottage. The man-servant 
from Bracken Dene assisted the doctor in carrying 
Johnson up to the bedroom. He was so enveloped 
in blankets that all attempts at resistance were pre- 
vented ; but it had been hot work packing him up, 
and both men felt as if they had had a hard day’s 
work after the boy was put to bed. 

Long days of wearisome illness followed. There 
were violent fits of delirium, and evidence of vivid 
hallucinations harassing the disordered brain of the 
unhappy bry. One afternoon an itinerant organ- 
grinder visited the village, and that seemed to start a 
fresh train of ideas. All through the following night 
he seemed haunted by the weird strains of ghostly 
music. His appeals were heart-rending to take it 
away. Mrs. Wright was well-nigh distraught with 
constant nursing. She occasionally got a neighbour 
to come and take her place in the sick-room, while 
she lay down to get a little sleep ; but it was a dreary 


Digitized by Google 



1 82 ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 

time for her — hour after hour to listen to the restless 
meanings of the sufferer. 

One day during the height of the illness, the sexton 
came to see how things were going on. He had been 
much perplexed about the strange attack which had 
so suddenly struck down the boy. He felt some 
qualms that he was to blame for taking him over the 
house. It was that which seemed to have started the 
mischief. Mrs. Wright had always been friendly to 
old John, and now she was only too glad to find him 
sympathetic in her troubles. On this occasion J ohnson 
appeared to have the only lucid interval that marked 
the progress of his illness. Old John had gone up to 
the bed, and said, in as cheerful a voice as he could 
assume : 

‘ I be terrible sorry to see you so low, young 
master.’ 

Johnson moved wearily and looked at him. It was 
a long look, and there seemed in it more of the light 
of reason than had been seen there since the illness 
began. Then J ohnson talked : 

‘What was his name ? Fairfield — Ernest Fairfield 
... I got him expelled. ... I killed his father and 
drove his mother mad. . . . I’ve been ill, but I know 
what I am saying. ... I told lies about him. ... I 
made them believe he lied and stole. ... I tell you 
it was all my doing. ... I stole the purses. ... I 
marked Fairfield's money. . . . Are you listening ? . . . 
I copied his “ jambics ” and put in bosh. ... I went 


Digitized by Google 



SIN V ICTUS. 183 

into the class-room at night, and set the wires and 
cracker.’ 

Then the effort seemed to bewilder his senses again. 
He sprang up and waved his arms with frantic energy, 
and shrieked out : 

‘ Take it away ! take it away ! I won’t ! I won’t ! 
Oh, they’re cutting me — they’re burning me — they’re 
dragging me down to hell! Take it away!’ and he 
fell back exhausted, and lay moaning and tossing in 
miserable anguish. 

When old J ohn got back to the Grange, he took 
out pen and paper, and wrote down all he could 
remember of what J ohnson had said. The paper was 
clearly written, and only one sentence at all puzzled 
me to explain — the words in the original were : 

‘ I coppered his jamsticks and pudding broth.’ • 

Later on that afternoon, when Dr. O’Grady paid his 
visit, Johnson’s restlessness had assumed more violent 
symptoms. The doctor was proceeding to feel his 
pulse and take his temperature ; and the boy resisted 
with such energy that he sent the doctor sprawling on 
the floor, and then jumped out of bed with the ap- 
parent intention of attacking him. Johnson, in his 
night-shirt, advanced towards his foe, hitting out 
lustily; and there followed a ludicrous scene. The 
little Irishman, active as a gibbon, picked himself up 
in a trice. He thought it might do his patient no 
harm, and possibly relieve his brain to indulge the 
pugilistic propensities, which appeared for the moment 


Digitized by Google 



1 84 ERNEST FAIRFIELD . 

uppermost in his disordered mind. In an instant, 
then, he slipped off his coat, and doubled up his shirt- 
sleeves, and assumed an attitude of self-defence, 
dancing about on tiptoe, and jabbering his comical 
Irish jargon. 

‘ Och, sure, ye miserable spalpeen ! By the living 
Moses, ye want to hit me in the eye entirely ! St. 
Patrick and old Ireland ! Paddy O’Grady’s the boy 
for a row ! Blackthorns and Donnybrook Fair are the 
jockeys for him ! Come on f 

Of course the doctor merely contented himself with 
parrying the furious blows aimed at him, though 
making feints of retaliating. 

‘ Och, there’s one for your blinker, ye scoundrel ! 
Take that — and that ! Faith ! the claret’s spouting. 

. . . Ah ! blood, fire, and murder !’ 

This last exclamation, pitched in a shriller key than 
the rest, was due to the finishing stroke of this strange 
scene. For Patrick O’Grady, backing before his 
antagonist, came against a great box which stood in 
the recess of the bay window. The lid just caught 
him in the bend of the knees, and the comical Irish- 
man found himself tripped up and deposited in the 
recess, with his legs helplessly extended over the box. 
This strangely novel treatment of a patient suffering 
from brain fever proved more efficacious for the time 
being than any remedies which the doctor’s skill had 
as yet suggested. Johnson, apparently satisfied by 
the discomfiture of his foe, went back quietly to bed, 


Digitized by Google 



SIN VICTUS . 185 

drew the clothes over him and fell into a more peace- 
ful sleep than he had enjoyed since he was ill. 
***** 

It was a soft bright morning in September — just 
that hardly perceptible chill in the air which breathes 
the first melancholy intimation that summer is gone. 
Mrs. Fairfield, who had now composed herself to 
resignation for a lifelong sorrow, had taken a small 
house in Oxford to be near her sister ; and Maurice, 
who had been spending the holidays with her, came 
into the drawing-room dressed in boating flannels. 
Mrs. Fairfield enjoyed the river, and Maurice was 
never so happy as when rowing her about. She was 
standing by the window that opened on the lawn, and 
turned towards him with the same sweet loving look 
as of old, even more beautiful under the chastening 
influence of grief. 

4 Maurice dear, there’s a telegram for you. I hope 
your aunt does not want to take you away from me V 
Maurice tore open the envelope. His face turned 
white, and then with a gasp he read out the words : 

4 Ernest Fairfield is at Beechenhurst — go to him at 
once* 

4 Oh, Mrs. Fairfield, thank God !’ 

He sprang forward and threw his arms round her 
neck, and from the mother’s eyes tears of joy too 
deep for utterance flowed fast and free. They sat 
down on the sofa, and read the telegram many times, 
and then Maurice jumped up and sang and laughed 


Digitized by Google 



1 86 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


and cried, and could not control the overwhelming 
rapture of his joy. 

i Off I go at once. Oh, where’s Bradshaw ? When’s 
there a train ? How glorious ! Oh, Mrs. Fairfield, 
isn’t it splendid ?’ 

The mention of Bradshaw gave a practical turn to 
the entrancing news. The page was soon found: 
there was a train within the hour. Maurice hastened 
to change his flannels, and having put up a few things 
in a bag, he bounded off to the station, and was soon 
speeding on his way. 

Ernest had landed at Bristol the day before, and 
travelled at once to Bridport. He wore a loose 
Inverness cape and muffled his face in a comforter, 
and slipped out of Bridport station and through the 
town without being recognised. He would not ask a 
question of anyone, and turned into the fields to wend 
his way home by the dear familiar paths. 

With a nervous wonder and yearning in his heart 
he drew near the village. The sun was setting; the 
church tower and thatched roofs of the cottages stood 
up among the trees flushed with the glory of his de- 
parting rays. The Grange was hidden behind the hill. 
He turned into the churchyard. Was it altered since 
last he saw it ? . . . What was that beautiful new 
white marble cross ? 

*■ * * He He 

The old sexton had been sweeping out the church, 
and after locking the door he went to have a last look 


Digitized by Google 



SIN VICTUS. 


1 87 


at his dear master’s grave. His surprise was great to 
see a figure kneeling with arms thrown around the 
cross. Old John started, and went nearer. 

‘Master Ernest! Dear Master Ernest! God be 
praised for all His mercies ! You’ve come back once 
more — you’ve come back !’ 

Ernest rose from his knees, and grasped the old 
man’s hand with passionate affection, and said in a 
voice broken by choking sobs : 

‘ Tell me all about it, John.’ 

He took the old man’s arm, and walked back with 
him to the deserted Grange, and heard everything. 

Maurice drove with all haste from Bridport to 
Beechenhurst. Oh, for the sorrow and joy of meeting 
between the two friends ! As soon as Ernest was 
assured of his mother’s welfare, he told Maurice the 
bare outlines of what had happened since the night 
he escaped from St. Andrew’s ; how, for very shame, 
he dared not go home with the stain of such awful 
suspicion upon him ; how he had gone to Bristol and 
sailed in the Calypso to the West Indies ; how the 
good captain treated him with all kindness, and on 
landing at Jamaica got him work in one of the dock 
offices ; how he remained there while the ship went 
to San Salvador ; how on its return he accepted the 
captain’s offer to take him back to England. 

‘ And now,’ said Ernest, ‘ I find my dear father dead, 
and the old home deserted ! Oh, Maurice, will God 
ever forgive me V 


Digitized by Google 



ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


1 88 

They could not return to Oxford that day, and so 
had some hours of daylight at their disposal. 

They called upon Dr. O’Grady, who was delighted 
to see them, and congratulated Ernest on his return. 
He tried to comfort him for his father’s death by 
saying that the old man had been gradually failing 
for some time past, and that in the natural course of 
things he would but have had a lingering period of 
decrepitude. 

1 And so/ said Dr. O’Grady, ‘ my unhappy patient 
was the cause of all your trouble, Ernest ! Well, well ! 
it’s a queer world we live in ! One thing is certain, 
he will never be able to hurt you again, nor to ask 
your forgiveness for the past. God have mercy on 
him ! I should like you to see him, Ernest, for 
possibly the sight of you might kindle a spark of 
intelligence. Should you mind ?’ 

* No, doctor ; I will see him.’ 

‘ That’s right. It is strange that the only time he 
knew what he was saying was that afternoon when he 
told the sexton of his infamous conduct. Ah, my 
boy ! you have been the victim of abominable lies ; 
but he is paid out with interest.’ 

It was a sad interview. Ernest and Maurice accom- 
panied the doctor to the cottage. J ohnson was awake, 
moaning and talking to himself. Ernest stood look- 
ing at him a long time. He took his hand. Johnson 
turned his vacant eyes upon him, and then on Maurice. 
From one to the other he looked, but never a ray of 


Digitized by Google 



S/N VICTUS. 


189 


intelligence lighted up his countenance. Dr. O’Grady 
shook his head and shrugged his shoulders. Neither 
of the boys spoke. And so they left him. 

4 Poor fellow/ said the doctor, ‘ there's no hope for 
him : no prospect but that of idiotcy for the rest of 
his life f 

Maurice and Ernest had time for a walk up Lewesdon 
Hill that evening. When they reached the top, the 
sun, near to setting, was behind a great purple-black 
cloud, his amber rays spreading upwards in broad 
shafts of light. The bluff escarpment of Pilsden 
loomed in shadow. The boys stood with bare heads 
watching the splendid effect. The south-west wind, 
which brings the waves in gigantic volume upon the 
Chesil beach, was blowing strong and free. 

4 Maurice/ said Ernest, 4 have you forgotten the seal 
of the covenant V 

And Ernest took it out of his pocket, now entirely 
worn down to half its original thickness, and quite 
smooth. 

i I remember what you used to say up here about 
mother. I have at last really learnt what you meant ; 
and henceforth, by God’s help, my life shall be devoted 
to her. Here, by Frank’s tree, I promise solemnly to 
love, honour, and succour her to my fullest power, 
and may God strengthen me to keep that promise !' 

Farewell, Ernest Fairfield ! Life is before you. 
Sobered, chastened, and corrected, but not given over 


Digitized by Google 



190 


ERNEST FAIRFIELD. 


unto death ; bent, but not broken by the blast, may 
God indeed strengthen you to keep that promise ! 


Boy, ere the cares of life lie dim 
On thy young spirit’s wings, 

Now, in thy morn, forget not Him 

From whom each pure thought springs. 

So, in the onward vale of tears, 

Where’er thy path may be, 

When strength hath bowed to evil years, 
He will remember thee. 


THE END. 


BILLING A SONS. PRINTERS, GUILDFORD. 

Q 35819788357. 


Digitized by Google 




FREDERICK WARNE & CO.’S 

New Books for Young People. 

gfahleg ^tbrare. 

AN ENTIRELY NEW SERIES FOR YOUNG READERS. 
In crown 8vo., cloth gilt. With Illustrations, price 2s. each. 

The Author’s name is the best guide to the contents of the book 
The volumes of the Stanley Library will be written by such 
popular authors as Dr. Gordon Stables, R.N. ; the Rev. A. N. 
Malan, M. A. ; Mr. R. Andr6 ; and Mr. W. J. Gordon, and will 
consist of stirring Stories of School Life, Adventures on Land and 
Sea, and other fictions which are interesting to boys of all ages. 

The best artists have been employed for the illustrations, which 
are of the highest class, and the volumes are well printed and bound. 


1— THE KING’S BELL TOWER: A Romance of the 

Olden Time. By R. Andr 6. With Original Illustrations by A. W. 
Cooper. 

2— THE TREASURE FINDER: A Story of a Lost Gal- 

leon. By W. J. Gordon. With Original Illustrations by W. S. 
Stacey. 

3- JACK LOCKE: A Tale of The War and The Wave. 

By Dr. Gordon Stables, R.N. With Original Illustrations by F. A. 
Fraser. 

4 - ERNEST FAIRFIELD; or. Two Terms at St. An- 
drew’s. By the Rev. A. N. Malan, M.A. With Original Illustrations by 
F. A. Fraser. 


@t>e $or&on 

Largo Fcap. 8vo., cloth gilt, price Is. each. 

The Volumes in this Library each contain upwards of Thirty Illustrations, 
are bound in an attractive form, and will be found far in advance of anything 
yet published at this price. 

1— THE WRECKING OF THE ‘SAMPHIRE/ By Henry 

Frith. 

2— THE OUTPOST. By R. Andr£. 

3— UNDER THE AVALANCHE. By W. J. Gordon. 

4— THE GUN-ROOM HEROES. By Arthur Knight. 

5— THE KING’S THANE. By W. J. Gordon. 

6— EXPELLED: A Story of Eastcote School. By Paul 
Blake. 

7— EBB AND FLOW. By R. Andr£. 

8— THE MAJOR’S CAMPAIGN. By Capt. J. Percy Groves. 
0— THE PURSUED. By W. J. Gordon. 


Digitized by Google 



New Books for Young People— Continued. 


In crown 8vo., cloth gilt, bevelled boards, price 3s. 6d. 

BURNHAM BREAKER. 

By HOMER GREENE, 

Author of * The Blind Brother,’ etc. With Original Illustrations by A. W. 
Cooper. 


A CHARMING CHILDRENS STORY. 

In crown 8vo., cloth gilt, bevelled boards, price 8s. 6d. 

PARTED. 

By ANGELICA SELBY. 

With 14 Original Illustrations by E. G. Reynolds. 

In crown 8vo., cloth gilt, bevelled boards, gilt edges, price 2s. 6d. With 
Original Illustrations. 

GRANNY’S BOY; or, Not Kin but Kind. 

By THOMAS KEYWORTH, 

Author of ‘Mistress June,’ ‘The Naresborough Victory,’ etc. 

Also uniform with ‘ Granny’s Boy,’ price 2s. 6d. With Original Illustrations. 

A LONG DELAY. 

By THOMAS KEYWORTH. 

In square 16mo., cloth gilt. Illustrated, price Is. 

THE BLIND BROTHER. 

A Story of the Mines. 

By HOMER GREENE. 

‘ It is a pleasure to think of anvthing at once so entertaining, so healthful, 
and so artistic, falling into the hands of youthful readers.’— The Critic, New 
York. 


CHARMING STORIES BY CECILIA SELBY LOWNDES. 

In small square crown 8vo., cloth gilt, price 2s. each. With Original Illus- 
trations by E. Scannell. 

LINFORD GREEN. 

LENA GRAHAM. 

NEW HONOURS. 


N.B. — Send us your address, and we will post you free a copy of our complete 
Catalogue containing the titles of nearly 3,000 publications representing 
nearly all branches of literature. 


London and New York : FREDERICK WARNE & CO. 


Digitized by Google 




Digitized by Google 


Digitized by 




iQogle 






