This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 
to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 
to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 
are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 
publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 

We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 


at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/ 


Sd^i^ait© 


v^m^ 


r»^x.  Ti 


JOHNSON'S 
FIRST  AID  MANUAL 


+ 


•  •  •     • 


•  •  .   • 


•  •  •  • 


Suggestions  for  Prompt  Aid  to  the  Injured 
in  Accidents  and  Emergencies 


ILLUSTRATED 


Edited  by 
FRED  B.  KILMER 


THIRD  EDITION 


Published  by 

JOHNSON  &  JOHNSON 

New  Brunswick,  N.  J.,  U.  S.  A. 

1903 

3 


INTRODUCTION 

A  noted  surgical  writer  has  said  that  the  fate  of  an  injured  person  depends 
upon  the  acts  of  the  pei*son  into  whose  hands  he  flnst  falls.  The  noeosBily  and 
value  of  prompt  and  eflQcient  first  aid  in  injuries  ntseds  no  comment.  During  the 
war  with  Spain,  in  the  Philippine  campaigns,  and  in  the  operations  in  South 
Africa,  it  has  been  demonstrated  that  by  the  prompt  application  of  first  aid  dress- 
ings, the  loss  of  life  and  limb  has  been  reduced  to  the  lowest  ratio  in  the  whole 
history  of  warfare. 

In  the  time  of  an  accident,  the  presence  of  a  person  with  knowledge  of  what 
to  do,  and  the  presence  of  mind  to  carry  such  knowledge  into  effect,  is  invaluable. 
The  design  of  this  Manual  is  to  give  suggestions  that  will  tend  to  enable  those 
who  follow  them  to  render  eflflcient  first  aid  in  an  emergency.  Tliese  suggestions 
are  based  upon  the  teachings  of  modern  surgical  practice. 

The  importance  of  avoiding  manipulation  and  handling  of  an  injured  pai*t,  the 
immediate  application ^f  4* 8U£^i<^ll}C  clQftri  covering,  die  placing  of  the  Injured 
person  in  a  poi^tirui  of  *(§oniiJ){t»-alid  abovo  5ill,*!th*eb  prohipt  summoning  of  a  sur- 
geon, are  mado  peramottnl.*  --^  :  ..:      m.l  V  I  C*  \mml 

These  suggestions  are  not  intended  to  be  elaborate.  ExtensivencKs  has  In  all 
cases  been  sacrificed  to  simplicity.  Much  that  is  ordinarily  embraced  in  more 
pretentious  volumes,  has  been  omitted  In  ah  effort  to  select  that  which  Is  most  es- 
sential, simple  and  most  helpful.  Technical  terms  have  been  avoided ;  no  attempt 
has  been  made  to  teach  anatomy  or  physiology  or  to  give  instruction  in  the  prin- 
ciples or  practice  of  surgery. 

This  Manual  is  not  issued  solely  upon  the  authority  of  the  publishers,  nor 
with  the  intent  to  advocate  any  particular  system.  In  its  preparation  the  actual 
experiences  of  first  aid,  so  successful  on  the  battlefield  in  the  late  wars,  have  been 
applied  to  civil  conditions.  The  editor  has  had  the  assistance  of  surgeons  of  long 
experience  in  railway,  mining,  factory,  police  and  ambulance  service  in  this  coun- 
try and  abroad ;  has  studied  the  systems  in  use  in  everj'  part  of  the  world.  From 
all  these  various  sources,  he  has  attempted  to  select  the  best  and  has  placed  them 
here  in  the  simplest  and  plainest  form.  It  is  a  first  aid  mauual  for  every  day  use 
and  from  It  any  one  who  can  read  or  understand  a  picture  can  gain  information 
which  will  be  of  service  in  emergency. 

The  illustrations  are  a  most  important  feature.  They  can  be  understood 
without  the  aid  of  the  text.  For  the  most  part,  they  were  made  expressly  for  this 
work. 

The  editors  and  publishers  desire  to  thank  the  many  persons  who  have  so 
ably  assisted  in  the  preparation  of  this  Manual. 


INTRODUCTION  TO  THE  THIRD  EDITION, 

The  first  and  second  editions  of  this  Manual  were  received  with  marked  ap- 
probation by  the  medical  and  surgical  profession,  by  nurses,  and  by  First  Aid 
workers  in  general.  These  editions  having  become  exhausted,  anotlier  edition 
has  become  necessary.  In  issuing  this  third  edition  a  revision  of  the  Manual  lias 
been  made,  correcting  some  slight  inaccuracies  previously  over-looked,  together 
with  the  addition  of  new  matter. 

The  editors  and  publishers  are  again  Indebted  to  the  many  workers  who  havci 
so  kindly  commended  this  Manual,  and  whose  helpful  suggestions  have  been  of 
great  assistance  in  the  revision  of  this  third  edition. 

Johnson  &  Johnson, 
New  Brunswick,  N.  J.,  U.  S.  A. 


OopyrlRht,  1901,  by  JohriHon  k  Johnson 
Copyright,  190:),  by  JoliiiH^n  k  Johnson 


MS 


HOW  TO  USE  THE  MANUAL 


It  is  suggested  that  all  persons  who  are  liable,  at  any  time,  to  be  called  upon 
to  take  charge  of  an  injured  person,  should  familiarize  themselves  with  this  Man- 
ual and  with  the  material  which  is  suggested  herein  to  be  applied  in  case  of  acci- 
dents. The  best  way  to  become  familiar  with  the  Manual  is  to  read  the  directions 
carefully,  and  then  to  take  up  a  study  of  the  various  suggestions  in  detail,  with  a 
view,  as  far  as  possible,  to  impress  the  most  important  points  upon  the  memory, 
and  in  each  instance  to  procure  the  article  which  the  Manual  suggests  should  be 
applied.  It  is  further  suggested  that  the  user  of  this  Manual  should  not  wait  for 
an  accident  to  occur  before  testing  his  ability  to  properly  handle  the  same — prac- 
tice makes  perfect. 

The  reader  can  practice  upon  himself,  or  invoke  the  friendly  aid  of  one  or 
more  persons,  allowing  one  to  aist  as  the  injured  person,  the  others  carefully  fol- 
lowing the  instructions  given  in  the  Manual.  For  the  purpose  of  practice,  ban- 
dages, etc.,  should  be  procured  and  actually  applied.  (Bandages  or  other  articles 
used  for  practice  purposes  should  never  be  applied  to  wounds.  They  should  be 
used  for  practice  only.) 

Familiarity  with  the  contents  and  use  of  the  First  Aid  Packet  described  in 
this  Manual  is  of  prime  importance,  as  the  application  of  the  dressings  in  this 
package  is  generally  the  very  best  thing  that  can  be  done.  Practice  with  the 
triangular  bandage  and  the  cotton  roller  bandage,  as  in  manner  shown  in  the  illus- 
trations, will  be  very  helpful. 

In  factories,  mines,  shops  and  other  service,  the  Manual  and  all  First  Aid 
material  should  be  placed  in  charge  of  the  superintendent,  foreman,  or  other  per- 
son who  is  constantly  on  duty  at  such  places  where  accidents  are  likely  to  occur. 
In  some  establishments  such  a  person  is  provided  with  a  badge,  in  order  that  all 
persons  may  know  to  whom  to  apply  for  aid. 

The  Manual  should  be  kept  hanging  up  or  placed  in  a  conspicuous  place,  that 
it  may  always  be  the  fii-st  thing  sought  in  emergency.  All  material  should  be 
kept  in  a  closed  box  or  closet  to  exclude  dust  or  dirt.  Unnecessary  handling 
should  not  be  permitted.  Dressings  should  always  be  procured  in  sealed  pack- 
ages and  should  not  be  opened  or  the  contents  exposed,  except  just  at  the  time 
of  use.  (All  wound  dressings  should  be  such  as  are  known  to  be  surgically  clean, 
aseptic,  and  be  put  up  in  sealed  packages  especially  for  this  purpose.  If  touched 
they  are  no  longer  fit  to  be  applied  to  a  wound.) 

While  this  Manual  was  primarily  designed  to  accompany  Johnson's  Accident 
Case,  and  the  instructions  principally  directed  to  the  use  of  articles  contained 
therein,  the  Manual  may  be  used  in(lei>endently  of  this  particular  case,  as  the  in- 
structions and  the  illustrations  ap[)ly  to  dr.Sbings  which  may  be  procured  at  auy 
drug  store. 


S8H20 


Directions  for  the  preparation  of  appliances  are  included,  so  that  they  can 
easily  be  prepared  from  materials  found  wherever  the  accident  may  occun 

No  instructions  in  anatomy  or  physiology  are  given  in  this  Manual — such 
knowledge  is  not  deemed  absolutely  essential,  either  to  the  use  of  the  Manual  or 
to  the  application  of  First  Aid.  The  reader  who  may  have  occasion  to  practice 
First  Aid  is  recommended  to  secure,  under  the  advice  of  his  physician,  some  sim- 
ple text-book  upon  the  subject,  and  from  such  a  source  obtain  a  general  outline  of 
the  structure  and  functions  of  the  human  body,  including  in  a  general  way  the 
bones,  muscles,  arteries  and  veins,  the  circulation,  respiration  and  nervous  sys- 
tem. By  a  study  of  the  illustrations  in  this  Manual  (and  the  more  so  by  refer- 
ence to  any  work  upon  physiology)  the  general  direction  of  the  main  arteries  and 
the  points  where  the  circulation  may  be  aiTested  by  pressure  or  by  the  applica- 
tion of  the  means  outlined  in  these  pages  may  be  gained.  The  reader  is  urged  by 
all  means  to  locate  these  points  on  himself  or  an  assistant,  that  he  may  be  able 
actually  to  apply  the  methods  given  in  this  Manual  for  the  arresting  of  hemorr- 
hage. 

Of  particular  importance  is  a  working  knowledge  of  what  to  do  in  great  emer- 
gencies, hence  the  sections  of  the  Manual  headed:  "The  First  Things  to  Do," 
•' Shock,"  "Bleeding,"  **  Burns  and  Scalds,"  "Fractures,"  "Wounds,"  "Drown- 
ing," "  Apoplexy,"  "  Epilepsy,"  "  Fainting,"  "  Bites  of  Rabid  Animals,"  "  Poisons," 
etc.,  should  receive  the  most  painstaking  study. 

Finally,  the  layman  into  whose  hands  this  Manual  may  fall  should  ever  bear 
in  mind  that  however  great  or  small  may  be  the  emergency,  nothing  can  take  the 
place  of  sending  for  a  surgeon.  "  A  little  knowledge  is  a  dangerous  thing."  "Be- 
ware of  an  axe  in  the  hands  of  a  child."  All  of  the  First  Aid  Manuals  ever  printed 
if  taken  together  could  not  transform  a  hiyman  into  a  surgeon.  Hence,  it  is  of 
great  value  to  acquire  the  art  of  knowing  when  to  cease  all  attempts  at  first  aid, 
and  place  the  patient  in  tlie  hands  of  a  surgeon. 


THE  FIRST  THINGS  TO  DO. 

Keep  cool. 

Summon  a  surgeon  at  once. 

Send  a  written  message,  describing  the  accident  and  injmy,  if 
possible,  in  order  that  the  surgeon  may  know  what  instruments  and 
remedies  to  bring. 

Remove  the  patient  to  a  quiet,  airy  place,  where  the  temperature 
is  comfortable,  but  never  to  an  engine  room. 

Keep  bystanders  at  a  distance. 

Handle  the  patient  gently  and  quietly. 

Arrange  the  injured  person's  body  in  a  comfortable  position; 
injuries  to  the  head  require  that  the  head  be  raised  higher  than  the 
level  of.  the  body  ;  when  practical,  lay  the  patient  on  his  back  with  the 
limbs  straightened  out  in  their  usual  natural  position.  Unless  the 
head  be  injured,  have  the  head  on  the  same  level  as  the  body. 
Loosen  the  collar,  waist-band  and  belts.  If  the  patient  should  be  faint, 
have  his  head  rather  lower  than  his  feet.  If  the  arm  or  leg  be  injured, 
it  may  be  slightly  raised  and  laid  on  a  cushion  or  pillow. 

Watch  carefully  if  unconscious. 

If  vomiting  occurs,  turn  the  patient's  body  on  one  side  with  the  head 
low  so  that  the  matters  vomited  may  not  go  into  the  lungs. 

If  a  wound  be  discovered  in  a  part  covered  by  the  clothing,  cut  the 
clothing  in  the  seam.  Only  remove  sufficient  clothing  to  uncover  and 
inspect  the  wound.  In  case  of  burns,  pour  lukewarm  water  containing 
a  little  baking  soda,  over  the  clothing,  before  attempting  to  remove  it. 

All  wounds  should  be  covered  and  dressed  as  quickly  as  possible. 
(See  instructions  elsewhere  in  this  manual).  If  a  severe  bleeding 
should  occur,  see  that  this  is  stopped,  if  possible,  before  the  wound  is 
finally  dressed.     (See  Bleeding). 

Do  not  touch  the  wounds  with  the  hands  either  during  examina- 
tion, or  while  applying  dressings,  unless  they  have  been  previously 
made  surgically  clean,  (as  described  under  wounds). 

After  dressing  a  wound,  do  no  more  to  the  patient  unless  necessary 
to  restore  him  to  consciousness  or  relieve*  faintness. 

If  suffering  from  shock  (See  next  section),  place  him  in  a  comfort- 
able position  and  await  tbe  arrival  of  the  surgeon. 

Do  not  attempt  to  do  loo  tx^scVi^ 


Surgical  Shock, 


SURGICAL  SHOCK. 

This  is  common  after  very  serious  railway  or  machinery  accidents, 
gunshot  wounds,  etc. 

The  signs  of  shock  are  a  cool,  clammy  skin,  constant  vomiting  and 
retching,  weak,  rapid  pulse,  sighing  or  irregular  breathing,  half -opened 
eyelids,  dilated  pupils,  dullness  of  mind,  and  sometimes  insensibility  or 
coma.     Send  for  a  surgeon  at  once. 

If  possible,  place  the  patient  in  a  warm  bed,  or  wrapped  in  blankets 
with  the  head  low. 

Eemove  clothing  carefully;  cut  if  necessary  to  save  delay. 

Use  the  first  aid  dressings  and  bind  up  wounds  and  broken  bones. 

Apply  heat  to  the  whole  body,  especially  to  the  region  of  the 
heart,  the  pit  of  the  stomach  and  extremities.  This  can  be  done  with 
heated  bottles  of  water,  rubber  water-bags,  hot  bricks,  blankets  and 
flannels  wrung  out  of  hot  water,  in  fact  anything  hot  that  may  be 
convenient,  being  careful  to  wrap  hot  articles  in  blankets  so  as  not 
t^i  blister  or  burn  the  skin.  Do  not  apply  heat  to  the  head.  At  the 
same  time,  give  hot  drinks,  especially  black  coffee ;  also  aromatic  spirits 
of  ammonia  in  half  teaspoonful  doses,  well  diluted  with  water. 

If  stimulants  are  necessary,  use  hot  water,  tea,  coffee,  beef- tea 
broth  or  milk.  Do  not  give  whisky,  brandy,  or  other  spirituous  liquors 
except  by  special  direction  of  the  surgeon. 

If  the  surgeon  will  not  arrive  for  some  time  and  the  patient  does 
not  revive,  and  provided  there  is  no  severe  bleeding,  give  a  teaspoonful 
of  brandy  or  whisky  in  a  tablespoonf ul  of  hot  water  every  quarter  of 
an  hour,  until  the  patient  is  better.  Vomiting  may  be  relieved  by 
allowing  the  patient  to  sip  a  little  brandy  mixed  with  ice.  Do  not  use 
any  more  alcoholic  stimulants  than  are  necessary  on  account  of  the 
depressing,  effect  of  over-dosing. 

In  concussicm  of  the  brain  and  in  broken  skull,  and  in  compression 
of  the  brain,  which  resemble  shock,  also  in  apoplexy  and  in  severe 
bleeding,  give  no  stimulants  of  any  ]i:ind. 

Factories,  mines  and  railroads  should  have  at  hand  appliances  for 
treatment  of  shock,  and  persons  should  be  selected  and  given  instruc- 
tion as  to  their  use. 

la  Sttmmer  always  s^ve  the  Injured  person  a  j^fass  of  G>Id  "Waeer. 


Bleeding,  7 

BLEEDING. 

Abtebial. — (From  the  arteries.)  Color  of  blood  is  bright  red, 
comes  in  spurts  or  jets;  if  profuse,  this  form  is  very  dangerous  and  may 
destroy  life  in  a  few  minutes. 

Venous. — (From  the  veins)  blood  is  of  a  dark  color,  flows  out  or 
wells  up  freely  from  the  wound  in  a  steady  stream. 

Capillary. — (from  very  small  vessels)  Blood  slowly  oozes  out.  Dan- 
gerous if  continued,  but  is  easily  checked  as  a  rule. 

Treatment  in  all  cases  : 

Summon  a  surgeon  at  once. 

Have  the  patient  lie  down  in  a  horizontal  position,  usually  on  his 
back.     If  the  wound  is  in  a  limb,  elevate  the  limb. 

Cut  away  clothing  (following  seams)  to  expose  and  examine  wound. 

Apply  pressure  to  the  bleeding  points,  with  finger  covered  by  gauze, 
or  by  a  compress  of  gauze  kept  in  place  by  a  roller  bandage. 

Keep  the  patient  warm  by  artificial  heat  and  clothing,  hot  water 
bags,  etc. 

When  bleeding  has  ceased,  hot  drinks,  tea,  coffee,  milk,  etc.,  may 
be  given,  and  the  bandages,  if  very  tight,  may  be  cautiously  loosened. 

Keep  watch  for  recurrence  of  the  bleeding,  when  it  occurs,  tighten 
the  bandages  or  apply  pressure  directly,  as  before. 

In  arterial  bleeding,  when  wound  is  large  and  the  blood  comes  out 
in  spurts,  cover  your  fingers  or  thumb  with  several  thicknesses  of  the 
gauze  (taken  from  the  case),  and  make  pressure  directly  in  the  wound, 
to  temporarily  stop  bleeding.  If  the  wound  be  large,  crowd  a  wad  of 
gauze  into  the  depths,  and  press  down.  Then  apply  pressure  at  a 
short  distance  above,  between  the  wound  and  the  heart,  using  the  tour- 
niquet or  Spanish  windlass,  the  triangular  bandage,  a  pair  of  sus- 
penders, a  piece  of  rubber  tubing,  or  a  rope.  (See  illustrations,  also 
Bleeding  from  Special  Parts). 

If  a  limb  is  badly  crushed,  do  not  put  the  pressure  on  the  injured 
flesh  but  higher  up  the  limb  above  the  crushed  tissues. 

Be  careful  to  see  that  the  pressure  bandage  is  firmly  fixed  before 
leaving  it.  Do  not  leave  a  tight  bandage  on  a  Hmb  too  long,  or  com- 
plete arrest  of  circulation  and  gangreiie  may  follow,  especially  in  a 
diabetic  patient.  The  pressure  will  usually  arrest  the  bleeding  in  ten 
to  fifteen  minutes,  after  which  the  bandage  should  be  removed  and  re- 
applied in  such  a  way  as  not  to  obstruct  the  circulation  of  the  part. 

Aft-tf  Bleeding  has  stopped  sec  sccUoti  osi  ^ovivii^  ?-a&,  ^^xi^^s^^^'SL* 


8  Bleeding. 

Bleeding  from  Veins. — ^In  venous  bleeding  (blood  is  dark  and  flows 
out),  the  directions,  in  the  main,  are  the  same  as  above  given  for  treat- 
ment in  all  cases. 

Have  the  patient  lie  down  and  lift  up  the  wounded  part,  loosen 
tight  clothing,  cover  your  hand  with  several  thicknesses  of  gauze  and 
press  the  covered  fingers  into  the  wound,  or  crowd  the  wound  full  of 
gauze  and  press  tight. 

When  the  bleeding  is  severe,  apply  cold  by  means  of  a  piece  of  ice 
wrapped  in  gauze  and  make  pressure  below  the  wound. 

Generally,  a  pad  of  gauze  laid  over  the  wound  and  bound  on  dry, 
with  a  moderately  firm  bandage,  will  stop  bleeding  from  a  vein. 

Cuts  of  the  throat,  involving  the  jugular  veins,  are  the  most  dan- 
gerous. The  hemorrhage  can  be  stopped  with  pressure  of  the  finger 
or  pad.     (See  Bleeding  from  Special  Parts.) 

Rupture  of  the  varicose  veins  ot  the  legs  are  common.  In  these, 
elevate  the  limb,  loosen  garters,  and  bandage  firmly  below  wound  and 
apply  small  compress  over  the  location  of  the  bleeding. 

Syncope,  ob  Fainting  fkom  Bleeding. — Severe  bleeding  may  cause 
fainting.  This  will  often  temporarily  check  the  bleeding.  Treat 
as  any  other  fainting  spell,  lay  the  patient  upon  tlie  floolr  or  a  couch^ 
lower  the  head,  keep  the  limbs  elevated,  apply  warmth  to  the  body;  but 
be  ready  to  check  the  bleeding  again  if  it  should  start  up  when  con- 
sciousness and  the  circulation  are  restored. 

Bleeding  from  Capillary  Vessels. — This  form  of  bleeding  is  known 
*as  an  oozing  from  a  small  wound,  and  occurs  in  nearly  every  variety  of 
wound  whether  large  or  small.  Exposure  to  the  air  for  a  few  moments 
will  often  completely  check  this  form  of  bleeding.  Hot  water  applied 
by  means  of  squeezing  out  a  mass  of  cloths  is  sometimes  equally  suc- 
cessful. Extremely  cold  water  or  a  piece  of  ice  has  the  same  effect. 
Usually  it  is  sufficient  to  apply  a  pad  of  Red  Cross  Gauze  upon  the 
bleeding  part  and  binding  the  same  tightly  in  place.  If  the  bleeding 
be  from  the  socket  of  a  tooth,  it  may  be  controlled  by  packing  it  with 
plaster  of  Paris. 


Never  wash  away  blood  dots,  b*nd  them  «p» 


Bleeding  from  Special  Parts  9 

BLEEDING  FROM  SPECIAL  PARTS 

Scalp. — Press  down  directly  upon  the  scalp  near  the  edge  of  the 
wound,  on  the  side  from  which  the  bleeding  proceeds.  If  possible  do 
not  touch  the  wound  with  the  hands.  This  can  be  avoided  by  covering 
the  hands  with  a  piece  of  surgically  clean  gauze.  A  little  exploring 
will  locate  the  artery  or  bleeding  vessels  without  difficulty.  A  perma- 
nent compress  may  be  made  by  folding  gauze -cloth  in  a  hard  pad  and 
binding  it  firmly  with  the  triangular,  or  roller  cotton,  bandage.  (See 
Bandaging,  for  methods  of  bandaging  the  head). 

Temple. — ^Press  with  the  thumb  upon  the  bone  just  in  front  of  the 
ear,  to  compress  the  artery.     (See  Fig.  1.) 

A  permanent  compress  may  be  applied  by  the  means  of  a  piece  of 
plain  gauze  folded  in  the  form  of  a  pad,  and  held  with  a  roller  bandage 
or  a  triangular  bandage.     (See  Bandaging.) 

Face. — Pressure  should  be  applied  when  possible  firmly  against 
the  jawbone  with  the  thumb.  (See  Fig.  2.)  Bleeding  of  the  cheek 
and  lips  may  also  be  controlled  by  passing  the  thumb  into  the  patient's 
mouth  and  grasping  the  cheek,  just  below  the  wound,  between  the 
thumb  and  the  fingers,  thus  compressing  the  artery  leading  to  the 
wound.  A  permanent  pad  compress  may  be  applied  by  binding  a  folded 
piece  of  gauze  with  a  triangular  or  roller  bandage.     (See   Bandaging.) 

Neck. — Stab  wounds,  and  cut  throat,  or  other  wounds  of  this  region 
require  prompt  attention.  Without  an  instant's  delay  grasp  the  patient's 
neck  (as  shown  in  Fig.  3)  with  the  thumb  in  the  wound  and  the 
fingers  against  the  spine,  press  the  wounded  vessels  against  the  spine 
and  not  against  the  wind  pipe,  hold  them  there  until  assistance  arrives. 
In  urgent  cases  it  is  best  not  to  substitute  a  pad  for  the  finger. 

Armpit. — If  the  arm  be  not  entirely  severed,  roll  a  towel  about  a 
wine  bottle  or  other  hard  round  substance,  or  tie  a  hard  knot  in  a  towel 
and  crowd  it  into  the  armpit  A  roll  of  newspaper,  or  stick  of  wood, 
or  other  hard  substance  covered  with  aseptic  gauze  will  answer.  (See 
Fig.  11.)  Then  bring  the  arm  firmly  to  the  side  and  fasten  firmly  with  a 
cotton  roller  bandage,  or  with  a  triangular  bandage.  Another  method 
is  to  press  the  handle  of  a  key  or  similar  article  behind  the  collar-bone, 
directly  upon  artery.  In  case  the  arm  is  severed,  pressure  may  be  made 
upon  the  artery  on  the  first  rib  just  back  of  the  collar-bone,  with  the 
thumb  or  fingers  (as  shown  in  Fig.  4),  or  with  the  aid  of  a  padded  key. 

After  Bleeding  has  stopped  see  section  on  Wounds  and  Bandaging 


10  Bleeding  from  Special  Farts 

Ann. — Arterial  bleeding  in  the  arm,  may  be  checked  as  described 
for  the  a,rmpit,  or  pressure  applied  (as  shown  in  Fig.  5).  A  stick  tour- 
niquet is  also  useful  in  controlling  bleeding  of  the  arm.  It  is  com- 
posed of  two  sticks  bound  together  with  any  available  material  (as 
shown  in  Fig.  9),  these  are  to  go  each  side  of  the  limb,  and  be  drawn 
tightly  with  the  binding.  (Gangrene  will  follow  if  this  is  continued 
too  long.)  The  triangular  bandage  applied  to  the  arm  (as  shown  in 
Fig.  6)  with  a  wad  or  pad  covering  the  wound,  may  be  used  in  addition, 
or  to  relieve  the  pressure. 

Forearm. — Eaise  the  forearm  above  the  head.  In  addition  to  the 
pressure  to  the  wound,  or  above  it,  place  a  hard  pad  such  as  a  small 
bottle,  or  stick,  in  the  front  of  the  elbow,  then  bend  the  forearm  at  the 
elbow  and  bandage  firmly  to  the  upper-arm. 

Wrist. — Raise  the  arm  above  the  head,  pressure  may  likewise  be 
applied  to  the  sides  of  the  wound,  or  upon  the  arm  or  elbow. 

Palm  of  the  Hand. — Raise  the  arm  above  the  head.  Bleeding  can 
be  controlled  by  grasping  some  small  hard  object  like  a  billiard  ball  or 
smooth  stone  covered  with  aseptic  gauze.  The  pressure  may  be  made 
permanent  by  binding  the  hand  strongly  while  in  this  position. 

Fingers. — Raise  the  arm  above  the  head,  apply  pressure  to  hand 
or  wrist  by  tying  with  cord  or  a  rubber  band.  No  violent  pressure  is 
needed.  If  arterial  branches  are  wounded,  a  surgeon  may  have  to  tie 
an  artery  in  the  forearm. 

Spanish  Windlass. — This  is  a  rough  but  effective  method  of  con- 
trolling bleeding  in  the  arm  or  legs,  and  should  be  used  only  where 
other  methods  fail  or  cannot  be  carried  out.  The  Spanish  windlass  can 
be  applied  to  either  the  arms  or  legs.  Its  construction  and  application 
are  shown  in  Figs.  6  end  10.  It  should  not  be  left  for  a  longer  time 
than  is  necessary  to  check  the  bleeding,  and  is  only  used  in  an  emer- 
gency as  a  temporary  expedient. 

Chest  and  Abdomen. — Pressure  can  only  be  applied  here  directly 
upon  the  wound  itself;  if  possible  it  is  well  to  take  a  yard  of  surgical 
gauze,  crumple  it  up  in  the  hands  and  apply  pressure  until  the  surgeon 
arrives,  or  keep  it  in  place  by  applying  a  bandage  around  the  body  if 
the  patient  is  to  be  sent  to  the  hospital. 

Thigh. — Wounds  in  the  thigh  require  prompt  attention;  pressure 
must  be  made  upon  the  inner  surface  of  the  thigh  just  below  the  groin, 

Never  let  an  injured  person  know  that  his  condition  is  dangerous. 


Bleeding  from  Special  Parts  11 

or  where  the  artery  of  the  thigh  (femoral  artery)  comes  out  of  the  body, 
about  two-thirds  of  the  way  from  the  knee  to  the  hip-joint.  (See  Fig.  7.) 
This  can  be  effected  with  the  thumbs,  or  a  rounded  stick,  or  a  key 
handle,  or  with  a  "  Spanish  windlass. '*  The  artery  may  also  be  con- 
trolled by  placing  in  the  groin  a  knotted  cloth  or  a  large  round  stone, 
and  doubling  the  leg  back  on  the  thigh  (this  is  important)  and  the  thigh 
pushed  forward  hard  against  the  abdomen,  and  tying  it  there  with  a 
bandage. 

A  piece  of  elastic  tubing  (gas  tubing)  or  a  pair  of  suspenders  (see 
Fig.  12),  passed  around  the  limb  several  times,  stretched  at  each  time 
and  inally  made  tight,  is  often  effective,  but  will  cause  gangrene  if  con- 
tinued too  long. 

Leg  Below  the  Knee. — Apply  firm  pressure  in  the  hollow  just  behind 
the  knee  (above  the  calf  of  the  leg.)  This  can  be  effected  by  placing 
there  a  stick  like  that  suggested  for  the  armpit,  and  doubling  the  leg 
back  until  it  presses  hard  against  it.  In  doing  this  the  thigh  must  also 
be  doubled  up  toward  the  abdomen  or  the  bending  of  the  knee  will  soon 
become  intolerably  painful.     (See  Fig.  8.) 


AFTER  BLEEDING  HAS  BEEN  STOPPED 

If  the  wound  has  been  handled  or  touched  in  the  operation  of  stop- 
ping bleeding,  cover  it  with  a  piece  of  surgically  clean  iodoform  gauze 
folded  so  as  to  make  several  layers  over  the  wound  ;  let  this  lie  next  to 
the  wound.  Lay  over  this  a  layer  of  absorbent  cotton  ;  bind  on  the 
whole  with  gauze  bandages,  and  finally  wrap  with  the  triangular  band- 
age or  with  the  roller  cotton  bandage.  Following  in  each  case  direc- 
tions given  under  the  heading  "  Treatment  of  Wounds." 

Never  allow  an  open  wound  to  remain  unprotected  longer  than  the 
time  employed  in  stopping  bleeding.  Use  only  sterile,  surgically  clean 
dressings  to  avoid  suppuration  and  blood-poisoning.  Eemember  that  a 
soiled  covering  is  worse  than  none  at  all. 

See  section  on  "Wounds  and  Banda^o^^ 


12  Bleeding  from  Special  Farts, 

BLEEDiNa  FROM  THE  NosE. — IjQ,j  the  patient  on  his  back,  raising  the 
arms  above  the  head.  Let  the  patient  snuff  a  solution  of  salt  in  water 
(tablespoonful  of  salt  and  water)  or  vinegar  and  water. 

If  this  fails,  take  a  narrow  strip  of  Surgical  Grauze  and  crowd  a 
small  portion  at  a  time  into  the  nostril  until  a  tight  plug  is  produced. 

If  bleeding  is  excessive  or  continuous,  summon  a  surgeon. 

Bleeding  from  the  Stomach. — (Blood  dark  coffee  color.) 

Give  ice  water  or  broken  ice  in  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  repeating 
the  dose  at  intervals. 

If  bleeding  continues,  summon  a  surgeon. 

Bleeding  from  the  Lungs. — (Blood  bright  red  and  often  coffee 
color.) 

Lay  the  patient  down  with  body  raised  to  a  sitting  posture. 

Give  lumps  of  ice,  and  apply  cold  wet  cloths  to  the  chest 

Give  small  portions  of  salt  mixed  with  vinegar. 

If  bleeding  continues,  summon  a  surgeon. 

Internal  Bleeding. — ^Apply  ice  cold  cloths  to  the  abdomen. 

In  such  cases  the  patient  should  be  laid  upon  a  bed  or  couch  with- 
out a  pillow,  with  the  head  slightly  lower  than  the  body. 

A  surgeon  should  always  be  summoned. 


BLEEDING   POINTS 

Arterial  Bleeding. — Blood  bright  red,  comes  in  spurts. 

Send  for  a  surgeon. 

Elevate  the  limb  or  part. 

Apply  pressure  directly  to  the  bleeding  part  or  along  the  course  of  the  artery 
and  between  the  wound  and  the  heart. 

Pressure  can  be  applied  quickest  with  the  hand.     (Cover  the  hand  if  possible). 

Pressure  with  the  hand  can  be  kept  up  only  for  a  few  minutes ;  substitute  a 
pad  or  compress  and  bind  it  on. 

In  applying  a  pad  or  compress,  fill  the  wound,  (the  cloth  must  be  surgically 
clean). 

A  tight  brfidage  or  tourniquet  should  not  be  left  on  too  long. 

Venous  Bleeding. — Blood  purple  or  dark  color. 

Elevate  the  part. 

Remove  tight  clothing,  garters  and  everything  between  the  wound  and  the 
heart. 

Apply  pressure  directly  to  the  wound. 

CAPiiiiiARY  Bleeding.— Oozing. 

Apply  a  bandage  direct  to  the  wound. 

Cold  or  hot  applications  are  also  useful. 

See  section  on  WounoS  and  Bandaging. 


Bleeding  from  Special  PartiK. 


Fig.  1. — To  arrest  bleeding  from  arteries 
of  the  temple.  Pressure  over  artery 
applied  with  the  thumb.  The  red  lines 
show  the  course  of  the  arteries. 


Fio.  2.— To  arrest  bleeding  from  arteries 
of  the  cheek.  Pressure  applied  to  the 
jaw  bone  so  as  to  compress  artery.  The 
red  lines  show  the  course  of  arteries. 


Fio.  3. — ^To  arrest  bleeding  from  the 
arteries  of  the  neck,  as  in  cut  throat. 
Pressure  with  the  thumb  at  the  root  of 
the  neck  near  the  collar  bone,  outside 
the  windpipe.  Pressure  with  fingers 
against  back  of  neck. 


Fig.  4.— Pressure  to  arrest  bleeding  in 
upper  part  of  arm  or  arm  pit  in  excis- 
ion of  arm,  pressure  with  thumb  over 
artery,  pressing  artery  against  first  rib. 
If  thumb  is  not  strong  enough  put  door 
key  or  hard  substance  under  thumb. 


See  section  on  "Wounds  and  Bandaging. 


FrG*  B.^To  arroat  bleeainf?  In  the  annrleft  of  Ihe 
Tta.  l.—To  arrest  bl6©dlne  In  tho  thigh.  Tr^a-  foot  or  leg,  A  ettot  or  kntittotl  cloth  plaoeiJ  In 
aure  applied  to  the  MUJowflf  the  iegimmi^ll  the  liollow  Ju^t  hehiiid  the  kneo^  and  the  lo|f 
ately  below  tJiP  ^roJn^  mldwiiy  frfsm  ihe  hip  doiiblt^d  back  uatlUt  presses  hard  aguloat  n, 
bone  no  iNo  middle  line  nt  the  bfidf  h  The  rod  the  thigh  la  lo  b&  douhled  hock  upon  Qm 
line  showe  the  course  of  the  arterj*  ahdomon. 

See  tectioa  «n  Wounds  aod  Bjiod jtgtnf « 


Bleeding  from  Special  Parts. 


16 


Fig.  9.— Tourniquet :  For  arresting  bleeding 
from  the  arteries  in  the  forearm.  Two  sticks 
tied  with  handkerchiefs  or  bandages  to  form 
compression  upon  the  arteries  tightened  until 
blood  stops,  but  no  more.  This  same  form 
may  be  used  for  leg. 


FiQ.  10.— Spanish  Windlass:  To  arrest  bleed- 
ing from  arteries  of  the  thigh.  A  stone  or 
ball  applied  directly  over  the  artery  with  a 
handkerchief  or  triangular  bandage,  the 
end  of  the  bandage  forming  a  loop  to 
which  a  stick  is  inserted  and  twisted  grad- 
ually until  the  blood  stops,  but  no  more. 
Very  severe,  but  effective. 


Pio.  11.— To  arreet  bleeding  of  axillary  artery, 
armpits,  etc.,  a  round  piece  of  wood  or  a 
good  sized  book,  wrapped  in  cloth,  thrust 
well  up  into  the  space,  and  arm  bandaged 
to  side. 


Fia.  12  — "Esmarch"  suspenders  used  to  com- 
press artery  and  arrest  bleeding.  The  elas- 
tic ribbon  is  passed  two  or  three  times 
around  the  limb  and  tightened  until  bleed- 
ing stops,  no  more. 


DONT'S  FOR  BLEEDING 

Don't  forget  to  elevate  the  limb  and  make  the  patient  as  eomfoitable  as  pos- 
sible under  the  circumstances. 

Don't  put  on  cobwebs  or  tobacco. 

Don't  put  on  styptics,  balsam  or  salves. 

Don't  put  on  a  soiled  cloth  or  bandage. 

Don't  touch  the  wound  at  all  if  you  can  stop  bleeding  in  any  other  w^ay. 

Don't  disturb  blood-clots. 

Don't  give  alcoholic  stimulants. 

Don't  get  excited,  but  try  to  keep  cool  so  as  to  reassure  the  patient,  who  is 
liable  to  be  badly  frightened. 

Don't  leave  a  wound  uncovered  after  bleeding  has  6toi)ped. 

Don't  make  pressure  stronger  than  necessary,  and  especially  do  not  \siscv^  -^ 
tight  bandage  on  too  long. 


16  Wounds. 


WOUNDS. 

First  aid  to  the  Wounded. — Jjslj  the  patient  in  a  comfortable  posi- 
tion while  the  wound  is  being  examined  and  dressed. 
Stop  bleeding.     (See  Bleeding). 

Do  not  touch  the  wound  with  the  hands  unless  absolutely  neces- 
sary to  stop  the  bleeding.  This  can  be  avoided  by  covering  the  fingers 
with   Surgical    Gauze  or  Lint. 

In  most  cases,  the  best  step  is  to  seal  the  wound  from  the  air  as 
soon  as  possible. 

The  simplest  and  best  iliethod  for  the  above  purpose  is  the  use  of 
the  "Johnson's  First  Aid  "  packet.  The  directions  for  using  it  are  as 
follows : 

Cover  the  wound  with  the  Lintine  (felted  cotton). 

Over  this,  smoothly  and  not  too  tightly,  bind  ribbon  or  roller  bandage 

and  finally  cover  the  whole  with  the  triangular  bandage. 
If  the  wound  is  extensive,  two  or  more  First  Aid  Packets  may  be 
required.    (See  Bandaging). 

Dirt  in  Wounds: — ^In  machinery,  railroad  and  other  accidents,  every 
wound  is  liable  to  become  contaminated  with  dirt  and  foreign  sub- 
stances, and  the  presence  of  these  substances  may  prove  detrimental  to 
the  healing  of  the  wound.  However,  the  fact  should  be  recognized 
that  it  is  usually  better  to  defer  any  attempt  to  cleanse  the  wound  if 
the  service  of  a  physician  or  surgeon  can  be  obtained. 

It  is  safer,  as  the  rule,  to  temporarily  bind  up  the  wound,  dirt  and 
all,  than  to  touch  it  with  unclean  hands. 

To  wash  the  wound  with  water  which  has  not  been  rendered  sur- 
gically  clean  by  boiling,  in  the  light  of  modem  aseptic  surgery,  is  an 
unpardonable  sin. 

A  vital  point  is  to  cover  the  wound  as  quickly  as  possible.  This 
will  prevent  the  entrance  of  germs,  through  contact  with  the  clothing 
and  other  substances,  and  is  the  procedure  which  has  been  followed  in 
gunshot  and  other  wounds  on  the  field  of  battle,  in  modern  wars  and 
which  has  given  excellent  results. 

The  chief  point  is  that  the  materials  used  to  cover  the  wound  must 
be  absolutely  clean;  that  is,  surgically  clean.  Such  is  the  case  with  all 
the  dressings  contained  in  "Johnson's  First  Aid"  packet,  and  in 
"Johnson's  Accident  Oase." 

Avoid  touching  an  open  wound  with  the  hands. 


Wounds  17 

K  the  service  of  a  surgeon  cannot  be  secured,  or  if  for  any  other 
reason  it  is  imperative  that  the  wound  should  be  cleaned  the  following 
rules  should  be  observed  : 

Have  the  water  which  is  to  be  used  boiled  for  at  least  ten  minutes 
and  then  allow  it  to  cool  before  using. 

Before  using,  scrub  the  vessels,  pitchers,  wash  basins  or  buckets  in 
which  the  water  is  to  be  kept,  with  the  Surgeons  Soap  and  rinse  with 
boiling  water.  (Porcelain,  stone  or  china  bowls  are  the  best,  if  these 
cannot  be  had  use  new  tin  basins  or  new  wooden  pails,  to  hold  the 
water.) 

Next  the  operator  should  thoroughly  clean  his  own  hands. 

To  do  this,  bare  the  arms  to  the  elbow  and  use  the  water  which 
has  been  boiled;  scrub  the  hands  and  arms  thoroughly  for  at  least  ten 
minutes  (using  antiseptic  soap),  take  a  nail  brush  and  scrub  particu- 
larly about  the  finger  nails  and  in  the  crevices.  Have  the  finger  nails 
cut  very  close.     Remove  all  rings  from  the  fingers. 

After  scrubbing,  pour  some  of  the  water,  which  has  been  boiled, 
over  the  hands  and  arms,  and  rinse  off  the  soap.  Finally  wash  them 
with  a  little  ether  or  alcohol.  Dry  the  hands  with  a  piece  of  surgical 
gauze  or  lint 

After  washing  his  hands,  the  operator  should  not  touch  anything 
except  the  surgically  clean  dressing  material. 

A  safe  method  is  for  the  operator  to  keep  his  hands  covered  with 
several  folds  of  surgical  gauze  or  lint  and  thus  avoid  all  contact  of  the 
fingers  with  the  wound. 

Dirt,  bits  of  grass  or  clothing,  splinters  of  wood,  fish-hooks,  pins  or 
thorns  should  be  picked  out  of  the  wound  with  a  tweezers  or  pincers, 
having  first  made  them  clean  by  boiling  the  instruments  in  a  soap-suds 
made  of  the  Surgeons  Soap. 

If  the  wound  is  covered  with  grease,  soot  and  dirt,  a  simple  and 
effectiYe  method  of  cleansing  would  be  to  moisten  a  portion  of  the  sur- 
gical gauze  with  turpentine  or  benzine  and  wipe  off  the  wound. 

If  necessasy  to  flush  the  wound,  make  some  weak  soap-suds  with 
the  Surgeons  Cresol  Soap  using  ouly  the  water  which  has  been  boiled. 
Dip  into  this  suds  a  wad  of  absorbent  cotton.  Take  this  wad  and  hold 
it  in  the  hand  a  few  inches  above  the  wound,  squeeze  it  so  as  to  cause  a 
stream  to  trickle  gently  over  the  wounded  surface.  This  will  wash  away 
the  dirt 

Do  not  mop  the  wound. 

Undean  water  should  never  be  used  on  a  wound* 


18  Wounds 

If  necessary  to  replace  any  of  the  torn  portions  of  the  wound,  do 
not  handle  them  with  the  bare  fingers,  but  cover  the  hand  with  sur- 
gical gauze  or  lint,  using  it  as  a  glove. 

In  any  event  avoid  handling  the  wound,  if  possible. 

For  wounds  known  to  have  been  infected,  after  they  have  been 
cleaned  in  the  manner  suggested  above,  the  best  dressing  is  the  follow- 
ing : 

Lay  jover  the  wound  several  thicknesses  of  iodoform  gauze.  Cover 
this  with  a  layer  of  absorbent  cotton,  and  bind  the  whole  with  the  tri- 
angular bandage  or  with  the  ribbon  roller  bandage.     (See  Bandaging.) 

No  one  but  a  trained  surgeon  should  ever  attempt  to  stitch  a 
wound. 

Adhesive  plaster  is  used  bj'  the  surgeon  to  fasten  together  the 
edges  of  wounds.  Its  use  should  be  confined  to  the  surgeon  except  in 
very  small  wounds  or  in  cases  where  its  use  seems  imperative. 

In  most  cases  the  parts  may  be  drawn  together  with  the  ribbon 
bandage,  and  over  this  the  dressings  applied.     (See  Bandaging.) 

After  the  bandages  are  applied  the  injured  part  should  be  placed 
and  maintained  in  a  position  of  comfort,  whether  the  patient  remains  on 
the  spot  or  is  carried  away. 

If  the  head  be  injured,  the  patient  should  lie  down  with  the  head 
resting  upon  a  pillow  or  cushion  covered  with  a  clean  towel,  taking  care 
that  the  injured  part  be  kept  from  contact  with  surrounding  articles. 

If  the  arm  be  injured,  it  should,  as  the  rule,  be  brought  across  in 
front  of  the  chest  and  supported  in  a  sling. 

If  the  lower  limb  be  wounded,  it  may  be  supported  in  a  comfort- 
able position  by  resting  upon  a  cushion  or  blanket. 

In  wounds  of  the  chest,  the  head  and  shoulders  should  be  raised 
by  one  or  more  pillows  until  the  patient  is  able  to  breathe  comfortably. 

If  the  abdomen  be  wounded,  the  patient  should  lie  down,  with  his 
knees  drawn  up,  and  turned  over  toward  the  uninjured  side;  or  upon  the 
back  if  the  wound  be  in  front. 

Lacerated  wounds. — These  are  quite  common  in  machinery  and 
railroad  accidents.  They  are  also  caused  by  missiles,  such  as  stones, 
bricks,  etc.,  or  by  falling  upon  sharp  stones  and  broken  glass  and  in 
many  other  ways. 

See  section  on  Bandaging* 


Wounds  1^ 

In  these  cases,  bleeding  is  not  often  excessive,  and  the  best 
procedure  when  the  services  of  a  surgeon  cannot  be  secured,  is  to 
cover  the  wound  immediately,  by  the  use  of  Johnson's  First  Aid 
Packet ;  or  if  the  wound  be  extensive,  dressed  as  noted  in  the  previous 
paragraph.  Then  place  the  patient  in  a  comfortable  position  to  await 
the  arrival  of  the  surgeon  or  to  be  transported. 

Pierced  or  punctured  wounds. — These  are  caused  in  war  by  bayonets, 
swords,  etc. ,  and  in  civil  life  by  needles,  thorns,  fishhooks,  bits  of  glass, 
splinters,  and  other  articles. 

The  simplest  treatment  is  the  best. 

If  an  object  like  a  needle  can  be  easily  removed,  do  so;  otherwise 
leave  it  until  the  arrival  of  a  surgeon. 

In  any  event  cover  the  wound  immediately,  using  the  Johnson's 
First  Aid  Packet 

In  pulling  out  the  needle  or  other  implement  examine  it  and  see  if 
any  part  of  it  has  been  broken  off.  If  any  portion  of  it  has  been  left 
behind,  do  not  try  to  remove  it,  but  inform  the  surgeon. 

In  case  of  thorns,  nails  or  other  objects,  which  would  tend  to 
poison  the  wound,  apply  a  portion  of  iodoform  gauze  next  to  the 
wound.  Over  this  lay  a  pad  of  absorbent  cotton  or  lintine  and  bind 
with  a  bandage. 


FIG.  13— Method  Of  Removing  a  Splinter. 

To  remove  a  splinter  or  other  object  well  imbedded  in  the  flesh, 
take  an  ordinary  pen  knife,  boil  the  blade  in  water  for  ten  minutes  and 
pass  it  once  or  twice  through  the  flame  of  a  lamp  ;  clean  the  hands 
according  to  the  directions  already  given  in  this  manual;  slip  the  point 
of  the  pen  knife  under  the  end  of  the  splinter  or  other  object,  and  catch 
it  against  the  blade  with  the  thumb  nail  and  draw  it  out.  It  may 
be  necessary  to  make  a  slight  enlargement  of  the  wound  so  as  to  reach 
the  splinter. 

Fish  hooks  and  arrows  usually  do  not  penetrate  deeply  and  should 
be  pushed  through  the  tissues,  never  drawn  back  unless  the  barbed 
point  has  been  cut  off. 

After  a  wound  has  been  bandaged  do  not  uncover  il«    ^  l\.  V^Wd^  ^^V.  c^vi  Tswvit^V^^.'cw^^^;^. 


20  Poisoned  Wounds 

Gunshot  wounds  should  be  treated  as  other  wounds,  first  checking 
the  bleeding,  if  severe,  and  making  the  patient  as  comfodttble  as  possi- 
ble. No  better  treatment  can  be  desired  for  gunshot  wounds  than  to 
dress  at  once  with  the  contents  of  Johnson's  First  Aid  Packet. 

Bruises. — In  slight  bruises  apply  lint  or  surgically  clean  plain 
gauze,  folded  and  dipped  in  water. 

If  severe  use  hot  water. 

In  very  severe  cases  involving  shock,  apply  warm  blankets,  warm 
bottles,  hot  flat  irons  covered  with  cloth ;  in  fact  anything  hot  or  warmi 
covered  so  as  not  to  burn  the  skin. 

At  once  give  hot  drinks,  preferably  coffee.  Alcoholic  drinks  should 
not  be  given.     A  surgeon  should  be  summoned  immediately. 


POISONED  WOUNDS 

Snake  Bitk — Don't  stop  to  kill  the  snake.  Tear  open  the  clothing 
to  expose  the  wound.  Put  a  handkerchief,  strap  or  rope  quickly  around 
the  limb  above  the  wound  draw  it  tight  enough  to  partially  stop  cirr  .- 
lation.  Better  still,  tie  it  loosely  and  then  twist  it  as  shown  in  Figures 
6  and  10. 

Take  the  tip  of  a  knife  blade  and  open  thft  ono  or  two  holes  made 
with  the  snake's  fangs.  The  best  ^r.j  lor  a  layman  to  do  this  is  to  pass 
the  blade  down  into  the  wound  and  cut  outward  ;  cut  lengthwise  rather 
than  around  the  limb. 

Be  careful  not  to  cut  and  artery,  but  this  can  be  stopped  by  pres- 
sure.    The  snake  bite  is  the  most  dangerous. 

Let  the  blood  run  from  the  knife  cut,  at  the  same  time  rub  the 
wound  with  the  finger  in  order  to  dislodge  any  of  the  tenacious  poison 
which  remains. 

Wash  the  wound  with  whiskey  rather  than  to  give  whiskey  to  the 
sufferer. 

Get  the  patient  to  a  surgeon  as  quickly  as  possible,  keeping  the 
pressure  applied. 

If  a  surgeon  cannot  be  had,  get  to  a  place  where  the  wound  can  be 
wauhod  with  water,  or  if  possible  to  procure,  wash  with  a  solution  of 

See  Bandaging;  for  method  of  dressing  wounds* 


Poisoned  Wounds  21 

bichloride  of  mercury,  one  to  one  thousand.  (The  ahtiseptic  tablets 
in  Johnson's  Accident  Case  may  be  used  one  tablet  to  one-fourth  pint 
of  water.) 

Another  method  often  recommended,  after  opening  the  wound  as 
above  described  and  bleeding  has  stopped,  is  to  burn  the  wounded  sur- 
face with  nitrate  of  silver  (lunar  caustic).  In  any  event  the  pressure 
bandage  should  not  be  released  for  several  hours  unless  directed  by  the 
surgeon.  When  the  pressure  is  released  it  should  be  done  gradually, 
a  few  moments  at  a  time  to  relieve  pain  and  then  retighten. 

Bites  of  Dogs. — Wash  with  the  Surgeons  Cresol  Soap  in  the  Acci- 
dent Case,  and  apj^ly  hartshorn. 

If  the  dog  has  been  sick,  the  wound  after  cleansing  may  be  sucked. 

Cases  of  hydrophobia  are  very  rare.  If  this  is  suspected  summon 
a  surgeon  and  take  his  advice  before  being  alarmed. 

Bites  of  rats,  cats  and  other  animals  are  less  dangerous  than  those 
of  dogs. 

Clean  them  well  with  Surgeons  Cresol  Soap  and  apply  hartshorn. 

Summon  a  surgeon. 

S  iNQS  OF  Scorpions,  Centipedes,  Tarantulas. — Apply  hartshorn  at 
the  point  where  the  sting  entered. 

Then  apply  cold  water  or  ice  and  see  a  surgeon. 

The  stings  of  ordinary  insects,  such  as  spiders,  mosquitoes,  etc., 
should  be  wet  with  a  solution  of  table  salt  or  hartshorn. 

Cold  water  or  wet  earth  may  also  be  applied. 

If  painful  consult  a  surgeon. 


WOUND  DRESSING  HINTS 

Send  for  a  surgeon. 

Do  not  touch  the  wound  with  the  hands. 

Arrest  bleeding. 

Do  not  disturb  blood  clots. 

Remove  foreign  substances  when  it  can  easily  be  done. 

Never  probe  for  a  bullet. 

Bring  the  edges  of  the  wound  together. 

Cover  the  wound  as  quickly  as  possible,  using  only  surgically  clean  materials. 

Keep  the  part  quiet  with  a  sling  or  splint. 

Best  is  essential  to  the  healing  of  wounds. 


22  Broken  Bones — Fractures — Splints 

BROKEN  BONES— FRACTURES 

Simple  fractubes. — A  break  of  the  bone  without  wound  or  injury 
of  surrounding  structures. 

Compound  fractures. — When  a  bone  is  driven  through  the  skin  by 
the  accident  which  breaks  the  bone,  or  when  a  missile,  such  as  a  piece 
of  shell  or  rifle  ball,  breaks  the  bone  and  makes  a  wound  leading  to  the 
fracture. 

Treatment. — Place  the  patient  in  as  comfortable  a  position  as 
possible,  supporting  the  injured  portion  upon  a  pillow,  cushion  or  pads 
of  cloth  or  other  material. 

Remove  the  clothing  from  the  injured  part,  being  careful  to  avoid 
giving  pain  to  the  patient  by  unnecessary  handling. 

Cut  the  clothing  in  the  seams,  if  possible. 

Do  not  attempt  to  set  the  bone. 

Handle  a  fractured  limb  as  carefully  as  you  would  a  delicate  piece 
of  rare  china. 

In  a  simple  fracture  where  a  physician  cannot  be  obtained,  or 
when  necessary  to  move  the  patient  to  any  distance,  lay  the  limb  upon 
a  splint  properly  cushioned,  and  apply  a  bandage  to  keep  the  parts 
quiet  and  in  such  a  way  as  to  prevent  the  fragments  of  bones  moving 
upon  one  another. 

In  comj^ound  fractures  treat  the  bleeding  and  dress  the  wound 
according  to  the  rules  given  in  this  book,  before  applying  splints. 

A  good  practice  in  compound  fracture  is  to  cover  the  wound  with 
iodoform  gauze  next  to  the  wound;  cover  this  with  absorbent  cotton 
and  wrap  the  whole  with  the  triaugular  bandage  and  apply  a  splint  as 
in  a  simple  fracture,  being  careful  not  to  bandage  too  tightly. 

Splints. — The  chest  can  be  made  to  do  good  service  as  a  splint  for 
the  arm,  by  confining  the  arm  to  the  side  with  a  wide  roller  bandage. 

In  a  broken  leg,  the  uninjured  leg  will  make  a  good  temporary 
splint  in  a  similar  way. 

In  order  to  properly  treat  a  broken  limb,  the  splint  must  extend  so 
as  to  keep  the  joints  quiet  above  and  below  the  injury. 

The  width  of  a  splint  should  be  a  little  greater  than  the  thickness 
of  the  injured  limb. 

The  surface  of  the  splint  which  is  to  come  next  to  the  patient 
should  be  cushioned  with  some  soft  and  elastic  material. 

Before  applying  a  sling  or  splint  bind  tip  the  wound* 


Broken  Bones — Splints  23 

For  this  purpose  either  absorbent  cotton  or  ordinary  cotton  will 
be  founcl  serviceable. 

In  many  cases  it  is  better  to  have  two  splints,  one  on  each  side  of 
the  limb,  both  held  in  place  by  the  same  bandage. 

Small  splints  may  bo  cut  from  cigar  boxes,  paste-board  boxes,  book 
covers,  laths,  shingles,  etc.,  flour  or  sugar-barrel  staves,  broom  or  mop 
handles,  even  fire-tongs,  pokers  and  shovels,  desk  rulers  have  been  em- 
ployed, these  should  be  well  covered  with  soft  paper,  or  what  is  prefer- 
able, absorbent  cotton,  lint,  or  gauze. 

In  the  shop  or  factory,  tools  and  their  handles,  umbrellas,  canes, 
parasols,  may  be  used. 

In  absence  of  these,  bunches  of  twigs  from  bushes,  straw  or  stiff 
grass  may  be  utilized. 


Fig.  14. — Splints  made  of  umbrellas  and  canes. 

In  the  army,  soldiers  have  utilized  bayonets,  swords,  ramrods,  rifles 
and  other  articles  for  temporary  dressing  so  that  the  injured  person 
could  be  carried  to  the  hospital. 

The  triangular  bandage  from  Johnson's  First  Aid  Packet  folded  in 
a  broad  or  narrow  cravat,  or  a  roller  cotton  bandage  may  be  used  tc 
hold  the  splints  in  place. 

In  the  absence  of  these,  pocket  handkerchiefs,  towels,  garters,  sus- 
penders, cords  or  straps  may  be  used. 

In  fixing  a  splint,  care  should  be  taken  to  avoid  causing  pain  or 
bandaging  the  part  so  tightly  as  to  interfere  with  the  circulation  of  the 
blood. 

The  tips  of  the  fingers  or  toes  should  be  left  uncovered  so  that 
they  may  be  seen  and  felt  occasionally  to  ascertain  if  their  circulation  is 
good. 

In  raising  a  broken  limb  it  should  be  supported  by  the  hands  of 
assistants  gently  slipped  under  it,  above  and  below  the  injury,  so  that 
there  is  no  bending  the  limb  at  the  point  of  injury,  which  would  cause 
pain  and  some  tearing  of  the  soft  parts. 

In  applying  a  splint,  the  help  of  a  second  person  should  be  obtained 
to  support  the  limb  while  the  dressings  are  being  adjusted.  (See 
Bandaging). 

For  method  of  applying  splints  and  slings  see  Bandaging 


24  Broken  Bones — Fractures — Slings 

Slings. — The  triangular  bandage  and  roller  bandage  can  easily  be 
iiiadu  into  a  Hling  to  support  a  broken  limb.     (See  Bandaging). 

Whou  they  are  not  at  liand  the  sleeve  maybe  utilized  aH  a  sling  for 
the  arm,  by  pinning  it  to  the  breast  of  the  coat;  or  the  front  flap  of 
the  skirt  of  a  coat  may  be  used  by  turning  it  up  and  pinning  to  the  coat 

Two  handkc^'chiefs  form  an  excellent  sling;  the  first  to  be  tied, 
around  tlie  nc^rk  as  loos(ily  as  possible,  the  second,  tied  about  the  firsi 
ill  the  same  manniT,  and  the  arm  slipped  through  it. 

Fraoture  of  tjik  hkhll. — A  surgeon  should  be  sent  for  immediately 
Tli(i  piiti(int  placed  in  a  convenient  shady  place  on  his  back  with  head 
and  shoulders  slightly  raised  and  kept  absolutely  quiei 

If  th(a'e  is  an  open  seal})  wound,  make  a  pad  or  compress  of  sur- 
gically chian  iodoform  gauze  and  bandage  loosely  over  the  wound. 

If  there  is  any  evidence  of  fever,  cloths  wot  with  cold  water  or  bags 
of  i(!e  may  be  api)lied  to  the  head.  A  piece  of  flannel  should  be  placed 
und<;r  th(i  ice  bag  so  as  not  to  freeze  the  scalp. 

Fractuueh  of  thk  hpine. — Lay  the  patient  flat  on  his  back  and,  if 
pOHsibhi.  ho  should  not  otherwise  be  disturbed  until  the  surgeon  direct& 

Turning  the  2)atient  to  one  side,  or  on  his  face,  may  prove  fatal. 

Apply  hot  l)hink(its  to  the  body,  if  patient  is  cold. 

Fractiiue  of  the  nose. — Bleeding  may  be  checked  by  plugging  the 
nostrils  with  cotton  or  gauze. 

Any  wound  should  be  dressed  as  directed  in  "Wounds";  the  nose 
bandaged  and  the  patient  sent  to  the  surgeon. 

FuAOTuuK  OF  the  JAW. — Goutly  put  the  bones  in  place. 

Cover  any  open  wound  with  iodoform  gauze. 

Apply  a  bandage,  as  shown  under  Bandaging. 

Fracture  of  tjfe  (jollar  rone. — In  fractures  of  the  collar  bone,  the 
affected  shoulder  drops.  The  injured  person  commonly  supports  the 
elbow  and  forearm  so  as  to  relievo  the  weight  of  the  limb  from  the 
broken  bone.  Lay  the  patient  on  his  back  on  a  hard,  flat,  hair  mat- 
tress or  settee,  with  a  folded  blanket  under  him  without  any  pillow. 
Keep  him  in  this  position  until  the  surgeon  comes. 

Any  wound  present  may  be  covered  with  iodoform  gauze  loosely 
held  in  place. 

If  it  is  required  to  move  the  patient  before  a  surgeon  ca^  attend 
him  make  pads  of  several  folds  of  surgical  gauze,  place  a  pad  under 
each  armpit  and  bandage  the  arms  to  the  sides. 

To  send  for  a  surgeon  is  of  first  importance* 


Broken  Bones — Fractures  25 

Fracture  of  the  shoulder  blade. — Apply  a  large  arm-sling  made  of 
a  triangular  bandage,  (see  Bandaging)  then  bandage  the  arm  to  the  side 
with  another  bandage,  as  in  fracture  of  the  collar  bone. 

If  a  surgeon  cannot  be  reached,  place  the  forearm  across  the  chest, 
the  tips  of  the  fingers  reaching  the  opposite  shoulder,  and  hold  in  this 
position  with  a  sling  or  a  strip  of  adhesive  plaster  extending  from  the 
sound  shoulder  over  the  outside  of  the  entire  arm  to  the  point  about 
midway  between  the  shoulder  blades.  ^  The  bandage  may  be  carried, 
around  the  body,  enclosing  the  arms  in  place.     (See  Bandaging). 

Any  bruises  should  be  covered  with  iodoform  gauze  held  in  place 
by  a  bandage. 

Fkactuee  of  the  ribs. — The  patient  should  be  moved  as  little  and  as 
gently  as  possible.  His  head  and  chest  elevated,  preventing  interfer- 
ence with  his  breathing. 

He  may  lie  upon  the  uninjured  side  or  on  his  back,  or  may  stand 
up. 

Wide  roller  cotton  bandages  carried  around  the  chest  several  times 
so  as  to  cover  the  injury,  may  be  used. 

If  a  surgeon  will  not  arrive  within  several  hours,  or  it  is  required 
to  transport  the  patient  to  the  surgeon,  put  on  the  side  of  the  chest 
where  the  break  is,  long,  wide  strips  of  "Z  O"  Adhesive  Plaster  placed 
parallel  to  the  ribs,  and  apply  quite  snug,  beginning  at  the  lower  part  of 
the  chest  and  going  up,  each  strip  being  made  to  overlap  the  one  just 
below.  Each  strip  should  extend  from  the  spinal  column  to  the  middle 
of  the  breast  bone,  or  beyond. 

Broken  Thigh. — Lay  the  patient  on  his  back,  or  a  little  inclined  to 
the  injured  side,  with  head  and  shoulders  slightly  raised. 

Cover  any  wound  with  iodoform  gauze,  loosely  held  in  place  with 
a  roller  or  triangular  bandage.  If  necessary  to  carry  the  patient  to  a 
hospital,  apply  a  splint,  using  a  board,  broom  handle,  musket  or  other 
rigid  material,  that  will  extend  from  below  the  feet  to  the  armpit  and 
keep  the  fractured  bone  at  rest. 

Pad  with  absorbent  cotton  or  other  available  material  laid  on  the 
outer  side  of  the  injured  limb. 

Draw  the  limb  out  straight  to  its  full  length  and  bandage  the  splint 
to  it  by  bandages  above  and  below  the  break,  about  the  knee  and  ankle 
and  one  about  the  waist.     (See  Bandaging). 

If  the  patient  is  to  be  transported,  finally  bandage  the  injured  limb 
and  the  sound  one  together. 

See  Biadaging  for  methoi  of  applying  splints  and  slings« 


26  Broken  Bones — Fractures 

Fracture  or  Cut  of  the  Knee-pan — Do  not  bend  the  leg,  but  place 
the  patient  on  his  back  with  the  injured  leg  somewhat  elevated  upon 
pillows. 

Cover  any  wound  with  iodoform  gauze.    Apply  ice  to  the  joint. 

Make  a  pad  about  three  inches  thick  (for  this  purpose,  paper,  or  a 
towel  wrapped  up  in  surgical  gauze  or  lintj  may  be  used). 


Fig.  15.— splint  for  fracture  of  knee  pan.  May  be  fastened  with  Adhesive  Plaster 

or  Roller  Bandag^e. 

Place  this  pad  in  the  hollow  at  the  bend  of  the  knee. 

Place  a  similar  pad  on  the  under  part  of  the  heel. 

Prepare  a  splint  long  enough  to  reach  from  below  the  heei  to  the 
thigh  under  the  leg.  Bind  the  splint  at  the  ankle  and  the  thigi\  also 
above  and  below  the  knee. 

Fractube  of  the  leg  below  the  knee. — Lay  the  patient  on  his  back. 

Draw  the  leg  down  straight  and  place  it  (m  a  soft  pillow  or  cushion. 


Fig.  16— nilow  or  Cushion  Splint,  for  Leg. 

Cover  any  wound  with  iodoform  gauze,  binding  the  same  on  loosely 
with  a  ribbon  bandage. 

Place  a  padded  splint  made  of  boards  or  sticks  on  the  inner  side  of 
the  leg  and  bandage  firmly. 

If  a  splint  is  not  at  hand,  a  pillow  or  cushion  made  by  stuffing  a 
bag  with  straw  or  cotton,  may  be  used.  If  both  bones  are  broken  apply 
splints  on  both  sides  of  leg. 

If  the  patient  is  to  be  transported,  bandage  the  splinted  leg  to  the 
other  member. 

Broken  Joints. — Breaks  near  the  joints  are  very  serious  and  need 
extreme  care. 

Bend  or  move  the  joint  as  little  as  possible.  Apply  Hght  splints  on 
all  sides  of  the  joints. 

Lay  the  limb  on  a  pillow. 

Cover  any  wound  with  iodoform  gauze  and  ai)ply  cold  wet  cloths 

Send  for  a  surgeon.    While  waiting  make  the  patient  conifortable. 


Broken  Bones — Fractures  27 

Fracture  of  the  Foot. — Make  two  triangular  splints  (see  Fig.  17) 
padded  well  with  cotton  or  lint,  and  bandage  to  the  side  of  the  foot. 
Place  another  splint  on  the  sole  of  the  foot. 

Broken  Upper  Arm. — Place  a  pad  of  folded  lint  in  the  arm  pit  and 
extending  under  the  arm.  (A  towel  or  newspaper  wrapped  in  cloth  will 
answer).  Draw  the  elbow  down  to  the  side.  Bind  the  upper  arm  to 
the  side  of  the  chest  with  the  traiangular,  or  wide  ribbon  bandage.  (See 
Fig.  16). 

Place  "the  forearm  in  a  sling,  so  arranged  that  the  hand  is  slightly 
higher  than  the  forearm.  A  sling  at  the  wrist  will  answer  the  purpose. 
For  a  fracture  in  the  middle  of  the  upper  arm  apply  four  narrow  splints 
on  all  sides  of  arm ;  secure  by  roller  bandage  and  place  the  forearm  in 
a  sling. 

Broken  Forearm. — Place  the  forearm  across  the  chest,  the  palm 
cf  the  hand  turned  in  and  the  thumb  pointing  upward.  Place  padded 
splints  on  the  sides  of  the  fracture.  The  splints  should  extend  from  the 
elbow  to  below  the  wrist ;  bandage  the  splints  and  place  the  arm  in  a 
sling.^ 

Broken  Wrist. — Apply  a  well-padded  splint  made  of  pieces  of 
wood,  cigar  boxes,  pasteboard,  tin,  wire  or  other  material.  The  pad 
should  extend  from  the  fingers,  well  up  to  the  forearm  on  the  inner  side 
of  the  hand.  A  similar  pad,  but  shorter,  should  be  placed  upon  the 
back  of  the  hand  and  the  wrist  and  the  part  wrapped  smoothly  in  a 
bandage  before  applying  the  splint. 

Fracture  of  the  Hand. — Make  a  splint  from  thin  wood,  cigar  boxes, 
pasteboard  or  material  of  any  sort,  long  enough  to  extend  from  the  tip 
of  the  fingers  to  the  forearm.  Pad  this  splint  well  and  apply  it  to  the 
palm,  taking  care  to  have  a  thick  wad  of  padding  in  the  palm  itself. 

Bind  the  splint  in  place  and  put  the  arm  in  a  aling,  v/ith  the  hand 
rather  lower  than  the  elbow. 

Fracture  of  the  Fingers-Make  a  splint  of  cardboard  or  any 
suitable  material,  sufficiently  long  to  extend  from  the  tip  of 
the  finger  up  to  the  wrist.  Pad  the  splint  with  cotton  and 
bind  it  firmly  in  place,  and  support  it  by  a  small  sling. 

In  all  Cases  of  Fracture. — Cover  open  wounds  with  iodoform 
gauze.  It  is  necessary  that  a  surgeon  should  examine  the  case  from 
time  to  time  in  order  to  see  if  there  are  any  complications  and  if  the 
hones  are  uniting  properly. 

For  method  of  applying  splints  and  slin^i&  ^e^  B^^<^ViQ:^v 


28 


Fracture  Box. 


nx. 


PIO.  17. 


-Triangular  splint  of  two  pieces  of  wood 
for  fracture  of  the  foot 


Fig.  16.    Method  of  binding  fracture  of  upper 
arm. 

FRACTURE  BOX 

Every  establishment  where  fractures  of  the  lower  log  are  liable  to  occur 
should  be  provided  with  what  is  known  as  a  Fracture  Box. 

This  consists  of  a  floor,  a  foot  piece  and  two  side  boards  hinged  to  the  floor 
that  they  may  bo  dropped  upon  a  level  with  it.  This  is  to  facilitate  the  placing 
and  removal  of  the  limb. 

When  needed  for  use  the  sides  are  lowered  to  a  level  with  the  floor  and  the 
whole  thickly  padded  with  cotton  or  other  soft  material.  The  injured  limb  is 
then  placed  upon  the  floor,  the  foot  not  quite  touching  the  foot  board,  which  is 
also  thickly  padded ;  the  sides  are  then  raised  into  position  and  tied  by  a  piece  of 
rope  or  bandage  around  the  entire  box  at  each  end.  All  space  between  the  limb 
and  padding  must  be  firmly  wadded  to  prevent  the  slightest  movement  of  the 
fractured  limb.  The  box  should  extend  above  the  knee-joint  to  prevent  motion 
from  this  source. 

Fractures  of  the  foot  or  knee-cap  can  be  handled  with  this  fracture  box. 


Fig.  18.— Fraotore  Box  made  of  boards  hinged  so  as  to  lay  flat 


Vm.  19  —Fracture  Box,  padded  and  bound  ready  for  transportation. 


Machinery  and  Railroad  Accidents  20 

MACHINERY  AND  RAILROAD  ACODENTS 

These  accidents  are  generally  the  cause  of  very  severe  tears,  the 
wrenching  off  of  arms,  legs,  fingers  or  toes,  or  of  crushed  members,  very 
frequently  occasioning  severe  laceratioEs,  bruises  or  cuts.  The  general 
method  of  treating  wounds  or  fractures  occasioned  by  these  accidents 
will  be  found  under  the  head  of  "Fractures,"  "Wounds,"  "Bleeding," 
etc. 

In  severe  accidents  of  this  class  it  is  necessary  that  some  person 
should  take  full  charge  and  direct  all  operations. 

The  injured  person  or  persons  should  be  conveyed  to  a  place  of 
safety  nearby,  away  from  the  crowd  and  where  there  is  plenty  of  fresh 
air.  Shock  almost  always  follows  severe  accidents  of  this  character  and 
is  the  most  common  cause  of  death. 

This  should  be  treated  as  directed  under  heading  of  ''Shock." 

Severe  bleeding  is  not  usual  after  railroad  and  machinery  accidents 
as  the  wounds  inflicted  are  such  that  the  blood  vessels  are  generally 
closed,  because  they  are  torn  and  twisted  off. 

Small  wounds,  whether  cuts  or  tears,  should  be  treated  by  the 
methods  suggested  for  incised  or  lacerated  wounds. 

Usually  it  will  be  sufficient  to  use  the  Johnson's  First  Aid  for 
Wounds  packet,  covering  the  wound  with  the  Lintine,  and  binding  with 
the  ribbon  bandage,  and  afterwards  wrapping  the  whole  with  the  trian- 
gular bandage. 

Care  should  be  taken  not  to  touch  the  wound  with  the  bare  hand 
while  applying  the  bandage.    (See  Bandaging). 

Should  the  surface  be  soiled  with  dirt  or  foreign  matter,  the  better 
practice  would  be  to  wipe  it  gently  with  a  wisp  of  gauze  and  then  to 
cover  with  a  strip  of  iodoform  gauze.  Bind  this  on  with  the  ribbon 
bandage. 

Do  not  attempt  to  cleanse  the  wound  unless  surgical  assistance  will 
not  arrive  for  many  hours,  in  which  case  proceed  as  directed  under 
wounds.  The  solution  of  Camphenol  in  Johnson's  First  Aid  Cabinet  is 
an  excellent  wash  for  cleansing  and  disinfecting  wounds.  Use  accord- 
ing to  directions  on  the  bottle,  cleansing  the  instruments  in  boiling 
water  or  soap  suds. 

Large  wounds,  tears  or  lacerations  must  be  handled  care- 
fully. If  a  surgeon  will  arrive  soon,  no  better  proceeding  can 
be  followed  than  to  temporarily  cover  the  part  with  iodoform 
gauze  and  wrap  the  same  in  the  triangular  bandage. 

If  a  finger  or  toe  has  been  cut  off  put  It  back  in  place  and  quickly  bind  it  up* 


•^0  Machinery  and  dailroail  Accidents 

After  cleansing,  put  the  torn  parts  in  position  without  touching 
with  the  hand.     This  may  be  done  by  using  tweezers  or  forceps,  first 

cleansing  the  instruments  in  boiling  water  or  soap  suds. 

Cover  the  wounds  first  with  iodoform  gauze,  using  several  thick- 
nesses; bind  this  on  with  roller  gauze  bandages  and  finally  wrap  with 
the  triangular  bandage,  or  with^the  ribbon  cotton  bandage. 

If  a  spHnt  be  required  it  is  to  be  applied  after  the  wound  is  covered. 
In  cases  of  severe  pain,  cold  or  hot  cloths  (whichever  are  the  most 
comforting)  may  be  applied  near  the  injured  part. 

For  Contusions. — See  Bruises  (page  20).  Do  not  apply  cold  in  the 
case  of  severe  bruises  or  to  old  persons.  In  all  cases  the  parts  should  be 
elevated  and  put  at  rest. 

Ckushed  fingers  or  toes. — These  should  be  gently  moulded  into 
shape. 

Do  not  handle  them  with  the  naked  fingers.  Wrap  the  hand  in 
layers  of  surgical  gauze  as  a  glove. 

Even  if  a  finger  or  toe  hangs  by  a  mere  thread,  or  is  entirely  sev- 
ered, put  it  back  in  place  as  quickly  as  possible.  The  surgeon  may 
save  it. 

First,  cover  the  wounded  part  with  iodoform  gauze,  not  too  tight. 
Cover  this  with  a  ribbon  roller  gauze  bandage. 
Lay  over  all  one  or  two  thicknesses  of  absorbent  cotton  and  wrap 
the  whole  with  the  triangular  bandage,  or  with  the  ribbon  roller  band- 
age. 

The  splint  is  seldom  necessary,  but  may  add  to  the  comfort  of  the 
patient  by  preventing  accidental  injury  during  sleep,  etc. 
CitusHt^D  HANDS  AND  FEET. — HavB  the  patient  lie  down. 
Wrap  the  site  of  the  injury  first  in  iodoform  gauze,  several  thick- 
nesses, and  lay  out  rather  loosely. 

Bind  loosely  with  ribbon  gauze  bandages.  Over  this  lay  one  or 
two  thicknesses  of  surgical  gauze  and  enclose  the  entire  part  with  a 
triangular  bandage. 

It  the  hands  or  feet  have  been  torn  entirely  off,  place  the  limb  in  a 
position  where  the  injured  part  is  higher  than  the  body. 

Cuushi:d  arms  or  legs. — Do  not  disturb  the  clothing  except  to  cut 
it  away  from  the  injury  or  to  control  the  bleeding  if  excessive. 

Wrap  the  injured  part  first  with  several  thicknesses  of  iodoform 
pfauze  laid  on  rather  loosely. 

Hold  this  in  place  with  i-ibbon  gauze  bandaget). 

I3ee  wounds  and  bandaging* 


Bums  and  Scalds  31 

Over  this  lay  one  or  two  thicknesses  or  sheets  of  absorbent  cotton 
and  wrap  the  whole  with  the  triangular  bandage. 

Crushed  chest. — Crushes  of  the  chest  or  lower  part  ©f  the  body 
allow  but  little  chances  for  relief,  but  the  patient  should  be  placed  in 
as  comfortable  a  position  as  possible,  usually  upon  his  back. 

Any  wound  should  be  covered  with  iodoform  gauze  and  over  this 
layers  of  surgical  plain  gauze  and  cotton. 

Warmth  should  be  applied  and  moderate  stimulation,  the  patient 
should  be  made  as  comfortable  as  possible  under  the  circumstances. 


BURNS  AND  SCALDS 

Three  classes  are  generally  recognized  : — 

Simple  redding  of  the  skin, — first  degree. 

Accompanied  with  the  formation  of  blisters, — second  degree. 

Charring  of  the  skin  and  ulceration,  of  all  degrees,  up  to  complete 
destruction  of  the  part, — third  degree. 

Bums  of  the  second  and  third  degree,  especially  when  covering 
large  areas,  require  immediate  medical  attendance. 

In  severe  burns  there  is  liability  to  shocks  and  prostration.  The 
general  directions  for  treatment  of  such  a  case  would  be  to  transport  the 
patient  to  a  place  of  safety,  then  remove  clothing  by  cutting  away  with 
a  knife  or  scissora  If  the  clothing  sticks,  do  not  pull  it  off,  cut  around 
it  and  wet  it  with  water  or  oil,  promptly  exclude  air  by  covering  the 
wounded  or  injured  surface. 

As  the  pain  attending  a  bum  is  very  intense,  care  should  be  taken 
not  to  expose  too  large  a  portion  of  the  surface  to  the  air  at  any  one  time 
and  to  cover  as  quickly  as  possible  with  something  that  will  exclude  the 
air;  this  should  be  done  the  moment  the  covering  is  removed. 

When  the  burn  is  extensive,  expose  and  dress  a  small  portion  of 
the  bum  at  a  time. 

Never  hold  the  burn  to  the  heat,  but  warm  moist  cloths  are  some- 
times grateful,  especially  if  wet  with  a  warm  solution  of  baking  soda 
(bicarbonate). 

When  a  person*s  clothing  catches  fire,  make  him  lie  down  immedi- 
ately, or  throw  him  down  if  necessary. 

Always  cert  clothing  awayt  nevet  ipuW  ot  Vitax  >X* 


32  Bums  and  Scalds 

Wrap  him  quickly  in  a  blanket,  cloak  or  shawl,  preferably  some 
woolen  material,  and  smother  the  fire  by  pressing  and  patting  upon  the 
burning  points  from  the  outside. 

Have  water  ready,  and  in  removing  the  wrapping,  pour  the  water 
over  the  burning  point. 

Serious  degrees  of  shock  usually  follow  such  burns.  In  cases  of. 
severe  shock  it  is  heroic  treatment  to  lay  the  pitient  on  a  sheet  and 
lower  him,  clothes  and  all,  into  a  bath  tub  full  of  water,  moderately 
warm.     This  will  relieve  the  pain  and  shock. 

It  is  best  in  these  cases  not  to  attempt  any  dressing  of  the  burns, 
simply  to  cover  them  with  a  layer  of  gauze,  then  a  layer  of  lint,  over 
this  a  layer  of  absorbent  cotton,  outside  the  whole  a  sheet  or  blanket, 
and  await  the  arrival  of  the  physician,  or  transport  the  patient  to  a 
hospital. 

In  slight  burns  or  scalds,  put  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking  soda  in  a  pint 
of  boiling  water,  stir  well,  in  this  dip  a  piece  of  lint  and  carefully  cover 
the  burns  and  scalded  places;  cover  this  with  absorbent  cotton  and 
finally  wrap  with  the  triangular  or  roller  bandage. 

In  more  severe  cases,  saturate  lint  with  perfectly  fresh  salad  oil, 
olive  oil,  sweet  oil,  vaseline  or  petrolatum.  In  the  absence  of  these  the 
white  of  an  egg  may  be  used.  A  very  common  practice  is  to  apply  car- 
ron  oil  (equal  parts  of  raw  linseed  oil  and  lime  water).  In  absence  of 
oils,  dust  the  burned  part  with  starch,  flour  or  toilet  powder,  or  if 
nothing  else  is  available  use  moist  earth  or  clay. 

Cover  the  whole  with  a  layer  of  lint,  over  this  a  layer  of  absorbent 
cotton,  and  finally  wrap  with  a  triangular  bandage. 

Burns  from  caustic  lye,  strong  ammonia  and  similar  substances 
should  be  first  thoroughly  flooded  with  water  and  then  with  vinegar, 
and  subsequently  treated  as  if  burned  by  fire. 

Burns  from  acid,  vitriol,  etc.,  should  be  first  flooded  with  water  and 
washed  with  a  solution  of  baking  soda  or  lime  water.  If  nothing  else 
is  available,  take  chalk,  tooth  powder  or  a  portion  of  mortar  from  the 
wall,  crush  it  and  stir  it  up  with  water  and  apply  on  lint  to  counteract 
the  acid.     After  washing,  treat  as  a  burn  by  flre. 

Use  a  weak  solution  of  washing  or  baking  soda  in  the  case  of 
drinking  an  acid. 

Bums  of  the  inside  of  the  mouth  or  throat  caused  by  drinking  hot 
fluids  or  swallowing  chemicals.     Apply  oil  or  the  white  of  an  egg,  by 
Never  attempt  to  remove  pitchy  varnish  or  wax  from  a  burned  surface 


FrostbiU  -^Sunstroki,  33 

drinking,  or  pouring  from  a  spoon.  In  the  case  of  caustic  potasli, 
ammonia  and  the  like,  rinse  the  mouth  and  throat  with  weak  vinegar, 
If  a  fragment  of  lime  gets  into  the  eye,  don't  try  to  take  it  out 
but  flush  with  water  and  bathe  it  with  diluted  vinegar  or  with  lemon 
juice,  a  teaspoonful  of  either  to  a  cup  of  warm  water. 

Burns  by  electricity  or  lightning  are  to   be   treated   the   same   as 
burns  by  fire.     (See  Electricity  Accidents). 

Frostbite  —Carry  the  patient  to  a  closed  room  without  a  fire,  un- 
dress carefully. 

Rub  the  frozen  pai-ts,  or  the  whole  body  with  snow  or  bits  of  ice, 
otherwise  put  patient  in  cold  bath,  keeping  up  a  vigorous  rubbiug  of 
the  surface  affected;  warm  coffee  or  tea  may  be  given  as  a  stimulant. 

If  the  person  has  ceased  breathing,  use  methods  of  artificial  respira- 
tion (see  Drowning).  As  the  patient  revives,  carry  him  to  a  room 
slightly  warmer,  and  cover  loosely  with  a  blanket. 

Afterward  rub  with  a  cloth  wet  in  warm  water,  whisky  or  with 
diluted  alcohol. 

Sun  Burns. — ^Treat  as  a  mild  scald,  covering  with  a  weak  solution 

of  baking  soda,  oils,  vaseline,  or  with  white  of  an  egg,  then 
with  lint  and  bandage. 

Camphenol  Solution  may  be  applied  in  burns  of  the  first  dep^rec,  in 
frost  bite  and  in  sunburn.     (See  directions  on  the  bottle). 

SUNSTROKE. 

Remove  the  patient  to  a  dry  and  shady  place  loosening  collar,  nock 
tie,  or  any  tight  clothing. 

Pour  cold  water  over  the  head  and  face,  and  if  very  hot,  rub  ])ody 
with  pieces  of  ice.  In  prostration  from  excessive  heat,  not  sunstroko, 
place  the  patient  on  his  back,  with  his  head  level  with  his  body,  aud 
loosen  clothing.  Apply  heat  to  the  surface  of  the  body  and  extreini- 
tiea  Bathe  the  face  with  warm  water,  into  which  a  little  alcohol  or 
whisky  has  been  poured.  In  prostration  from  drinking  too  ranch  ic(^ 
water  when  overheated,  loosen  clothing,  place  on  back  with  head 
slightly  elevated.  Give  hot  drinks,  apply  heat  to  the  spine  and  thf* 
extremities. '  Don't  give  any  alcoholic  stimulauta  Tea,  coffee  or  warm 
milk  may  be  used. 

In  exhaustion  from  heat  due  to  hard  work  and  confinement  in 
close,  hot  atmosphere,  cover  the  body  with  blankets  and  apply  heat  to 
the  extremeties. 

Send  for  a  physician  as  soon  as  \)oss\\Avi. 
B0t  water,  hot  tea  or  coffee,  beef  tea  or  brolYi  axe  btU^x  ^WmxsXwiV^  sSaasi  ^Vv^^^  ^ 


34  Fainting — Fits. 

FAINTDSfa 

Fainting  and  shock  resemble  each  other  closely  and  are  often  con- 
fused. Shock  usually  follows  severe  injuries,  is  permanent  and  serious. 
Fainting  is  temporary.  Shock  is  seldom  accompanied  by  complete  un- 
consciousness. 

In  fainting,  usually  little  treatment  is  demanded,  but  in  cases  where 
the  heart  is  diseased  or  very  weak,  the  patint  will  perish  unless  prompt 
treatment  is  given.  Lay  the  fainting  person  out  flat  at  once,  with  the 
head  as  low,  or  lower  than  the  body.  Fainting  may  be  often  prevented 
by  lowering  the  head  and  sometimes  relieved  by  this  method  .See  that 
he  has  fresh  air  to  breathe,  by  opening  windows  and  keeping  bystanders 
at  a  sufficient  distance. 

Remove  or  loosen  neavy  wraps,  tight  collars,  corsets,  waist-bands. 
Water  may  be  sprinkled  or  gently  dabbed  upon  the  face,  and  smelling 
salts,  spirits  of  camphor  or  ammonia  held  under  the  nostrils,  without 
touching  them.  The  person  doing  this  should  be  very  careful  not  to 
scald  the  nose  of  the  patient  by  holding  these  applications  too  close  or 
to  use  them  too  long.  The  limbs  of  the  patient  should  be  elevated  and 
rubbed  toward  the  body  to  quicken  the  circulation.  Artificial  respira- 
tion may  be  required,  or  traction  upon  the  tongue.  (See  Drowning.) 
-If  the  person  is  slow  in  reviving,  apply  gentle  heat,  or  mustard  plasters, 
to  the  pit  of  the  stomach.  After  recovery,  a  cup  of  hot  tea*  or  coffee, 
or  a  very  moderate  quantity  of  an  alcoholic  stimulant,  such  as  wine  or 
or  whisky  well-diluted  with  water,  may  be  given. 

FITS* 

In  every  case  they  are  to  be  treated  very  much  like  fainting. 

In  a  patient  suffering  from  hysterics,  an  application  of  mustard 
plasters  to  the  soles  of  the  feet  and  to  the  wrists  is  often  of  benefit, 
aided  by  kind  and  soothing  treatment.  Heroic  measures,  such  as  dash- 
ing water  in  the  face,  strong  emetics,  etc.,  are  to  be  avoided. 

In  the  case  of  epilepsy  there  is  no  use  struggling  against  the 
movements  of  the  patient,  except  to  prevent  him  from  injuring  himself. 
A  folded  towel,  or  piece  of  soft  wood,  may  be  thrust  between  the  teeth 
to  prevent  the  usual  biting  of  the  tongue  when  he  grinds  his  teeth. 

When  the  convulsion  has  passed,  rest  is  the  best  possible  remedy, 
and  the  patient  should  be  allowed  to  sleep. 

In  apoplexy  and  uremia,  rest  and  the  application  of  cold  wet 
cloths  to  the  head  with  the  head  elevated  is  the  best  possible  treatment, 
until  the  arrival  of  the  physician. 

Strong  ammonia  (hartshorfii)  should  never  he  htouzht  dote  to  the  nostrils. 


Unconsciousness — ElectricUy  Accidents.  85 

UNCONSaOUSNESS  OR  INSENSIBIUTY. 

Concussion  or  stunning,  caused  by  blows  or  falls  upon  the  head  or 
fall  upon  the  feet,  may  cause  mental  confusion  for  a  time,  and  may  be 
accompanied  by  laceration  of  brain  substances  with  hemorrhage  and  clot. 

Alcoholic  intoxication  closely  resembles  apoplexy.  Every"  doubtful 
case  should  be  treated  the  same  as  cases  of  apoplexy  until  the  attend- 
ing physician  has  decided. 

In  all  cases,  before  the  arrival  of  a  physician,  it  is  safe  to  secure 
quiet  and  rest  by  laying  the  person  flat  upon  the  back  with  the  head  a 
little  raised  ;  heat  may  be  applied  to  the  body  if  it  should  appear  cold. 
If  there  should  be  great  heat  of  the  surface,  especially  during  very  hot 
weather,  cold  may  be  applied  to  the  body  and  head,  or  the  body  rubbed 
with  ice.     Use  no  whisky  or  vmies. 

The  cautious  inhaling  of  smelling  salts  or  hartshorn,  followed  by 
some  warm  drink,  may  be  permitted,  provided  there  is  a  long  wait  be- 
fore the  arrival  of  the  physician.  But  all  this  must  be  done  with  care 
with  the  head  lifted  up  so  that  the  patient  may  drink  more  readily,  for 
in  this  condition  the  liquids  are  liable  to  enter  the  lungs,  instead  of  the 
stomach,  if  poured  in  too  rapidly. 


ELECTRICITY  ACCIDENTS. 

The  first  thing  to  do  is  to  have  the  current  shut  off,  or  release  the 
injured  person  from  contact  with  the  conductor  of  the  current,  if  this 
is  f.till  acting  upon  him. 

The  person  who  attempts  this  must  not  touch  with  his  bare  hands 
or  skin  or  with  any  part  of  his  body,  either  the  patient  or  a  live  wire  or  a 
lamp  or  generator,  while  any  part  of  his  body  is  in  contact  with  the 
groimd,  either  directly  or  by  means  of  a  moist  or  metal  surface.  He 
should,  if  possible,  put  on  rubber  boots  and  shoes  and  rubber  gloves 
H  these  are  not  at  hand  he  may  use  a  dry  board  for  the  feet,  and  for  the 
hands,  a  number  of  coats  or  folds  of  woolen  cloth  or  paper.  A  thick 
b'  mdle  of  silk  is  also  a  good  insulator.  In  cutting  a  wire,  the  f^et 
stiould  be  protected  as  just  indicated,  and  if  an  axe  or  hatchet  be  used 
it:  should  be  one  with  a  dry  wooden  handle.  After  a  live  wire  is  cut,  the 
e^id  should  be  wrapped  or  insnlated  with  a  piece  of  cloth  or  rubber. 

In  electrical  accidents  shut  off  Uie  ctirient 


36  Sfyrains — Dislocation. 

The  person  who  has  received  the  shock  should  be  laid  down  ;  his 
clothing  loosened  and  he  should  be  given  fresh  air. 

The  body  should  be  kept  warm. 

If  breathing  is  suspended,  artificial  respiration  or  rhythmical  trac- 
tion of  the  tongue,  similar  to  the  methods  followed  in  cases  of  drowning, 
may  be  used.  If  the  heart  has  stopped  beating,  several  hard  taps  or 
blows  with  the  hand  may  be  given  which  may  cause  it  to  start  up  again. 
Bums  of  the  surface  caused  by  electricity  may  be  treated  in  a  similar 
manner  to  burns  from  fire. 

A  surgeon  should  be  summoned  promptly  in  all  cases. 


SPRAINS. 

The  most  important  thing  is  to  secure  rest  until  the  arrival  of  the 
surgeon. 

If  the  sprain  is  in  the  ankle  or  foot,  place  a  folded  towel  or  cloth 
around  the  part  and  cover  with  a  bandage.  Apply  moist  heat.  Th(^ 
foot  should  be  immersed  in  a  bucket  of  hot  water  and  more  hot  water 
added  from  time  to  time  so  that  it  can  be  kept  as  hot  as  can  be  borne 
for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  after  which  a  firm  bandage  should  be  ap- 
plied (by  a  surgeon,  if  possible)  and  the  foot  elevated. 

In  sprains  of  the  wrist,  a  straight  piece  of  wood  should  be  used  as 
a  splint,  cover  with  cotton  or  wool  to  make  it  soft,  and  lightly  bandage, 
and  carry  the  arm  in  a  sling. 

In  all  cases  of  sprain,  the  results  may  be  serious,  a  surgeon  should 
be  obtained  as  soon  as  possible.  After  the  acute  symptoms  of  pair  and 
swelling  have  subsided,  it  is  still  necessary  that  the  joint  should  have 
complete  rest  by  the  use  of  a  splint  and  bandage  and  such  applications 
as  the  surgeon  may  direct. 

Strains. — The  wrenching  or  tearing  of  a  muscle  or  tendon.  Str|ap- 
ping  with  adhesive  plaster  or  a  bandage  until  given  attention  bw  a 
surgeon  is  the  best  treatment.  J 

DISLOCATION. 

Simple  dislocation  of  the  fingers  can  be  put  in  place  by  stror^g 
pulling  aided  by  a  little  pressure  on  the  part  of  the  bones  nearest  tttie 
joint.  1 

The  best  that  can  be  done  in  most  cases  is  to  put  the  part  m  tfibe 
position  easiest  to  the  sufferer,  and  to  apply  cold  wet  cloths,  wbfile 
awaiting  the  arrival  of  a  surgeon.  P  . 

Nothing  c&n  take  the  place  oi  sending  for  a  surgeoo 


Foreign  Bodies  in  the  Eye,  Nose  and  Ear.  37 

FOREIGN  BODffiS  IN  THE  EYE,  NOSE  AND  EAR. 

Foreign  substances  in  the  eye. — Cinders,  dust,  sand  and  small 
objects  in  many  cases  can  easily  be  removed  from  the  eye  by  simple 

means. 

In  no  case  should  the  eye  be  rubbed.    Tears  will  often  wash  such 
particles  into  the  corners  where  they  can  be  seen  and  care- 
fully wiped  out  with  a  wisp  of  absorbent  cotton  or  surgical 
gauze. 

If  the  body  is  lodged  or  hidden  from  view  under  the  upper  or 
lower  Ud  or  embedded  in  the  cornea  a  grain  or  two  of  whole  flaxseed 
will  sometimes  assist  in  its  removal.  A  very  successful  method  is  to 
catch  the  upper  lid  by  the  lashes  and  pull  it  away  from  the  eyeball  and 
down  over  the  lower  lid,  hold  it  there  for  a  moment  and  blow  the 
corresponding  side  of  the  nose  vigorously,  then  let  go  and  allow  the  lid 
to  recede  of  itself,  the  free  flow  of  tears  will  wash  the  dust  particles 
iuto  the  corner  of  the  eye,  or  they  will  be  caught  by  the  lower  eye  lid. 

If  this  does  not  succeed,  the  mucous  membrane  and  cornea  should 
be  carefully  inspected.  In  order  to  do  this  the  upper  lid  should  be 
everted.  Every  intelligent  person  should  learn  this  manipulation. 
It   is   performed  as   follows  :    The  patient   is   told   to  look  down  and 


Fig.  20. — Method  of  everting  eye  lid  to  find  foreign  body. 

while  he  does  so,  with  the  lashes,  the  edge  of  the  upper  lid  is  pulled 
first  forward  and  downward  then  pulled  away  from  the  globe  and  up- 
ward over  the  point  of  the  thumb  or  forefinger  of  the  left  hand,  which  is 
held  on  the  lid  or  a  narrow  lead  pencil.  To  assist  in  the  examination  a 
magnifying  glass  may  be  employed,  in  order  the  better  to  discover 
small  fragments. 

Any  visible  loose  fragments  should  be  removed  with  a  bit  of  surgi- 
cal gauze  or  an  absolutely  clean  piece  of  cloth  or  absorbent  cotton 
twisted  around  a  match  stick  with  clean  fingers. 

Uo  not  touch  the  eye  with  dirty  fingers  or  with  unclean  clotK  -»t  ^ocksX  ^^.-c&wt^J^^* 


3&  Foreign  Bodies  in  the  Eye,  Ear,  Nose  and  Throat 

Never  use  a  dirty  knife  blade,  or  needle,  in  the  eye  to  remove 
particles  of  dust  or  cinders,  or  inflammation  may  set  in  and  disastrous 
results  may  follow. 

If  the  fragment  is  imbedded  in  the  cornea,  there  is  great  danger  of 
infection  and  loss  of  the  eye,  better  leave  it  for  a  skilful  physician. 

For  the  removal  of  any  irritation  after  a  substance  is  removed,  a 
drop  of  concentrated  sugar  solution  freshly  ])repared  with  recently 
boiled  clean  water,  may  be  put  in  the  eye,  or  the  eye  washed  repeatedly 
with  warm  water  containing  a  little  salt  (a  small  teaspoonful  to  the 
pint). 

Do  not  apply  eye  washes  or  poultices  except  under  the  direction  of 
the  surgeon. 

Immediately  after  treatment,  the  eye  should  be  covered  with  sur- 
gical gauze,  then  a  roller  or  triangular  bandage  loosely  carried  around 
the  head  to  keep  it  in  place,  and  a  surgeon  consulted.  (See  Bandag- 
ing). 

Foreign  Bodies  in  the  Nose. — Blow  the  nose  hard  while  holding  the 
opposite  nostril  closed ;  excite  sneezing  by  tickling  the  nose  or  by  giv- 
ing snuff ;  instruct  the  patient  to  take  a  full  breath  and  close  the  mouth 
then  give  a  sharp  blow  on  the  back  between  the  shoulders. 

In  a  child  such  an  obstruction  may  be  removed  by  blowing  in  the 
opposite  nostril,  or  in  the  child's  mouth. 

If  these  efforts  are  not  successful  summon  medical  aid  or  take  the 
patient  to  the  doctor's  office. 

Foreign  Bodies  in  the  Ear. — Most  foreign  bodies  in  the  ear  may  be 
truly  said  to  be  less  dangerous  to  the  patient  than  unskillful  efforts 
made  to  remove  them.  Never  insert  wire  needles  or  pins  into  the  ear  to 
aid  in  removing  foreign  bodies. 

The  safest  rule,  especially  in  the  case  of  a  child,  is  to  send  the 
patient  to  a  surgeon. 

If  live  insects  get  into  the  ear,  first  pour  into  the  ear-canal  a  little 
sweet  oil  or  glycerin,  then  gently  syringe  with  warm  water. 

An  ingenious  method  which  is  sometimes  successful,  is  to  turn  the 
ear  at  once  towards  a  strong  light  and  a  living  insect  may  come  out  of 
itself. 

Foreign  bodies  in  the  throat. — Summon  a  surgeon  promptly.  Send 
him  information  as  to  the  character  of  the  accident,  go  that  he  may 
bring  the  needed  instruments,  as  it  may  be  necpH>*ftry  to  promptly  open 
the  throat  to  save  life. 

When  there  is  no  serious  difficulty  in  breathing,  delay  all  action 
until  the  surgeon  arrives. 

For  lime  io  the  eye  see  Burns  and  ScaUli*  ^ 


Drouming.  39 

To  help  the  act  of  coughing,  it  is  a  common  practice  to  slap  the 
person  on  the  back  while  the  patient's  body  is  bent  forward  (face  down- 
ward),  and  thus  dislodge  the  bodies  in  the  windpipe. 

In  children  and  others  the  expulsion  may  be  facilitated  by  lifting 
the  person  up  by  the  heels  so  that  the  head  hangs  downward,  and 
then  slapping  him  on  the  back  while  in  this  position. 

The  patient  may  be  tied  with  bandages  to  a  bench,  and  then  have 
his  feet  elevated  by  lifting  the  end  of  the  bench. 

If  the  substance  can  be  seen,  the  patient's  mouth  may  be  opened 
and  two  fingers  pressed  back  to  the  throat  so  as  to  try  to  grasp  it;  even 
if  the  effort  to  grasp  it  be  not  successf ul«  the  act  may  produce  vomiting, 
which  may  expel  it. 


RESCUE  AND  RESUSCITATION  OF  DROWNING 

PERSONS. 

When  a  person  is  discovered  to  be  drowning,  call  to  him  in  a  loud 
voice  that  he  shall  be  saved,  to  prevent  demoralization  from  frighi 

The  rescuer  should  undress  as  rapidly  and  completely  as  possible, 
even  tearing  the  clothes  from  him  that  he  may  not  be  encumbered. 

The  rescuer  should  not  touch  the  drowning  person  while  violently 
struggling  in  the  water,  but  take  the  first  opportunity  to  seize  him,  by 
the  hair  if  possible,  throw  him  quickly  on  his  back,  the  rescuer  himself 
swimming  on  his  back,  and  towing  the  body  after  him,  resting  the  head 
on  the  chest,  holding  the  head  with  one  arm,  that  the  other  arm  and 
legs  may  be  free.  This  position  may  be  maintained  longer,  and  a  body 
supported  more  easily  till  further  aid  from  shore  is  received,  than  by 
breasting  the  waters  in  the  usual  position. 

When  the  current  sets  from  the  land,  as  in  sea  bathing,  it  is  better 
to  adopt  the  position  last  described,  and  await  aid,  than  to  struggle 
against  the  current  for  shore,  as  this  latter  procedure  often  loses  both 
the  rescuer  and  the  one  he  seeks  to  save,  through  ineffectual  efforts 
resulting  in  exhaustion. 

If  a  boat  is  available,  the  stem  or  bow  are  proper  places  to  get 
bodies  in  a  boat  with  the  least  danger  of  capsizing.  The  body  once  in 
the  boat  or  ashore,  should  be  placed  with  the  head  lower  than  the  body, 
which  may  be  done  by  placing  the  back  on  the  seat  of  the  boat  or  on  a 
hillock  of  sand,  with  head  extended  and  dropping  backward,  and  the 
arms  extended  behind  the  head. 

Always  remove  a  penoa  exposed  to  drowning  from  the  water* 


40 


Drowning. 


TbiM  UHUuUy  results  in  emptying,  by  the  mouth  and  nostrils,  much 
of  the  water  that  is  interfering  with  respiration,  and  may  be  supple- 
mented by  the  movements  of  the  Sylvester  method  (hereafter  given)  of 
inducing  forced  respiratioD. 


Fio.  21.-  Kmptying  the  water  from  the  lungs. 

InaHmuch  as  many  lives  are  lost  incessantly  by  drowning,  it  is 
HUg^oKttHl  that  every  person  living  in  localities  where  such  accidents 
are  Habh^  to  occur,  acciutunt  themselves  with  the  following  simple  and 
offtH'tual  !ut>th(>ils  of  restoration.  A  practical  method  of  so  doing  will 
bt»  for  two  or  \\\on>  iHu*son8  to  go  through  the  movements,  one  acting 
\VK  pat  iout,  the  otber  as  rescuer. 


t'la.  '^4.     tXuviu^  wj*tei  ttoiu  thrv>at  mvi  <tomaoh. 

l^utfcitAtWDu— First.    Immediately  Iooma  tlie  clothing  about  tlw   ne^   mud 

c^^t,  *-\^»\v«ing  thorn  u»  I  be  w  iiul.  ovoo^^c  in  very  severe  weather,  and  get  thA  water 
v»ut  ot  t^e  N\l>  b'tv^t  iv>  tiokUu^  in  ihe  throat  b>  a  straw  or  feather^  or  a^y 
muiuoiiui  CO  tl^t"  nose;  A  Noxou"  slap  wUh  the  ov»eu  band  upon  ch«?  ohest  and  soles  of 
!v»*t.   \\  no  imiuv^liAte  rx^sull,  pi\H.'e<fU  4s  belo>*. 


Drowning. 


il 


Second. — Lay  the  body  with  its  weight  on  the  siomach  across  any  convenient 
object,  such  as  a  keg,  box,  boat  timber  or  your  knees,  in  the  open  air  with  the  head 
hanging  down. 


Fig.  23. — Restoring  breathing  by  Sylvester  Method — Expiration. 


Open  the  mouth  quickly,  drawing  the  tongue  forward  with  handkerchief  or 
cloth        to  let  the  water  escape.    Keep  the  mouth  clear  of  liquid. 

To  relieve  the  pressure  on  the  stomach,  roll  the  body  gently  from  side  to  side 
and  then  back  on  the  stomach.  Do  this  several  times  to  force  the  water  from 
the  stomach  and  throat. 

Third. — Lay  the  body  on  the  back,  make  a  roll  of  coat  or  any  garment,  place  it 
under  the  shoulders  of  patient,  allowing  the  head  to  fall  back.  Then  kneel  at  the 
head  of  the  patient. 


Fig.  24. — ^Restoring  breathing  by  Sylvester  Method — Inspiration. 

Grasp  the  arms  at  the  middle  of  the  forearms,  folded  across  the  stomach, 
raise  the  arms  over  the  head  to  a  perpendicular  position,  drawing  them  back- 
wards, straight,  then  forward  overhead  to  the  sides  again,  pressing  the  arms  on 
the  lower  part  of  the  ribs  and  side,  so  as  to  produce  a  bellows  movement  upon  the 
lungs.    Do  this  twelve  or  fifteen  times  a  minute. 

Smelling  salts,  camphor  or  ammonia  may  be  be  applied  to  the  nostrils  t<> 
excite  breathing.    The  clothing  should  be  removed,  t\\e>  \io^^  ^\\viCjc  ^^AWw-Ww^-^* 
rubbed  briskly  upwards. 


42  Drowning, 

Fouftiu — On  signs  of  life,  or  when  breathing  is  restored,  wrap  in  warm 
blanlsets  or  hot  cloths.  To  encourage  circulation,  brandy  or  any  spirits  may  be 
given,  in  small  doses,  with  care  to  avoid  strangulation,  and  brisk  rubbing  and 
warmth  applied  to  the  entire  body. 

Drowned  Persons,  to  Find. — ^Make  a  board  raft,  ten  or  fifteen  feet 
square.  Cut  a  round  hole  in  the  center,  eight  or  ten  inches  in  diameter. 
Lie  down  on  the  raft,  with  the  face  over  the  hole,  having  the  head  cov- 
ered with  a  coat  or  shawl,  to  exclude  the  light.  While  in  this  position, 
it  will  be  noticed  that  the  rays  of  sunlight  are  concentrated  directly 
under  the  raft,  and  that  very  small  objects  can  be  distinguished  easily. 
The  raft  should  then  be  slowly  towed  over  the  place  where  the  drown- 
ing is  supposed  to  have  occured.  The  gases  generated  by  decomposi- 
tion will  usually  cause  a  body  to  rise  to  the  surface  within  a  week  or 
ten  days. 

Drowning,  How  to  Keep  From. — ^In  the  water,  the  human  body 
weighs  only  a  little  more  than  a  pound.  One  finger  placed  nipon  a 
stool,  chair,  small  box,  or  a  piece  of  board,  will  easily  keep  the  head 
above  the  water,  while  the  feet  and  other  hand  may  be  used  as  paddles 
to  propel  towards  the  shore.  To  keep,  in  this  way  from  drowning,  it  is 
not  required  that  one  should  know  how  to  swim.  In  nine  cases  out  of 
ten,  the  knowledge  that  to  be  able  to  sustain  a  pound  of  weight  is  all 
that  is  necessary  to  keep  one's  head  above  water,  will  serve  better  in 
emergencies  than  the  greatest  expertness  as  a  swimmer.  Persons 
apparently  drowned  should  be  treated  according  to  rules  given  for  pro- 
ducing artificial  respiration. 

RULES    IN    DROWNING* 

Always  pull  the  drowning  persons  out  of  the  water. 

Do  not  let  them  cling  around  your  back  or  arms  to  endanger  you. 

Duck  them  under  the  water  if  necessary  until  they  are  unconscious,  to  loosen 
a  dangerous  hold  upon  you. 

Loosen  clothing. 

Clear  mouth  and  secure  hold  on  tongue. 

Clear  air  passages. 

Start  artificial  respiration. 

Apply  warmth  and  friction ;  when  conscious,  give  hot  water,  hot  coffee  or  hot 
lemonade. 

Don  t  bo  rough. 

Don't  forgot  that  artificial  breathing  is  of  first  importance. 
-)on*t  hurry  the  breathing  movements;  take  four  or  five  seconds  for  each. 
Don't  give  up,  keep  at  work  for  hourd  if  necessary.     Persons  have    been    re- 
vived after  three  hours  steady  work. 


Sufocation — Hanging.  43 

SUFFCXIATIOR 

By  inhalation  of  poisonous  gases,  yapors,  such  as  illuminating  gas, 
charcoal  vapor,  gas  in  wells,  sewer  gas,  coal  gas,  mine  gas,  etc. 

Remove  the  patient  to  open  air. 

Send  for  a  physician. 

In  rescuing  avoid  risks. 

If  in  a  room,  open  and  close  the  door  rapidly  to  fan  and  force  air 
into  it. 

Break  out  windowa 

Tie  a  rope  around  the  waist  of  rescuer;  cover  his  mouth  and  nose 
with  a  handkerchief  wet  with  vinegar  and  water. 

G«t  the  patient  to  fresh  air. 

Dash  cold  water  on  his  face  and  chest 

Use  artificial  respiration  the  same  as  in  drowning. 

Apply  hot  bottles  to  body  ;  put  mustard  plasters  to  heart,  soles  of 
feet  and  wrists  ;  when  recovering,  mild  stimulants  may  be  used. 

HANGING. 

Always  cut  or  take  down  the  body.     To  do  this,  support  the  body 
with  one  arm  ;  with  the  loose  hand  cut  the  rope. 
Treat  the  same  as  suffocation  by  gases. 
Remove  any  constriction  around  the  neck.     Remove  the  clothing    about    the 
chest;  throw  cold  water  upon  the  face  and  body;   if  this  fails  perform  artificial 
respiration  the  same  as  in  drowning. 


^4:  Accidents:   How  to  Amid  Them. 

ACCIDENTS:    HOW  TO  AVOID  THEM. 

Always  look  in  the  direction  in  which  you  are  moving 

Never  leave  a  car,  or  other  public  vehicle,  when  it  is  in  motion. 

Never  put  your  head  or  arms  out  of  a  vehicle,  when  it  is  iji  motion. 

If  a  horse  becomes  unmanageable,  or  runs  away  with  you,  the  chances  of 
escaping  injury  are  better  if  you  remain  in  the  carriage. 

In  thunder  storms,  keep  away  from  trees  and  metallic  substances. 

Never  play  with  fire-arms.    Always  keep  them  beyond  the  reach  of  children. 

Avoid  the  fumes  of  burning  charcoal ;  they  are  deadly  when  confined  in  a 
closed  room. 

Illuminating  gas ;  be  sure  to  turn  it  off.    Never  blow  it  out. 

When  very  cold,  move  about  quickly.  If  any  part  of  the  body  is  frozen,  rub 
it  with  snow,  and  keep  away  from  the  fire. 

Change  wet  clothing  as  soon  as  possible. 

Carefully  avoid  exposure  to  night  air,  in  malarial  districts. 

Avoid  walking  on  a  railroad  track. 

When  awake,  young  children  should  never  be  permitted  to  remain  alone. 

Never  touch  guni)owder  after  dark. 

Never  light  a  lire  with  kerosene. 

Do  not  take  a  light  into  or  light  a  match  in  a  cellar,  mine,  well,  apartment,  or 
any  place  where  gas  has  escaped. 

Fill  and  trim  your  oil  lamps  in  the  daytime.    Never  trim  or  fill  a  lighted  lamp. 

Call  the  attention  of  the  person  responsible,  to  anything  that  may  cause  an 
accident. 

Keep  matches  in  a  closed  tin  box. 

Have  your  horses  rough-shod  as  soon  as  the  ground  freezes. 

Eat  only  pure  food,  drink  only  pure  liquids,  think  only  pure  thoughts. 

If  necessary  to  go  into  a  deep  well,  first  lower  a  burning  candle.  If  the  light 
is  extinguished,  the  place  is  unsafe  to  enter.  A  few  pounds  of  unslacked  lime, 
thrown  into  the  well,  will  quickly  absorb  the  carbonic  acid  gas  and  purify  the  air. 

Drugs  and  medicines  should  be  secured  in  a  chest,  prepared  especially  for  the 
purpose,  and  kept  in  a  dry  closet.  Examine  chest  and  contents  frequently.  See 
that  all  corks  and  stopples  are  in  perfect  condition,  as  volatile  preparations  lose 
their  strength  with  exposure  to  air,  while  opium  and  any  mixture  containing  it, 
grows  stronger  from  the  same  cause.  If  labels  become  detached,  detroy  bottles 
and  contents,  rather  than  risk  error  in  re-labelling.  Use,  for  poisonous  materials, 
boxes  and  bottles  of  some  peculiar  form,  and  mark  the  word  Poison  distinctly  on 
the  labels. 

Familiarize  yourself  with  the  contents  of  this  book,  and  keep  it  when*  it  can 
be  found  in  an  emergency. 


The  Dressing  of  Wounds  45 

THE  DRESSING  OF  WOUlSfDS 

The  greatest  danger  to  wounds  results  from  contamination  with  foreign  sub- 
stances, not  always  visible,  but  whose  effects  are  far-reaching.  Certain  invisiblo 
irritating  matters  (so-called  disease-germs)  quickly  find  lodgment  in  tho  wound  by 
transference  from  the  air,  the  clothing,  skin,  in  fact  from  anything  that  may  come 
in  contact  with  it.  In  consequence  of  such  contamination  blobd-poisoning,  gan- 
grene, inflammation,  fever,  erysipelas,  lock-jaw  or  tetanus,  and  a  train  of  other 
complications,  are  liable  to  follow  any  wound.  Even  scratches  and  pricks,  when 
not  properly  cared  for,  may  result  in  inflammation  and  the  formation  of  gatherings 
or  abscesses,  which  will  disable  a  person  for  a  considerable  time,  or  cause  the  loss 
of  a  limb,  or  even  cost  him  liis  life. 

The  modern  practice  of  surgery  requires  that  the  dressings  to  bo  applied  to  a 
wound  shall  not  only  look  clean,  but  must  actually  be  surgically  clean  (aseptio), 
and  free  from  infection  or  surgical  dirt.     In  the  eyes  of  a  8kille<l  eurgeon  a  pieoo 

of  spotless  linen  is  the  same  thing  as  a  filthy  rag.  He  does  not  judge  by  the  looks 
but  by  his  knowledge  of  the  effects. 

The  discovery  and  full  appreciation  of  these  facts  has  led  to  the  triumphant 
j)rogress  of  modem  surgery.  The  application  of  the  principles  has  prevented  un- 
told suffering  and  saved  millions  of  lives. 

In  order  to  place  the  beneficial  and  far-reaching  effects  of  the  modern  methods 
of  caring  for  wounds  within  the  reach  of  every  one  who  may  have  the  misfortune 
to  be  wounded,  Johnson  &  Johnson  have  devised  a  system  of  first  aid,  of  which 
this  Manual  is  the  text-book. 

The  dressings  to  be  used  in  this  system  may  be  found  in  what  is  known  as 
Johnson's  First  Aid  Cabinet. 

The  various  dressings  in  this  case  are  similar  to  those  supplied    by   Johnson 

&  Johnson  to  the  U.  S.  Government  for  the  use  of  the  Army  and  Navy.  Thoir 
timely  application  will  mean  the  saving  of  many  lives  and  limbs  and  the  proventicm 
of  a  great  amount  of  suffering.  The  use  of  these  simple  appliances  will  also  pn^- 
vent  the  employment  of  wrong  measures  of  relief.  For  the  lack  of  knowledge, 
dirty  rags,  chewing  gum,  tobacco,  cobwebs,  dirty  oils,  stimulating  liniments  and 
spoiled  salves  are,  by  well-meaning  persons,  applied  to  wounds  almost  daily  with 
the  most  disastrous  results. 

In  the  use  of  the  dressings  of  this  case,  a  surgically  clean  dressing  of  the  best 
possible  type  is  sure  to  bo  applied  quickly ;  to  leave  a  wound  uncovered  for  min- 
utes or  hours  is  to  permit  infection  by  the  air  or  by  insects,  and  may  mean  the 
loss  of  a  limb  or  the  loss  of  a  valuable  life.     The  instructions  given  for  the  prompt 
use  of  the  materials  supplied  in  this  case  are  scientifically  correct  and  th-e  metiiod 
of  first  aid  to  the  injured  is  based  upon  the  highest  principles  of  humanity.     It.  is, 
therefore,  only  natural  that  this  system  should  receive  and  has  received  the  special 
endorsement  of  thousands  of  railroad,  mining  and  factory    surgeons,    as    well    as 
those  connected  with  fire,  police  and  municipal  departments. 

Johnson  &  Johnson  are  known  all  over  the  world  as  makers  of  surgical  dress- 
ings that  fulfill  every  requirement  of  modern  surgery.  They  are  universally 
recognized  as  the  pioneers  and  leaders  in  tho  making  of  surgical  dressings.  They 
have  revolutionized  the  methods  of  manufacture  and  by  their  skill,  enterprise  and 
industry  have  made  the  application  of  surgical  cleanliness — modern  surgery — 
possible,  not  only  in  large  hospital  centers,  but  in  the  most  out  of  the  way  places. 


Upwards  of  seven  thousand  Johnson's  First  Aid  Cabinets  are  in  use  in  man- 
nfactnrJTig  establii^limenls.  It  )ia>^  been  tulopti^d  Uy  several  of  our  cliief  Kail  road 
Syntenis  as  a  shop  first  aid  equipment.  Boards  uf  Education  in  niany  cities  have 
placed  this  cabinet  in  tliG  public  (Schools!  and  adoptecj  rTobnaoTr?^  First  Aid  Manuel 
as  a  text  Ixjok  on  lirst  aid  to  the  hijnml.  It  isi  rt^comniended  by  physicians  as 
equally  atiapted  for  household  n^^t?;  bung  in  the  bathroom  it  can  easily  Ite  combined 
into  a  medicine  and  hrst  aid  cabinet. 

Johnson's  Firi^t  Aid  C'abinet  sells  for  $6.0U,  and  if  not  obtainable  through 
druggistSj  interested  parties  are  invited  to  communicate  direct  witli  the  makerB. 

The  description  of  articles  and  contents  in  the  foil  owing  pages,  while  written 
to  ctescritjo  the  original  Johnaun'a  Accident  Casie,  will  also  a[q>ly  to  the  articles 
contained  in  Johnson's  First  Aid  Cabinet  and  their  uses.  In  the  First  Aid  Cabinet 
however,  a  few  of  the  items  noted  as  belonging  to  the  "Case"  have  been  omitted 
and  a  laruc:-  <fimntity  of  more  nsicfuJ  material,  aucb  as  tmndageSj  are  supplied  iu 
tht^ir  stead. 


Johnson's  First  Aid  Cabinet  47 

CONTENTS  OF  JOHNSON'S  FIRST  AID  CABINET 

Two  Johnson's  First  Aid  for  Wounds. 

Two  ounces  Red  Cross  Absorbent  Lint. 

One  capsule  Iodoform  Gauze. 

Six  packages  Red  Cross  Absorbent  Gauze,  each  containing  one  yard. 

Three  packages  Red  Cross  Absorbent  Cotton,  each  containing  four  ounces. 

One  Spool  Johnson's  "Z  0"  Adhesive  Plaster,  1  inch  wide. 

Nine  Red  Cross  Cotton  Roller  Bandages,  2  inches  wide. 

Nine  Red  Cross  Cotton  Roller  Bandages,  2^2  inches  wide. 

Nine  Red  Cross  Linton  Gauze  Bandages,  2  inches  wide. 

Nine  Red  Cross  Linton  Gauze  Bandages,  2%  inches  wide. 

One  jar  Carbolized  Petrolatum. 

One  12  oz.  bottle  of  Camphenol  Solution  (Antiseptic  Wasli). 

One  1  oz.  bottle  of  Camphenol. 

One  Tourniquet. 

Two  packages  Safety  Pins. 

One  Johnson's  First  Aid  Manual. 

One  pair  Scissors. 

One  pair  Tweezers. 

Note. — The  Red  Cross  Ligatures,  Surgeons'  Soap  and  Antiseptic  Tablets  de- 
scribed in  the  following  pages  are  now  omitted  from  Johnson's  First  Aid  Cabinet 
and  other  material  substituted. 

DESCRIPTION  AND  USES  OF  JOHNSON'S  FIRST  AID  CABINET. 

Johnson's  First  Aid  for  Wounds.  This  packet  is  modeled  after  the  famous 
"First  Help  for  Wounds"  packet  used  so  successfully  in  recent  wars,  as  well  as  by 
all  of  the  first  aid  and  humane  societies  throughout  the  world.  (In  the  Cuban 
campaign  370,000  w^ere  supplied  by  order  of  the  United  States  Government  to  the 
Army  and  Navy).  Many  thousand  have  been  supplied  to  various  important  Rail- 
way lines. 

"Johnson's  First  Aid  for  Wounds"  is  an  improvement  on  the  regular  Army 
packet  and  is  particularly  adapted  to  times  of  peace  and  to  factory  injuries. 

The  contents  of  Johnson's  First  Aid  for  Wounds  packet  are  as  follows: — 

One  piece  of  Antiseptic  Lmtine  (felted  cotton);  one  piece  of  Bandage  Gauze; 
one  Triangular  bandage,  with  illustrations  showing  mode  of  use;  two  safety  pins. 

The  whole  is  wrapped  in  ap  impermeable  covering;  enclosed  in  a  cardboard 
carton;  sterilized  and  sealed. 

In  military  campaigns,  in  mining,  forestry  and  camping  operations,  one  of 
these  packets  is  carried  in  the  pocket,  or  clothing,  of  each  person. 

The  value  of  the  dressings  in  this  packet  has  been  well  established;  and  it  has 
been  shown  that  they  can  be  applied  by  any  person  without  the  removal  of  the 
clothing,  and  without  handling  the  wound,  and  that  the  dressing  is  just  what  is 
needed,  viz.:  an  antiseptic  sterilized  dressing.  In  most  instances  the  dressings 
found  in  this  packet  are  sufficient  for  all  purposes  until  the  arrival  of  a  surgeon. 

The  direotlons  upon  each  packet  apply  particularly  to  open  wounds,  burns, 
scalds  or  injuries  of  a  similar  nature,  and  are : 

"Do  not  touch  the  wounds  with  the  hands. 

•'Cover  the  part  injured  with  the  strip  of  Lintine  (felted  cotton;,  and  wrap  with 
the  ribbon  bandage. 

"Wrap  the  whole  with  the  triangular  bandage  as  «\io^TvV\iN;Xi^\^\>ii^'eXJ^vv^^^^ 
on  the  same." 


IS 


Johnson* s    Accident    Case, 


It  is  dinicult  to  conceive  of  a  wound  or  an  injury  which  cannot  be  completely 
or  properly  dressed  by  the  use  of  this  packet.  One,  or  at  most  two,  packets  are 
sufficient  for  the  temporary  dressing  of  a  most  extensive  injury. 


FIG.  26 


The  triangular  bandage  in  this  packet  is  the  most  convenient  and  the  most 
useful  bandage  in  the  world,  and  is  of  especial  value  because  of  the  facility 
and  the  rapidity  with  which  its  uses  can  be  learned  and  the  quickness 
with  which  it  can  be  applied;  at  the  same  time,  it  makes  the  best  temporary  dress- 
ing that  can  be  devised.  The  peculiarity  of  this  bandage  is  that  it  adjusts  itself  to 
every  condition  and  a  little  familiarity  with  its  application  affords  sufficient  knowl- 
edge of  bandaging  for  any  layman.  Plain  illustrations  are  printed  on  each  bandage 
showng  the  principal  methods  of  use,  as  specifically  described  under  the  section  of 
bandaging  in  this  Johnson's  First  Aid  Manual  which  see. 

Tourniquet. — This  simple  device  is  designed  to  stop  the  profuse  flow  of  blood 
from  severed  arteries  in  accidents  causing  severe  injuries  to  the  limbs.  It  consists 
of  a  strong  tape  fastened  to  a  wooden  handle.  The  tape  is  to  be  wound  once 
about  the  limb  (between  the  heart  and  injury),  and  passed  through  the  slit  in 
handle.  The  handle  is  then  twisted  until  sufficient  pressure  is  applied  to  the 
artery  to  stop  the  blood  spurt.  The  tourniquet  should  not  be  allowed  to  remain 
in  place  longer  than  is  required  to  immediately  obtain  the  service  of  a  physician. 
Camphenol  Solution. — This  is  an  efficient  and  safe  antiseptic  for  wound 
cleansing,  etc.  A  small  bottle  of  Camphenol  is  supplied  in  the  Cabinet;  by 
placing  one  teaspoonful  of  Camphenol  in  the  large  empty  bottle  provided,  and 
filling  it  with  water,  a  solution  of  the  proper  strength  is  derived  for  washing 
wounds  and  making  an  antiseptic  dressing.  Full  directions  for  uses  accompany 
the  Camphenol  bottle. 


Johnson's  Accident  Case — Bandaget<. 


49 


Six  Bed  Gboss  Lintox  Gauze  BoiiIjEB  Bandages,  each  ten  yards  long  and 
two  inches  wide. 

Six  Bed  Gboss  Linton  Gauze  BoijIiEB  Bandages,  each  ten  yards  long  and 
two  and  one-half  inches  wide. 

The  gauze  roller  bandages  are  manufactured 

from  special  made  clolh  and  prepared  for  surgical 

dressings.    These  bandages  are  very  absorbent, 

soft,  and  at  the  same  time  firm  and  strong.    They 

are  intended  to  be  used  as  a  direct  covering  for  the 

wound,  where  their  absorbency  is  useful  to  hold 

and  retain  wound  discharges.    They  are  also  useful 

in  binding  and  holding  other  dressings  and  for  the 

application  of  solutions,  lotions,  etc. ,  to  the  wound. 

The  gauze  bandages  as  packed  in  this  case  are 

each  wrapped  separately,  and  have  been  thoroughly 

sterilized,   and  sealed.     They  can,  therefore,  be 

PIG.  27  applied  without  danger  of  infection. 

Where  a  stnmger  bandage  is  required  or  one  for  an  outer  covering,  either  the 

ribbi^d  roller  bandage  or  the  triangular  bandage  should  be  applied.    The  widths 

here  supplied  are  those  most  useful ;  for  the  fingera  or  toes,  they  may:  be  split  into 

narrow  widths.     For  specific  methods  of  application  see  "Bandaging." 

Eighteen  Bed  Gboss  Gotton  BoiiiiEB  Bandages,  assorted  sizes,'  each  five 
yards  long. 

These  are  ribbon-like  strips  of  cotton  cloth  and  gauze  cloth,  wound  into  a 
cylinder  like  tape. 

They  are  strong  and  can  therefore  be  used  for  bindihec 
up  injuries  in  all  parts  of  the  body. 

In  general  these  bandages  are  used  to  keep  other  dress- 
ings in  place,  to  secure  splints ;  to  cover  wounds,  to  check 
bleeding,  to  protect  the  parts  from  external  injury;  bind- 
ing up  fractures — in  fact  their  uses  are  Innumerable  and 
they  may  be  said  to  be  applicable  to  nearly  every  sort  of 
injury. 

The  size  of  cotton  roller  bandages  included  in  this  case 
are  suitable  for  any  part  of  the  body ;  the  smaller  sizes 
being  used  for  the  fingers,  and  the  larger  sizes  for  the  arm, 
leg,  chest  or  head. 

Persons  of  very  ordinary  intelligence  can  satisfactorily 
apply  a  roller  bandage. 

Methods  of  application  adapted  to  ordinary  emergencies  are  describea  uu(h»r 
heading  of  "Bandaging"  in  this  manual. 

Bed  Gboss  Gauze  Plain. — Johnson  s  Accident  Gase  contains  three  packages 
of  this  gauze. 

The 'material,  as  its  name  indicates,  is  a  thin,  soft,  woven  cloth.  That 
which  is  put  up  in  these  packages  is  made  of  a  specially  spun  and  woven  fibre, 
which  is  made  absorbent  and  specially  treated  for  surgical  uses. 

For  the  purpose  of  covering  a  wound  directly  uiuler  most  conditions  this  Bed 
Cross  gauze  Is  a  very  proper  material  to  ubo.     It  \i^  ^mv^VvWvVj  ^V^jwa.  V^'^'^Ni^^^ 


big.  28 


50 


I V  AiPeidemi 


absorbs  veiy  readtlf «  eootsbie  no  £prei^  mftl 
■u  HMj,  oiiiiillDi  UM<i  prriifwim  iTHil  nhnoTli  ■!!  i 

tills  l0  tieed  elUier  tn  entiretf  or  It  maj^  to 
maklitg  compreeBeg ;  for  covering  Imi^  ex^ 
or  eolutioDS  to  boms  or  wounds;  in  taet^  e 
ditioiiB  aod  circumstances.. 

In  «ppljiog  s  gaoza  iliiWMing  ttlsalwajB  weJH  to  fold  the  gauze  In  sudi  a  waj 
tbttt  theism  will  to  ft  omiBldealile  wtnaber  of  lajets  or  fnnfan  ol  gauze  over  the 

wvMKBdfd  pKTt.    For  a  ^mall  wouod 


,  1ft  aoftk  flooClilixg  and  vUl  fbim 

ii#f«nlitf  sofgieal  g^nz^,  and 

Id  iRilftaliiA  iizes  or  folded    for 

orbees;  Hh"  applying  dressingH 

adjoatfld  to  inniuncs^le  oon^ 


ihe  Bed  CnDss  ganae  eliould  be  folrlM 
eo  as  to  form  a  pad  on^eighth  of  an 
inch  thIcJc;  this  will  require  atxntit 
twenty-fiTe  lajers  of  gauze-dotli.  For 
a  large  wonod  an  inepea^e  in  the 
numtver  of  lajers  should  bo  jnade  In 
proportion ;  one  or  two  hnndred  layers 
to  be  used  for  extia  &!zo  wounds,  sneh 
FlQ*  29  as  &  crushed  or  torn  limb,  eitensive 

ents,  etc.    After  applying  the  ^anze,  a  xoller  bajidaga  or  the  triangular  bandage 

shouM  be  nsed  to  hold  It  in  place. 

Where  there  Is  oonsldeiable  oosing  of  blood,  layers  of  absofb^it  cotton  for 

considerable  depth  on  top  of  the  gau^epad  should  h%  made  before  applying  the 

outer  bandage. 

Bed  OaosB  Ioi>ofobm  0Aoz£.--^This,  as  its  name  Implies^  Is  sterilized  absorb- 
ent gauzo,    impregnated  with  one  of  the  most  useful  of  all   antiseptics^  yIs; 

iodoform.    The  Iodoform 

used  is  guaranteed  to  be 

free    from    all    aduitera^ 

tlous  and    from    diaease 

germs.      The  Bed  Cross 

Iodoform  Gauze  has  been 

used  since  the  first  Ineep^ 

tlon  of  antiseptio  surgery, 

and    lt#    superiority    to 

other  bmnds  universally 

aeknowledgiML    It  Ib  ap* 

piled  by  the  BurgiK>n  as  a 

direct    covering  for  the 

wounded  part*    It  is  es-  ^i^'  ^^ 

pedal  I y  valuable  In  bites,   etlngs,  bums»  bruises,  open  or  closed  wounds,  elthf^r 

eb^an  or  foul  or  Infected.    It  also  forms  a  very  useful  drainage  material ;  hoin^ 

a  local  an£DSthetie,  It  Is  to  some  extent  useful  in  relleTing  pain. 

Particular  uses  for  iodoform  gauze  are  given  under  the  sections  relating  to 
*•  Wounds,'*  **  Bums,"  "  Fractures,"  etc,  which  see. 

Bbd  Cmim  Absoebknt  Oottok. — Johnson*s  Accident  Case  eontalns  four  pack- 
ets (four  ounoes  in  each  packet]  of  sterilised  absorbent  cotton. 


Johnson's  Accident   Case — Bandages. 


51 


The  Bed  Cross  Absorbent  Cotton  is  known  to  surgeons  as  on^  which  is  abso- 
utely  pure ;  that  is  to  say — it  is  chemically  pure  and  free  from  all  foreign  material. 
It  is  carefully  cleansed  and  disinfected  and  subsequently  sterilized  within  the  pack- 
age, and  is  therefore  surgically  clean.  The  cotton  is  rolled  into  layers  ar  sheets 
with  tissue  paper  between  each  layer,  and  can  therefore  be  cut  or  torn  into  any 
required  shape 


Fig.  31 
It  is  scarcely  necessary  here  to  dwell  upon  the  wide  range  of  absorbent 
cotton  as  aa  application  to  injuries  of  any  sort.  It  is  by  far  the  most  universally 
used  of  all  material  either  for  covering  wounds,  for  making  compresses,  for  pad- 
ding splints,  slings,  or  for  absorbing  discharges,  and  is  adaptable  to  every  con- 
ceivable use. 

Several  forms  of  dressing,  in  which  absorbent  cotton  forms  a  component  part, 
are  given  elsewhere  in  this  Manual,  a  typical  dressing  for  an  open  wound  is  as  fol- 
lows :  Next  to  the  wound  place  layers  of  Ked  Cross  Gauze  (plain  gauze)  for  a  clean 
wound  (iodoform  gauze  if  the  wound  is  infected) ;  above  this  place,  according  to 
the  amount  of  discharge  or  oozing  expected,  layers  of  Red  Cross  Absorbent  Cotton, 
bind  with  a  roller  cotton  bandage  or  the  triangular  bandage. 

Bed  Cboss  LiaAxaBBS. — Johnson's  Accident  Case  contains  six  packages  of 

Bed    Cross  Ligatures    (three  catgut, 
three  silk). 

These  are  for  the  use  of  surgeons 
for  sewing  or  stitching  the  edges  of 
wounds  together;  for  tying  arteries, 
etc.,  the  assortment  of  sizes  being 
adapted  to  every  emergency. 

The  Bed  Cross  Ligatures  are  well 
known  to  the  surgical  profession  as 
being  absolutely  reliable,  perfectly 
aseptic,  and  their  original  form  of  packHig  admits  of  their  being  handled  and  used 
without  danger  of  contamination.  The  ligatures  packed  in  this  case  are  espe- 
cially prepared  for  the  purpose,  each  ligature  being  accompanied  with  a  needle 
properly  threaded  and  ready  for  use.  The  advantages  of  a  surgically  clean  needle. 
surgically  clean  ligature,  in  this  convenient  form,  will  be  app&r«sit»^  ^^^t:^%^a%<^w. 


Fio.  32 


62 


Johnson*s  Accident  Cme — Ligatures 


No  OHO  but  a  surgeon  (or  a  person  who  has  been  especially  instructed  by  a 
surgeon)  should  attempt  to  stitch  a  wound  with  ligatures. 

Their  application  requires  a  technical  knowledge  of  the  tissues  involved  as 
well  as  met;hani(5al  skill  for  a  successful  application.  A  layman  can  do  much 
bett<ir  with  bandages. 

Antiseptics  Tablets. — In  the  box  containing  Red  Cross  Ligatures  is  a  bottle  of 

antiseptic  tablets.     These  tablets  are  intended  solely  for  the  use  of  the  surgeon. 

The  tablets  are  made  after  the  formulas  suggested  by  Dr.  Bernays  and  Dr. 

Liplace  (citric  acid  and  mercuric  chloride)  and  are  used  for  the  preparation  of 

antiseptic  solutions. 

One  tablet  dissolved  in  four  ounces  of  water  makes  a  solution  of  a  strength  of 
one  to  one  thousand  of  bichloride  of  mercury.  Soft  water  should  be  used  in 
making  those  solutions.  The  solutions  should  be  made  in  glass,  earthen  or  stone- 
ware vessels  (metal  vessels  should  never  be  used). 

The3(i  tablets  and  tho  solutions  made  from  them  are  highly  poisonous  and 
should  b3  u-3ed  with  caution.  Any  solution  remaining  over  after  use  should  be 
thrown  away. 

Surgeons  Soap — In  the  modern  method  of  treatment  of  wounds,  it  is  abso- 
lutely essential  that  thci  wound  itself,  tho  hands  of  every  person  who  shall  touch 
the  same,  as  well  as  anything  applied  to  the  wound,  shall  be  surgically  clean. 

Surgical  cleanliness  is  cleanliness 
that  cannot  be  attained  by  ordinary 
washing  nor  by  the  use  of  ordinary 
soap.  In  Johnson's  Accident  Case 
will  be  found  a  cake  of  Surgeons  Soap. 
This  is  a  true  antiseptic  soap,  manu- 
factured and  sold  for  surgical  pur- 
poses Many  suggestions  for  its  use 
will  be  found  throughout  the  pages  of 
this  Manual.  It  should  always  be 
used  for  washing  the  hands  of  the 
person  who  is  to  handle  a  wound,  for 
the  cleansing  of  an  instrument  or  ap- 
pliance which  is  to  come  in  contact  with  the  wound. 

Dress iNciS. — Emergency  dressings  can  be  easily  prepared  by  boiling  cloths, 
lint,  or  other  suitable  fabrics  in  a  strong  suds  made  of  Surgeons  Soap.  One-fourth 
cake  of  this  soap  dissolved  in  two  pints  of  water  forms  an  antiseptic  solution,  into 
which  bandages,  lint,  gauze,  cotton,  etc.,  may  bo  dipped  and  wrung  out  to  form 
antiseptic  dressings  in  emergency  cases. 

Suds  made  of  Surgeons  Soap  and  boiled  water  may  be  used  for  cleansing  foul 
wounds,  where  such  a  course  is  necessary,  before  tho  arrival  of  the  surgeon. 

Forceps,  knives,  scissors  and  instruments  which  are  to  come  in  contact  with  a 
wound,  should  first  be  boiled  for  five  minutes  in  a  solution  of  Surgeons  Soap. 

This  soap  is  also  useful  for  washing  u^»ers  or  old  soros ;  it  also  serves  an  ex- 
cellent purpose  for  bathing  patients  under  treatment  for  infectious  diseases,  and 
baths  for  attendants,  for  the  effectual  disinfection  of  both  person  and  clothing. 


Johnson's  Accident  Gase — IdnL 


53 


Bed  Gross  Absorbent  Lint — The  Johnson's  Accident  Case  contains  two 
one  ounce  packages  of  this  material.  Lint  cloth  is  a  thick  absorbent  cloth  with 
a  nap  on  one  side,  (resembling  canton 
flannel).  Formerly  lint  cloth  was 
prepared  in  the  household  by  scrap- 
ing old  soft  linen  or  muslin  cloths. 
The  Red  Cross  Lint  is  specially  pre- 
pared for  surgical  purposes.  It  is 
used  mainly  for  the  application  of 
solutions,  ointments,  vaseline,  car- 
ron  oil  to  injured  surfaces,  such  as 
burns,  scalds,  etc.,  also  for  com- 
presses, pads,  etc.  Modern  surgeons 
now  substituute  for    lint,  absorbent  no.  38 

cotton  or  gauze  cloth,  and  this  course  is  probably  the  better  one. 

Z.  O.  Adhesive  Plaster,  one  roll. — This  plaster  is  an  improvement  on  the  so 
called  surgeons*  adhesive  plaster,  or,  as  it  is  sometimes  termed,  rubber  adhes- 
ive plaster. 

The  Z.  O.  Adhesive  Plaster  found  in  Johnson's  Accident  Case  is  known  to  the 
surgical  profession  as  the  most  perfect  adhesive  plaster  in  the  market.  It  is  ap- 
plied without  the  aid  of  heat  or  moisture,  it  is  very  strong  and  very  adhesive.  J.t 
is  supplied  in  a  ribbon,  compactly  wound  on  a  spool. 

The  uses  of  adhesive  plaster  are  too  numerous  and  common-place  to  mention. 
Some  of  its  important  applications  in  emergencies  have  been  detailed  In  the 
preceding  pages  of  this  Manual.  When  the  services  of  a  surgeon  can  be  secured 
anl  in  the  case  of  extensive  injuries,  a  layman  should  never  attempt  to  apply 
adhesive  plaster  to  a  wounded  surface. 

In  trifling  Injuries,  or  in  cases  where  the  patient  will  not  reach  a  surgeon  for 
some  days,  adhesive  plaster  may  be  used  by  others  than  a  surgeon. 

In  applying  adhesive  plaster  to  a  broken  surface,  the  wound  itself  and  the 
surrounding  parts  should  be  cleaned  with  the  Surgeons  Soap  and  made  thoroughly 
dry  with  Red  Cross  Gauze.  (The  hands  of  the  operator  should  be  made  clean  by 
the  methods  detailed  under  wounds.) 

The  wound  should  never  be  entirely  covered  with  adhesive  plaster.  The  best 
method  is  to  bring  the  surfaces  together  with  narrow  strips,  leavhig  a  space 
between  each  strip  for  the  wound  to  discharge. 

No  large,  open  or  raw  surface  should  be  covered  with  adhesive  plaster,  it 
should  never  be  applied  to  burns. 

Adhesive  plaster  is  very  useful  for  holding  dressings  in  place  when  the 
patient  is  to  be  transported.  It  can  be  made  to  form  a  covering  and  protection 
for  wound  surfaces;  for  closing  of  torn  or  cut  wounds.  In  small  injuries  it  is 
often  the  only  application  needed.  Some  ot  the  more  common  applications  for 
adhesive  plaster  are  shown  in  the  illustrations. 


54 


ADHESIVE  PLASTER 


What  iB  known  bj^  Eubljer  Adlienive  Plaster,  or  a^  it  Is  sometimes  termed, 
Surgeoirs  Adliesivtj,  ehoulii  be  used  iimtead  of  eoart  or  isinglaes  pluBter  as  an 
ai"plItjation  to  wounds^  Eiibber  Adhej^ive  plaster  is  used  by  surgetins  to  fafitfii 
tiigether  the  edj^os  of  wounds.  It  sticks  by  itself  without  warmiji|^'  or  other 
preparation.  Tho  uaoe  cif  Adhesive  Plus* 
tr^r  are  too  numaii>iiB  and  eommonplace 
to  meEttoD. 

When  tho  services  of  a  surgeon  can  be 
secured  tvrd  in  ease  of  extensive  injuries,  a 
layman  should  never  attempt  to  apply 
adhesive  plaster  to  a  wounded  surface. 
Only  in  trilling  injuviea  or  in  ca^cs  where 
the  patient  will  not  reach  a  f^iir^ieon  for 
some  daye  sliould  adhesive  plaf^ter  be 
used  by  any  pei-son  except  a  surgeon. 


a^^Z.fl> 


Fig*  ae 


Fio.  ae^Jolning  sclj?ea  of  wound  with  Btrlra  of 
i.dlioalTt!'  Flaater. 


Fio.  37— fteraoTRl  nf  Atlheslvo  Plastor— Dampen 
wilihaluohitl  and  puIlendH  towanl  wound. 


x.#y 


^^^.rpi-ij*^ 


Th  c  S 11  rgeon  s'  Ad  hes  i  ve 
Plaster  sold  under  the  name  of 
^'Z  0"  Adhesive  Plaster  Is 
known  to  the  surgieal  i>rofession 
as  the  most  perfect  adhesive 
pliister  in  the  market.  It  is 
appliwl  without  the  aid  of  heat 
or  moisture.  It  is  fioii-irdta- 
(V  tin^^'    and    will     keep    in    any 

^  1^^**^  i;limute.     It     Is      suppUed     in 
^     vari<jLis  forms  and  sizes  such  as 
yard  rolls  and  ribbon  form,  in 


widths 
inches- 


varying    from    i    to  4 


Fig.  as— AfllieslTo  Piaster  for 
wounds  in  tnuc. 

A  very  convenient  form 
of  ttdhe.slve  plaster  for  lay 
use  and  for  t rsivf^lling  is  the 


J  >?&naS/    E 


lOhesiVe  p 


Fn>.  .10 
AithPstvf'  Plimn^r  In  CyUmlera 

kind  known  as  Zona^  Cylin- 
ders and  *'Z  O"  Poeket 
Adhesisc  Plaster* 


AtlhPBlvo  riustni-  fpvr  wimtiJia  In  linnd. 


Household  Accident  Case — Fire  Kit  65 

HOUSEHOLD  ACCIDENT  CASE— FIRE  KIT 

HOUSEHOLD  ACCIDENT  CASE* 

For  household  uses,  Johnson  &  Johnson  have  prepared  a  case  that  contains  a 
quantity  of  dressings  that  are  just  what  are  needed  to  care  for  wounds  and  hurts 
from  accidents  liable  to  occur  in  any  household,  such  as  cuts,  bruises,  scalds, 
spasms,  colic,  etc.,  or  to  make  the  patient  comfortable  as  possible  until  the 
physician  arrives. 

Each  article  or  bandage  is  wrapped  separately  and  sterilized.  Every  piece  of 
dressing  in  the  case  is  antiseptic,  surgically  clean ;  no  other  dressing  should  ever 
be  applied  to  a  wound. 

Every  article  in  this  Household  Accident  Case  is  so  simple  that  any  intelli- 
gent pei-son  can  apply  them,  and  there  is  suflQcient  material  to  last  a  long  time  for 
household  purposes. 

The  Household  Accident  Case  contains :  2  Ounces  Red  Cross  Absorbent  Cot- 
ton, in  1  ounce  packages ;  1  Tube  Carbolized  Vaseline ;  1  Yard  Red  Cross  Plain 
Gauze ;  1  Ounce  Lint ;  4  Cotton  Bandages,  2  inch ;  2  Wood's  Bandages,  2  inch ; 
3  Mustard  Leaves ;  1  Packet  Zonas  Adhefeive  Plaster,  1  inch ;  1  First  Aid  for 
Wounds ;  1  Package  of  Safety  Pins  and  1  Hand  Book  of  First  Aid. 

RED  CROSS  EMERGENCY  FIRE  KIT 

The  Red  Cross  Emergency  Fire  Kit  is  a  compact,  strongly  and  neatly  made 
case,  covered  with  black  cloth,  measuring  7J  x  9  inches,  is  little  less  than  3  inches 
deep,  fastens  with  a  nickel  catch  and  hinged. 

The  Kit  contains  material  necessaiy  for  dressing  injuries  likely  to  result  from 
fires,  and  the  articles  contained  are  so  arranged  in  slot  or  compartment,  that  any 
dressing  may  be  taken  from  thecase  without  disturbing  the  rest ;  in  other  words 
— every  article  is  on  top. 

The  Kit  was  originally  made  up  for  the  use  of  surgeons,  but  with  the  aid  of 
Johnson  &  Johnson's  Hand  Book  of  First  Aid  contained  therein,  any  intelligent 
person  can  apply  the  proper  dressing;  in  fact,  there  is  nothing  in  the  kit  that 
could  possibly  harm  any  sort  of  a  wound,  while  the  timely  applicatioja  will  in 
many  cases  save  life  and  limb. 

Contents: — 2  Red  Cross  Plain  Gauze  Bandages,  2  inch;  2  Red  Cross  Plain 
Gauze  Bandages,  2^  inch;  1  Johnson's  First  Aid  to  Wounds;  1  Box  "Z  O  "  Ad- 
hesive Plaster,  IJ  inch ;  1  Red  Cross  Catgut  Ligature,  No.  2,  with  needle  threaded ; 
1  Red  Cross  Silk  Ligature,  No.  2,  with  needle  threaded ;  2  ounces  Red  Cross  Ab- 
sorbent Cotton,  in  1  ounce  packages ;  2  yards  Red  Cross  Corrosive  Sublimate  Gauze, 
1-2000,  in  1  yard  packages ;  1  Pair  Forceps ;  1  Pair  Sissors ;  1  package  of  Safety  Pins 
and  1  Hand  Book  of  First  Aid. 


The  Emergency  Cose  came  duly  to  hand,  and  our  master  mechanic,  Mr.  J.  E. 
Irwin,  states  it  is  the  most  complete  outfit  he  ever  saw.  and  is  highly  pleased  with 
1  he  same.  I  wish  to  extend  my  hearty  thanks,  and  will  see  that  J.  &  J.  goods  air 
used  on  the  line  of  M.  C.  k  G. 

H.  A.  Clabe,  General  Manager,  Marietta,  Ohio. 

Please  accept  our  thanks  for  the  Johnson  First  Aid  Manual  that  you  have  just 
sent  us.    We  consider  it  invaluable  in  connection  with  the  Johnson  Accident  Case. 

Keuffel  &  EssER  Co.,  Hobokon,  N.  J. 

We  have  Just  received  from  Langley  &  Michaels  Co.  one  of  Johnson's  Accident 
Cases,  and  find  same  very  complete,  and  we  think  an  article  that  should  bo  In  every 
manufacturing  concern.  Very  truly  yours, 

Messe  k  Gottfried  Co.,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 


BB 


Bandaging^ 


BANDAGING. 

ISHABdH's  THiATfOtJiiAB  Bakbage  (Fig.  46)  may  be  applied  to  anj  part  of  the 

body*  It  Is  It) art 0  by  euttinf:(  a  pioco  of  linon  or  calico  forty  Inches  square  into  two 
pieces  crosgwlee.  The  baadago  may  he  uaetl  either  as  a  *'broad"  or  "narrow" 
baDdage. 

Tlie  broad  is  mmle  by  spreading  the  bandage  out,  then  bringing  the  point 
down  to  the  Jower  bord(^r,  and  tlien  folding  into  two  foldt^, 

Tlie  narrow  is  niade  by  drawing  the  point  down  to  the  lower  border,  and  then 
folding  into  three.  (See  ¥ig.  4B) 

The  bandage  should  always  be  fastened  either  by  a  pin  or  by  being  tied  with  ^ 
a  reef-knot*    (Fig*  47)»    It  is  applied  to  the  body  as  follows : 


J 


JlOt  46— 'Esmarch's  Triangular  Bandage. 
To  Cne  Sealp-  (Figs.  53  and  54)  Fold  a  hem  about  two  inches  deep  along  the  lower 
border ;  place  the  bandage  on  the  head  so  that  the  hem  llee  on  the  forehead  and  the 
point  hangs  down  at  the  baclc ;  then  carry  the  two  ends  round  the  head  above  the 
ears  eross  them  at  the  back,  and  bring  them  forward  and  tie  on  the  forehead  ;  then 
draw  the  point  downwardSj  and  turn  it  up  and  pin  it  on  the  top  of  the  bead. 


FIG.  47— Beef  Knot. 

In  applying  this  bandage  care  must  be  taken  to  put  the  hem  close  down  to  the 
eyebrows,  not  to  carry  the  ends  above  the  ears,  and  to  tie  the  ends  close  down  to 
the  eyebrows,  and  not  high  up  on  the  forehead. 

For  the  forehead,  side  of  head,  eye,  cheek,  for  any  part  of  the  body  which  j 
round,  (as  the  arm  or  thigh,  etc*,)  the  narrow  bandage  must  be  used,  its  cente 
bo^Mg  placed  on  the  wound,  and  the  ends  being  carriml  round  the  limb  and  tIccL 

For  the  eyes  or  front  of  the  face  the  narrow  bandage  is  folded  about  the  head 
at  the  middle  line  of  the  face  with  the  ends  tied  in  a  reef  knot. 


Bandaging, 


57 


Neck. — Use  the  narrow  or  broad  bandago  as  may  be  required,  tying  on  the 
side  opposite  the  injury.     (See  Figs.  55  and  5G.) 

For  Shoulder. — (Figs.  69,  70  and  71  B  CT)  Place  the  center  of  a  bandage  on  the 
injured  shoulder,  with  the  point  running  up  the  side  of  the  neclt;  carry  tlie  ends 
round  the  middle  of  the  arm  and  tie  them ;  talte  a  second  bandage,  told  it  into  a 
broad  baadage,  place  one  end  over  the  point  of  the  first  bandage,  sling  the  arm  by 
carrying  the  other  end  of  the  bandage  over  the  sound  shoulder,  and  tying  at  the 
side  of  the  neck ;  bring  the  point  of  the  first  bandage  under  the  part  of  the  sling 
resting  on  the  injured  shoulder,  draw  it  tight,  turn  it  down  and  pin  it. 


Fig.  48.    Points  at  which  to  fold  Trlangrular  Bandage.    For  narrow  bandage  fold  at  1  and 
2,  S  and  4,  7  and  8.    For  broad  bandage  told  at  1  and  2.  6  and  6. 


For  Chest.  (Figs.  68,  69  and  70)  Place  the  middle  of  the  bandage  on  the  in- 
jured side,  with  the  point  over  tiie  shoulder;  carry  the  two  ends  around  the  waist 
and  tie  them ;  then  draw  the  point  over  the  shoulder  and  tie  to  one  of  the  ends. 

For  the  Back. — The  bandage  is  applied  as  above,  but  beginning  by  placing 
on  the  back. 

In  i  I  jury  to  the  ribs  it  is  best  to  use  two  bandages,  apply  one  well  under 
the  armpits  and  the  other  one  directly  below,  tying  each  one  at  a  point  opposite 
the  Injury. 


Fig.  49.    Triangular  Bandage  for  the  hand 


Fio.  50. 


Triangular  Bandage  in  form  of 
figure  8  for  the  hands. 


In  Injuries  of  the  upper  arm  use  the  broad  bandage  as  shown  In  figure  71  D, 
supporting  the  arm  In  a  sling. 

In  injuries  of  the  elbow  bind  the  bandage  in  the  same  manner  as  in  the 
upper  arm.    (Fig.  69). 

For  the  Forearm  and  Wrist.— Bind  with  a  broad  cravat  as  in  the  upper 
arm,  and  support  the  arm  in  a  sling.     (Fig.  67.) 

Hand.— If  only  the  back  of  the  hand  be  Injured,  the  figure  of  eight  bandage, 
as  shown  In  figure  50,  may  be  applied  and  the  hand  supported  in  a  large  arm  sling. 

If  the  palm  be  injured  the  form  of  applying  should  b^  Tc\v^;t«»vs\. 


58  Bandaging. 

To  cover  the  whole  hand  the  triangular  bandage  is  spread  out  and  the  hand 
laid  upon  it  with  the  wrist  at  the  lower  border  and  the  fingers  toward  the  point. 
The  point  is  carried  bacli  towards  the  fingers;  the  ends  brought  about  the 
wiists,  crossed,  brought  baclc  and  tied.    (Fig.  71  E). 

This  ma^es  a  very  effectual  and  complete  bandage  for  the  whole  hand  and 
a  support  for  all  the  fingers. 

Large  Arm-Sling.  (Figs.  59  and  60.)  Spread  out  a  bandage,  put  one  end  over  the 
sound  shoulder,  let  the  other  hang  down  in  front  of  the  chest ;  carry  the  point  be- 
hind the  elbow  of  the  injured  arm,  and  bend  the  arm  forward  over  the  middle  of 
the  bandage ;  then  carry  the  second  end  over  the  shoulder  of  the  injured  side,  and 
tie  to  the  other  end ;  bring  the  point  forward,  and  pin  to  the  front  of  the  bandage. 

Small  Arm-Sling. — Fold  the  bandage  into  the  broad  bandage ;  then  place  one 
end  over  the  shoulder  on  the  sound  side ;  cross  the  arm  over  the  middle  of  the 
bandage  hanging  down  the  chest;  then  bring  ttie  other  end  over  the  injured 
shoulder  and  tie  at  the  side  of  the  neclc.     (See  Fig.  61.J 

For  Hip.  (Fig.  67, 69)  Tie  a  narrow  bandage  round  the  body  above  the  haunch- 
bones,  tying  the  Icnot  on  the  same  side  as  the  injury ;  take  another  bandage,  turn 
up  a  hem  according  to  the  size  of  the  patient,  place  its  center  on  the  wound,  carry 
the  ends  round  the  thigh,  and  tie  them ;  then  carry  the  point  up  under  the  waist- 
band, turn  it  down  over  the  Imot,  and  pin  it. 

For  the  Foot.  (Fig.  65,  66.)  Spread  out  a  bandage,  place  the  foot  on  its  center 
with  the  toe  towards  the  point,  draw  up  the  point  over  the  instep,  bring  the  two 
ends  forward,  cross,  and  tie  them  either  on  the  sole  (if  to  keep  a  splint  on)  or 
round  the  ankle. 

For  the  thigh,  imee  and  leg  the  cravat  bandage  is  used  as  shown  in  the 
iiiustrations.    (See  Fig.  68,  69  and  71 1.) 


FIRST  AID  BANDAGING. 

The  triangular  bandage  has  proven  of  the  greatest  value  in  emergencies,  upon 
the  field  of  battle  and  elsewhere.  It  is  simple,  eflQcient  and  of  wide  applicability. 
It  is  probable  that  no  other  system  of  wound  dressing  is  able  to  accomplish  so 
much,  and  in  such  a  reliable  manner,  in  rendering  first  aid,  as  the  use  of  this  tri- 
angular bandage  in  connection  with  the  contents  of  Johnson's  First  Aid  Packet. 

In  any  ordinary  wound  the  best  possible  procedure  is  to  at  once  lay  upon  the 
wound  the  felted  cotton  contained  in  this  packet ;  over  this  lay  the  gauze  bandage 
and  wrap  the  whole  with  the  triangular  bandage,  as  shown  in  the  illustrations . 

The  triangular  bandage,  as  found  in  Johnson's  First  Aid  Packet,  is  printed 
with  the  illustrations  shown  in  Figs.  67,  68,  69  and  70  of  this  Manual,  and  it  is 
earnestly  recommended  that  every  user  of  this  Manual  and  the  Johnson's  Packet 
shall  obtain  one  of  these  illustrated  triangular  bandages  and  familiarize  himself 
with  its  use.  This  can  best  be  done  by  an  actual  and  practical  application.  One 
of  the  bandages  in  the  accident  case  may  be  used  for  the  purpose  of  practice,  or  a 
bandage  may  be  purchased  of  the  manufacturers. 

The  triangular  bandage  is  susceptible  of  many  applications  not  shown  in  this 
Manual,  or  even  upon  the  illustrations.  These  will  suggest  themselves  to  the 
user. 


Bandaging. 


59 


Fio.  51— Triangular  Bandage  for 
the  chin. 


FIO.  52— Triangular  Bandage  for  the 
top  of  Iho  head. 


FIO.  53— Triangular  Bandage  applied  fio.  54 — ^Triangular  Bandage  applied 

to  8calp»  first  operation.  to  scalp. 


Pio.  55 — Triangular  Bandage 
for  the  throat. 


FIG.  5r — Triangular  Bandage  for  the 
back  of  the  neck. 


60 


bandaging. 


FIG.  57— Triangular  Bandage,  fracture         fig.  58— Triangular  Bandage,  fracture 
of  upper  arm,  back  view.  of  upper  arm,  front  view. 


Fio.   59— Triangular  Banda^o,  l)i'()a(l- 
slin^r.  li^^ht  arm. 


Fro.  GO  -Triangular  Bandage  ])road- 
Bling,  left  arm. 


FiQ.  C)l — Narrow-arm  sling- 
Triangular  Bandage. 


FIO.  02— Sling  made  from  ] 
of  cloth. 


Bandaging. 


61 


Fio.  63 — Triangular  Bandage  for  back  fio.  64 — Triangular  Band,  ge  for 

of  the  neck.  the  throat. 


FIO.  65.     Triangular  Bandage 
for  the  foot. 


FIG.  66— Triangular  Bandage  for 
the  heel. 


FIO.  67— Triangular  Bandage,  1,  2,  Splints;    15  Heel;  31  Hip;  4  Arm  Sling;  10 
Chin ;  2  Splint  to  Forearm ;  4  Broad  Sling ;  24  Narro^r  Sling ;  9  Scalp 


62 


Bandaging, 


PIG.  68— Triangular  Bandage,  7  Hand ;        fig.  69— Triangular  Bandage,  21  Scalp ; 
12  and  16  Splints ;  20  Chest ;  8  Eye ;  19  Chest ;  32  Shoulder ;  3  Hand ;  31 

11  Knee  Bandage.  Hip ;  23  Heel ;  6  Thigh. 


FIG.  70— Triangular  Bandage,  12  and   16  Splint  in  fracture  of  leg;    29  Throat 
Bandage ;  18  and  23  Arm  ;  3  Cliest ;  22  Forehead. 


Bandaging. 


03 


pio.  71 — Boiler  Bandages — A  eye ;  F  finger,  wrist  and  forearm ;  G  groin ;  H  knee 

cap ;  J  foot  and  ankle.    Triangular  Bandage — B  C  shoulder ;  D  upper 

arm ;  E  hand ;  I  leg. 


64 


Bandaging 


li/iLLSB  Bam DAOE  —Thu  rr^ller  bandage  is  easily  applied,  and  while  experi- 
fMf'Ai  \n  in^'jiHhary,  with  a  little  practice  any  layman  may  make  an  application 
that  will  answer  in  any  emergency. 


pio.  72~Method  of  handling  Boiler  Bandage. 

It  Is  HUggiwtcHl  that  those  who  have  charge  of  the  use  of  the  Johnson's 
Accident  Case  familiarize  themselves  with  this  subject  by  taking  one  of  the  roller 
bandagcH  from  the  case  and  applying  the  same  to  a  model,  following  the  illustra- 
tlonH.  After  a  few  such  applications  sufficient  knowledge  will  be  acquired  to  stand 
In  good  Hteod  on  some  Important  occasion. 

No  particular  (hjllnltions  or  instructions  can  take  the  place  of  the  illustrations 
glv<jri  in  the  following  pages,  particularly  if  the  user  will  undertake  for  himself  to 
tti)i»ly  the  forms  of  bandages  therein  figured. 

To  apply  a  rolh^r  bandages  begin  by  holding  the  extremity  at  the  point  at  which 
It  Ih  to  Hturt  with  the  thumb  and  index  finger  of  the  left  hand ;  hold  the  roll  of 
bandage  In  the  right  liand  and  turn  this  hand  in  the  direction  taken  by  the  hands 
of  a  <rIo(tk,  unrolling  the  bandage  and  turaingit  around  the  part  to  be  enclosed  at 
i\w  HauH^  UuuK  Make  th<^  first  turn  with  the  right  hand,  after  which  the  left  hand, 
bt^lng  tviHHi  by  the  overlapping,  may  alternate  with  it. 


Kiu.  7:1     Mot  hi>il  of  applying  KoUor       Fia.   74 -Method  of  reversing  or  folding 
lliuulago  spirally.  back  turns  of  the  spiral  Boiler  Bandage. 

Tho  slmplost  fi>rm  of  applU'ation  of  a  i\)Uer  l>andago  is  a  direct  circular  turn 
aixuuul  tho  part  boglnuing  at  the  end  of  the  limb  or  part.  Where  the  part  is  larger 
at  vMu>  ouil  than  tho  othor,  for  o\unipU\  the  forearm  fnnu  the  wrist  to  the  elbow, 
olrvuhu"  tuiiis  would  not  Ho  smoothly.  In  suih  case  In^gin  at  the  small  end, 
mukiu;^  a  tVw  turns  oiU'h  ovor  the  other,  and  then  move  the  turns  up  the  limb 
spirallv.  uuikln>;  tho  spirals  ovorlap  each  other  about  om^lhird  their  width. 


Bandaging, 


65 


When  the  bandage  begins  to  pucker,  turn  the  edge  so  as  to  make  an  inverted  V 
and  carry  around  the  part  overlapping  the  preceding  turn,  and  so  on  repeating  the 
process  until  the  whole  part  is  covered.     (See  Figs.  73  and  74). 

At  joints — elbow,  knee,  ankle — roller  bandage  may  be  applied,  so  as  to  form 
a  figure  8,  the  bend  of  the  joint  forms  the  crossing  part  or  middle'of  such  a  figure 
8,  with  loops  above  and  below  the  joint. 

In  applying  a  roller  bandage  care  must  be  used  as  to  the  amount  of  tension 
to  be  employed.  The  surgeons  use  the  expressions  **  tight,"  "  moderately  tight " 
and  «*loose."  These  grades  may  be  estimi  ed  by  applying  a  bandage  upon  one's 
own  person.  A  tight  bandage  around  the  hand  would  cause  it  to  throb;  a 
moilerately  tight  bandage  around  the  ilngers  would  give  the  support  of  a 
comfortable  fitting  glove ;  a  loose  bandage  is  such  that  may  bo  applied  to  the  eye 
without  discomfort.  As  a  general  rule,  bandages  around  the  fleshy  part  of  the 
arm  and  thigh  will  allow  more  force  than  other  parts  of  the  body.  In  applying  a 
bandage  to  the  entire  limb  a  slight  increase  of  pressure  may  bo  applied  at  each 
turn  of  the  bandage  from  the  beginning.     When  the  roller  bandage  is  used  to  hold 


FIG.  76— Bandaire   for   forearm  be^irln  ban 
daglng  at  point  nearest  the  shoulder. 


FIG.  75— Roller  Bandagre  for  elbow  joint  begin 
bandaging  at  forearm. 


FIG.  77— Figure-of-Elght  Bandage  for  wrist 
and  forearm  begin  bandaging  at  point 
nearest  elbow. 


Splints  in  place,  more  pressure  may  be  used  than  if  applied  directly  to  the  limb 
itself.  If  the  hand  or  foot,  the  fingers  or  toes  are  left  uncovered  while  the  rest  of 
the  member  is  tightly  bandaged,  swelling  is  very  liable  to  occur  with  disastrous 
results.  Bandages  applied  over  thick  layers  of  gauze  or  cotton  can  be  made 
tighter  than  where  no  other  dressing  is  employed.  It  should  also  be  noted  that  a 
limb  bandaged  when  elevated,  will,  when  lowered  or  extended,  distend  and  increase 
the  pressure,  or  when  a  bandage  should  be  started  at  the  ankle  and  pass  on  to  the 
extremity  of  the  foot  and  then  return  to  the  ankle,  the  first  winding  should  be 
very  loose.  Allowance  should  also  be  made  in  bandaging  for  any  shrinkage 
which  may  occur  by  the  wetting  of  the  bandage,  such  as  discharge  from  wounds, 
bleeding,  etc. 

Aged  persons  and  children  require  moderate  pressure.  In  applying  bandages 
to  the  chest,  breathing  should  not  be  interfered  with. 

To  secure  the  end  of  a  roller  bandage,  a  pin  or  strips  of  adhesive  plaster  may 
be  used;  the  end  may  be  slit  into  tails  which  are  carried  around  the  part  in 
opposite  directions  and  tied.  If  a  pin  is  used,  it  should  always  be  directed 
downwards  and  appear  to  view  at  least  twice  through  the  layers  of  muslin,  its 
point  buried* 


66 


Bandaging. 


Fio.  78— Roller  Bandage  for  fracture 
of  shoulder,  first  steps. 


Boiler  Bandage  for  fracture  of  shoulder, 
finished  bandage. 


FIO.  80 — Boiler  Bandage  for  fracture  of 
ribs  or  wounds  of  the  abdomen. 


FIO.  81— Boiler  Bandage  for  wounds  of 
shoulder,  armpit  or  axilla. 


SIZES  OF  BANDAGES 

Boiler  Bandages  vary  in  width  and  length  according  to  the  use  for  which  they 
may  bo  desired. 

The  following  sizes  are  those  most  frequently  used : 

Bandages  for  hand,  fingers  and  toes — One  inch  wide,  one  to  two  yards  in 

length. 
Bandages  for  the  head,  arms  and  legs  of  children — One  and  one-half  or  two 

inches  wide,  six  yards  in  length . 
Bandages  for  arms,  logs  and  extremities  of  adults — Two  and  one-half  inches 

wide,  seven  yards  in  length. 
Bandages  for  thigh,  groin  and  trunli — Three  inches  wide,  eight  to  ten  yards 

in  length. 


Bandaging, 


67 


FIG.  82— Koller  Bandage  for  head 
and  jaw. 


Fio.  83— Sling  for  injuries 
of  chin. 


YiQ,  84 — Boiler  Bandage  for  the.  toe,  fio.  85 — Figure-of-eight  Boiler  Band- 

begins  at  foot.  age  for  thumb,  begins  at  the  wrist. 


FIG.  86.— Bandage  for'back  of  hand  and        fig.  87— Boiler  Spiral  Bandage  for  one 
wrist,  begins  at  back  of  wrist.  finger,  begins  at  the  wrist. 


FIO.  88— Spiral  Bandage  for  fingers  and  fig.  89— Spiral  Bandage  of  all  the  fin- 
hand,  begin  at  fingers,  bandage  fin-  gers,  useful  in  fracture  or  dislocation, 
gers  first.  bums  or  weunds,  bogins  nt  tho  v  rlst. 


68  Transportation  of  Wounded. 

TRANSPORTATION  OF  WOUNDED. 

Where  tho  patient  haK  been  rond(»red  unable  to  walk  alone  he  may  be  earfied 
])y  tlio  bystandi^FH  making  oithor  the  two  or  four-handed  seats.   ^ 

Thi"  foui-handod  seat  is  mad<3  l)y  two  persons  clasping  oacn  other's  wrists  as 
siiowu  in  Fig.  90. 


FKJ.  i)0 — Four- Handed  Seat. 

After  the  hands  are  clasixul  togetlior,  the  bearers  stoop  down  behind  the 
patient,  who  sits  on  the  handw,  and  at  the  saniti  time  places  one  arm  around  the 
neck  of  (4U!h  b<»arer. 

The  two-handed  seat  is  made  by  two  b(Mirers  clasping  their  hands  and  plaoing 
thi^ir  free  liands  on  each  other's  Kiiould<jrs. 

In  (jaso  of  tho  patient  being  a  sliort  person,  the  bearers  should  place  thehr 
hands  on  eacrh  other's  liips  instead  of  on  the  shoulders. 

Tliift  iiind  of  seat  may  be  used  to  iift  a  h(^lpless  patient  from  a  chair  to  tho  bed. 

A  bc^arer  stands  on  (^acfi  side  of  tjie  patient,  and  passes  one  arm  under  his 
kne(is  and  clasps  the  hand  of  tho  other  bc^arer.  Tho  bearers  then  pass  their  arms 
round  tli(^  ba(;k  ol'  the  patient  and  grasp  each  other's  shoulder. 

One  bearer  may  (^arry  a  patient  by  tho  ordinary  "pick-a-back"  method,  or  as 
follows: 

The  bearer  stoops  down  in  front  of  the  patient  and  passes  his  right  arm 
betweiMi  the  patitMit's  legs,  who  then  fails  across  the  bearer's  back,  so  that 
his  right  arm  (M)iiies  in  front  of  tini  b»)ar(^r's  left  arm.  Tho  patient  is  kept  from 
falling  by  the  bearer  holding  his  riglit  leg  and  right  arm. 

Th(;  plan  of  carrying  lh<^  patient  by  the  arms  and  legs  with  the  face  down- 
wards commonly  called  "frog'n  march"  must  never  be  used,  as  dc^ath  may  ensue 
from  this  treatment. 

Where  a  prop(>r  stretcher  (cannot  be  obtained,  a  temporary  one  may  be  made. 

The  sleeves  of  a  coat  may  be  turned  insid<^ ;  two  stout  poles  are  then  passed 
through  them  and  the  coat  buttone<l. 

TIkj  patient  sits  on  this,  antl  rests  against  the  back  of  the  llrst  bearer. 

If  a  longer  stretcher  be  re(iuire<l,  two  coats  must  be  treated  in  the  same  way. 

Two  sacks  may  be  taken ;  a  hole  is  nmde  In  eac^h  corner  of  the  bottom,  and 
two  poles  passed  through  the  sack  and  out  of  tlui  holes. 


Trani^ortation  of  Wounded. 


69 


Fia.  91— Stretcher  for  use  in  Mines. 


Pio.  92 — Harness  for  Carrying  up 
and  down  Ladder. 


A  broad  board  or  shutter  may  be  employed  as  a  stretcher ;  but  if  either  of 
them  be  used,  some  straw,  hay,  or  clothing  should  be  placed  on  it,  and  then  a 
piece  of  stout  cloth  or  sacking ;  the  sacking  is  useful  in  taking  the  patient  off  the 
stretcher  when  he  arrives  at  the  bed-side. 

Always  test  a  stretcher  before  placing  the  patient  on  it.  Place  an  uninjured 
bystander  upon  it  and  let  the  bearers  carry  him  a  short  distance,  practicing  placing 
him  upon  it,  laying  down,  raising  up,  turning  around,  etc. 

Never  allow  stretchers  to  be  carried  on  the  bearers'  shoulders. 

Always  carry  patient  feet  foremost,  excep*-  when  going  up  a  hill.  In  cases  of 
fractured  thigh  or  fractured  leg,  if  the  patient  has  to  be  carried  down  hill,  carry 
the  stretcher  head  Arst. 

In  carrying  a  patient  on  a  stretcher,  care  should  be  taken  to  avoid  lifting  the 
stretcher  over  walls,  hedges,  or  ditches. 

The  following  method  of  carrying  a  patient  by  a  single  bearer  is  that  suggested 
by  Dr.  Henry  W.  Moore,  Major  and  Surgeon  O.  N.  G. 


Tran^M)rialion  of  Wounded* 


"The  bearer  drope  to  ht^  lf3ft  knee,  liavinpf  liis  right  thigh  hDrizontal,  the  leg 
maklug  an  atigle  somewhat  loss  than  a  right  angle  with  the  thigh,  and  seats  the 
person  on  hlB  thigh*  The  patient's  h^ft  ami  is  around  the  bearer*B  neck,  his  right 
hand  Oil  the  bearer's  left  shoulder.  The  bearer'e  right  arm  is  around  the  patient's 
i^aiet,  and  his  l^ft  forearm  under  the  j>atlent's  knet^s.  The  bearer  is  ijow  earef ul 
to  have  his  back  vertical,  risesj  ugiog  the  great  muecles  oa  the  front  of  his  thighs. 
The  back  is  not  to  be  used  in  lifting  at  all^  and  if  the  vertical  position  is  main- 
tained j  It  will  not  be.  Bevers^irig  this  position  may  be  advisable  on  account  of 
the  location  of  iajuries  or  dmabllities  or  to  aceommodate  a  left  handed  bearer." 

Whea  necessary  for  a  single  bearer  to  carry  an  Inj  ured  pcfson  up,  or  down  a 
ladder  (as  in  a  mine)  the  simple  method  devised  by  Dr,  E*  Hamilton  Fish,  of 
Ouray,  Colorado,  may  be  utied.     (See  Pig.  92),     It  is  as  foUowB : 

The  apparatus  is  a  harness  consist- 
ing of  a  biTtad  chest  band  about  sis  or 
eight  inches  wide,  buckling  in  front  by 
three  or  four  straps.  To  this  Is  firmly 
riveted  two  tshoidder  straps  two  and  one- 
half  inches  in  width,  leaving  a  eufflclently 
large  arm  hole.  Two  inches  fixim  the  top 
of  the  eh  est  band  and  to  the  left  eide  is 
riveted  a  two  ineli  band  to  surround  the 
patients  catching  a  ring  upon  the  right 
yide  of  the  band  by  meant4  of  a  snapper. 

On  the  left  side,  and  about  the  center 
of  the  band,  is  riveted  a  sling  four  to  six 
inches  in  width  and  about  three  feet  six 
Inches  lung,  the  free  end  being  supx^ied 
with  a  heavy  snapper,  which  Is  snapped 
Into  a  ring  upon  the  right  side  of  tiie 
chest  bandi  Two  small  thigh  snaps  are 
fastened  to  the  sling  firmly  supporting 
the  patient  upon  the  sling  seat,  Tliis 
harness  is  made  entirely  of  heavy  leather 
and  steel  fastenings.  The  bearer  applies 
the  ehei^t  band  as  one  wot; Id  put  on  a 
vest,  the  band  and  sling  hanging  free. 
The  patient  then  faeea  the  bearer's  back 
with  the  arms  placed  about  his  neck  or  waist.  The  sliug  is  tiien  pati^sed  behind 
the  patient's  thighs,  the  thigh  straps  buckled,  and  snapped  to  thn  ring  on  the 
rigiit  side  of  the  chest  band.  He  then  assumes  h  aitting  pOsturi\  the  sling  sup- 
porting his  weigiit.  The  legs  should  be  separated  to  admit  those  of  the  bearer 
between.  The  band  is  then  passed  behind  the  patient's  back  and  snapped  Into  the 
sling  ring  preventing  his  falling  backward.  This  harnest^  relieves  the  strain  from 
the  patifint  and  enables  the  bearer  to  sustain  the  weight  from  the  shoulders. 

BIjakkbt  LiTTBii. — ^In  addition  to  the  methods  suggested  above  for  trans- 
portation of  in|urcd  persons,  a  blanket  litter  devised  by  Acting  Assistant  Surgeon. 
G,  E.  McDonald,  cotu mends  itself  by  its  elmpUcity,  as  it  oan  ba  Improvised  under 
almost  any  olraumBtanees* 


—Blanket  Litter* 


Preparation  for  Reception  of  AcciderU    Cases,  71 

The  method  requires  the  service  of  two  bearers  and  the  use  of  two  blankets. 
Each  blanket  is  folded,  rolled  or  twisted  into  a  cylindrical  form,  as  shown  in  Fig. 
94.  The  two  cylinders  are  placed  side  by  side  and  their  ends  are  tied  together  by 
reef  knots.  The  bearers  then  raise  the  tied  blanket  rolls,  adjusting  them  with 
one  knot  on  the  right  shoulder  of  the  right  bearer,  and  the  other  on  the  left 


Fio.  94. 
shoulder  of  the  left  bearer,  as  shown  in  Fig.  93.  To  transport  the  patient  the 
bearers  kneel,  the  right  bearer  on  his  left  knee,  the  left  bearer  on  his  right  knee ; 
the  cylinder  is  pulled  apart  so  as  to  foim  a  sitting  space  of  six  or  eight  inches  be- 
tween the  rolls,  and  the  patient,  supported  by  the  arms  of  the  bearers,  is  placed 
upon  this  space  for  transportation.  By  this  method  one  arm  of  each  bearer  is 
free  for  any  emergency. 


PREPARATION  FOR  RECEPTION  OF  ACCIDENT 

CASES. 

Where  the  patient  is  to  be  removed  to  a  private  house  instead  of  a  hospital, 
preparations  should  be  made  as  far  as  possible  before  the  injured  person  is 
brought  in.  Such  preparations  will  vary  according  to  the  nature  and  extent  of  the 
injury,  but  the  following  hints  will  be  of  value : 

A  room  should  be  chosen  which  can  be  easily  reached,  as  it  is  difficult  to  carry 
an  injured  person  through  narrow  passages  and  up  stairs. 

The  way  to  the  room  must  be  cleared  of  furniture  and  all  loose  mats  in  the 
hall  or  lobbies.  If  the  injured  person  is  carried  on  a  stretcher,  a  couple  of  strong 
kitchen  chairs  should  be  placed  ready  to  support  it,  wherever  the  bearers  would 
be  likely  to  require  rest. 

Useless  furniture  should  be  removed  from  the  bed-room.  The  bed  should  be 
drawn  out  from  the  wall  so  that  both  sides  can  be  approached,  and  the  clothes 
turned  back  to  one  side  to  their  full  length.  A  hot  water  bottle  should  be 
ready.  If  there  is  much  collapse,  several  such  bottles  and  hot  blankets  may  be 
may  be  required ;  cover  the  hot  bottles  with  flannel. 

If  the  injury  is  very  severe,  if  mud-stained  clothes  have  to  be  removed,  or  if 
extensive  dressings  have  to  be  applied,  a  firm,  long  table  should  be  placed  near  the 
bed  to  lay  the  sufferer  on  in  the  first  instance.  This  should  be  so  arranged  that 
soiling  may  do  no  harm ;  old  sheets,  waterproof  material,  or  even  newspapers, 
used  as  a  protection. 

A  firm  mattress,  not  a  feather  bed,  should  be  selected.  If  there  is  much  in" 
jury,  or  if  the  dressings  have  to  be  applied,  a  draw-sheet  should  be  placed  on  the 
bed.  It  should  be  of  four  or  more  thicknesses,  extend  across  the  bed,  and  reach 
from  the  middle  of  the  patient's  back  to  the  knees.  A  piece  of  waterproof  sheet 
ing  or  oilcloth  should  be  placed  under  the  draw-sheet.  As  the  draw-shoet 
becomes  soiled,  the  soiled  portion  should  be  rolled  up  and  a  clean  part  drawn 
gmoothly  under  the  patient. 


72  Prejxiraiion  for  JReception  of  Accident  (7as«? 

In  fracture  of  the  leg  or  thigh,  sprained  anlsle,  and  some  other  cases,  a 
** cradle"  should  be  improvised.  The  use  of  a  "cradle"  is  to  support  the  bed- 
clothes and  keep  them  from  pressing  on  the  limb.  Band-boxes,  throo-lcggcd 
stools,  and  similar  articles  may  be  used.  A  corkscrew  passed  through  the  bed- 
clothes with  its  point  guarded  by  a  cork,  and  tied  by  a  string  to  the  bod  or  a  nail 
in  the  wall,  will  relieve  the  pressure  of  the  bed-clothes  effectually. 

In  taking  clothes  off  an  injured  person  a  few  rules  should  be  borne  in  mind. 

In  serious  cases  it  is  much  better  to  sacrifice  the  clothes  than  to  run  any  risk 
of  increasing  the  injury. 

In  removing  a  coat,  etc.,  in  case  of  a  fractured  arm,  the  uninjured  arm  should 
be  drawn  out  first. 

In  putting  on  anything  the  injured  arm  should  be  put  in  first. 

In  bums  and  scalds  nothing  should  ever  be  dragged  off.  A  sharp  i)air  of 
scissors  should  be  used,  and  everything  not  adhering  should  be  cut  away.  If  any- 
thing adheres,  it  should  be  left  until  medical  aid  can  be  obtained.  The  clothing 
adhering  may,  with  advantage,  be  soaked  with  oil.  To  remove  the  trousers  from 
a  severely  injured  limb,  the  outside  seam  should  be  ripped. 

A  fire  in  the  room  will  generally  be  of  service,  even  in  summer.  There  should 
bo  plenty  of  water,  both  hot  and  cold,  also  several  basins  (stoneware  or  enameled 
preferred),  plenty  of  clean  towels  and  soap.  There  should  be  slop  jars  or  pails  to 
empty  water  into ;  a  foot-bath  will  be  useful.  The  basins  should  be  placed  on  a 
table,  covered  with  a  towel.  Towels  folded  up  should  be  placed  on  the  same  table, 
and  the  hot  and  cold  water  should  be  within  easy  reach. 

A  new  nail  brush,  scissors,  safety  pins  and  needles  are  sure  to  be  wanted. 

In  the  case  of  a  burn,  absorbent  cotton,  soft  cloths,  old  linen,  oil  and  bicar- 
bonate of  soda  (baking  soda)  should  be  ready. 

In  the  case  of  bleeding ;  sponges,  plenty  of  hot  water  and  several  basins  should 
be  ready. 

In  the  case  of  a  person  rescued  from  drownlnec,  the  sheets  should  be  taken  off 
the  bed,  plenty  of  blankets  should  be  heated  before  the  fire  and  several  hot  water 
bottles  should  be  ready. 


Contagiou8  Diseases  73 

CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES 

Infectious  or  contagious  diseases  are  spread  by  means  of  minute  particles  of 
matter  called  germs,  given  off  from  the  body  of  the  diseased  person,  and  may  be 
passed  from  infected  persons  to  furniture  and  clothing,  or  And  their  way  out  into 
water,  food  and  air,  and  may  be  introduced  into  the  system  by  breathing,  eating 
and  drinlthig,  or  through  the  sliin. 

In  these  diseases  certain  parts  of  the  body  are  breeding  places  for  disease- 
producing  germs,  thus  discharges  from  these  parts  give  them  off  in  the  greatest 
amount.  The  manner  by  which  the  more  common  contagious  diseases  are  spread 
is  shown  in  the  following  list : 

Small-pox — From  the  pustules ;  the  contagion  is  very  diffusive  and  continues 
for  a  long  time  in  the  scab. 

Scarlet  fever — From  the  mouth,  throat,  noso  and  skin ;  from  the  breath  and 
saliva. 

Diphtheria — From  discharges  of  the  mouth,  throat  and  nose.  The  spittle, 
wet  or  dry,  is  very  dangerous,  as  particles  of  the  membrane  may  be  carried  and 
impart  the  disease  at  great  distances. 

Measles — From  the  mouth,  throat  and  skin.  Very  communicable  from  the 
breath  when  laden  with  infectious  partich^s  expelled  in  coughing. 

Whooping  Cough — From  the  sputum.  Infectious  particles  arc  expelled  by 
coughing  and  carried  through  the  air. 

Typhoid  Fever — From  discharges  of  bowels  or  urinary  organs.  Water,  milk 
and  food  absorb  and  convey  these  discharges. 

Consumption — From  the  spittle.  Dried  spittle  forms  a  very  frequent  source 
of  Infection  in  this  disease. 

Typhus  Fever — From  the  breath  directly  and  by  eruption. 

Yellow  Fever — From  the  clothing,  utensils,  etc.,  or  by  Insects. 

Cholera — From  discharges  from  the  bowels. 

Sore  Throat — From  the  breath  by  Inhalation  or  from  contact. 

Mumps — From  the  spittle,  conveyable  at  short  distances. 

Skin  diseases — From  cloths,  towels,  combs,  brushes,  etc. 

Sore  Eyes  -From  discharges,  conveyed  through  towels,  etc. 

Pneumonia — This  disease  Is  said  to  be  conveyable  through  the  spittle. 

Contagious  and  Infectious  diseases  may  be  controlled,  prevented  and  ulti- 
mately eradicated  by  the  use  of  systematic  means. 

Isolation  and  disinfection  are  the  most  Important  means  for  the  prevention  of 
the  spread  of  contagious  and  Infectious  disease. 

Isolation  means  the  separation  of  the  sick  from  the  well. 


A  series  of  pamphlets  and  bulletins  upon  tne  subject  of  contagious  diseases  are  issued  by 
Johnson  &  Johnson,  the  publishers  of  this  Manual.  They  are  all  written  from  the  standpoint  of 
the  best  authorities  upon  sanitation  and  embrace  the  latest  and  best  known  methods  used  by 
Health  Boards  in  combating  contagious  and  infectious  disease. 

The  directions  given  in  these  bulletins  are  plain  and  simple,  yet  the  most  effective  of  the 
known  methods.  They  Include  methods  of  Isolation,  prevention  of  the  spread  of  disease,  hints 
on  nursing  in  contagious  disease,  and  methods  of  disinfection  with  copious  illustrations,  etc. 

The  disinfectants  and  articles  named  In  these  bulletins  are  easily  procurable  and  can  be 
used  with  safety  and  effectiveness  by  ordinary  persons. 

In  times  of  epidemics  it  would  be  an  act  of  good  Judgment  to  obtain  copies  of  these  bulletins 
and  distribute  them  throughout  the  community.    The  list  is  as  follows : 

No.  18— "A  Book  with  a  Mission  "—Illustrated  booklet  of  thirty-two  pages  giving  brief  sug- 
gestions applicable  to  all  of  the  more  common  contagious  diseases. 

No.  28— Diphtheria  bulletin,  illustrated,  eight  pages. 

No.  29— Typhoid  Fever  bulletin,  illustrated,  eight  pages. 

No.  38— Meningitis  bulletin.  Illustrated,  eight  pages. 

No.  39— Scarlet  Fever  bulletin,  illustrated,  eight  pages. 

No.  40— Measles  bulletin,  illustrated,  eight  pages. 

No.  56 — Consumption  bulletin,  illustrated,  eight  pages. 

No.  67— Small-pox  bulletin,  illustrated,  showing  typical  forms  of  small-pox,  hints  on  vacci- 
nation, nursing,  etc. ;  sixteen  pages. 

No.  43— -Whooping  Oough  bulletin,  illustrated,  eight  pages. 

No.  44  A— Sick-room  Rules,  specific  rules  printed  on  a  card  intended  to  b«  hung  in  the  sick- 
room  at  the  time  of  contagious  diseases. 


74  Disinsection 

The  following  suggestions  condensed  from  ••  A  Book  with  a  Mission  "  for 
isolation  and  care  of  the  sick  should  be  observed  : 

The  sick  room  should  be  separated  as  much  as  possible  from  the  other  rooms 
of  the  house.     If  there  is  more  than  one  door,  lock  all  but  one. 

Over  the  door  to  be  used,  tack  a  sheet  in  the  form  of  a  curtain.  Sprinkle  this 
sheet  occasionally  with  the  disinfecting  solution,  Camphenol. 

Keep  the  room  always  well  aired,  yet  keep  it  at  as  nearly  an  even  tempeiu- 
ture  as  possible. 

Let  the  direct  sunlight  in  unless  it  seems  to  hurt  the  patient's  eyes. 

Bedding  should  be  changed  frequently.  Throw  the  soiled  bed-clothes  into  a 
tub  or  pail  containing  a  solution  of  Camphenol  (one  teaspoonful  of  Camphenol  to 
one  quart  of  water)  before  removing  them  from  the  room.  In  taking  the  soiled 
bedding  from  the  room  to  be  washed,  wrap  it  in  a  sheet  dampened  with  this  Cam- 
phenol solution. 

All  dishes,  cups,  glasses,  spoons  and  utensils  which  have  been  in  the  sick- 
room, should  be  disinfected  before  being  taken  from  the  room.  Scalding  hot 
water  with  Camphenol  solution  should  be  used. 

Toys,  shears,  vases,  combs,  brushes,  or  anything  handled  by  or  that  has  come 
near  the  patient  should  likewise  be  disinfected. 

It  is  a  good  and  safe  rule  in  these  diseases  to  consider  that  everything  that 
has  been  carried  into  the  sick-room  has  become  infected  and  needs  disinfecting 
before  being  carried  out  and  used  elsewhere. 

The  dishes  which  the  patient  uses  should  not  be  used  by  others  or  washed 
with  other  dishes. 

All  articles  of  food  should  be  burned,  or  else  mixed  with  Camphenol  and 
buried. 

The  bodily  discharges  from  the  sick  should  all  be  considered  dangerous. 

Excreta  from  bowels  or  kidneys  should  be  immediately  covered  with  a  solu- 
tion of  Camphenol  (one  tablespoonf  ul  Camphenol  to  one  pint  of  water). 

The  discharges  should  never  be  thrown  where  they  might  contaminate  a  run- 
ning stream.  They  should  not  be  buried  within  one  hundred  feet  of  a  well  or 
spring. 

Vessels  used  to  catch  discharges  should  be  thoroughly  disinfected  with  boil- 
ing water  containing  a  tablespoonful  of  Camphenol  in  each  pint. 

During  the  progress  of  any  contagious  disease  the  rooms,  other  than  those 
used  by  the  sick,  should  be  disinfected  occasionally  in  order  to  prevent  the  spread 
of  infection  and  also  destroy  odors.  This  may  be  accomplished  by  using  the 
Lister's  Fumigators. 

To  Deodorize  a  Sick  or  Living  Koom : — One  Lister's  Fumigator  in  the  room 
will  be  quite  sufficient.  In  such  cases  it  is  not  necessary  to  close  the  windows  or 
doors,  although  more  efficient  work  will  be  done  if  this  caution  is  observed.  At 
any  rate,  the  windows,  and  other  vents  may  be  opened  as  soon  as  the  candle  has 
burned  out.  This  procedure  is  fully  thorough  enough  to  destroy  the  odors  of 
tobacco  smoke,  dampness  or  mould,  odors  arising  from  crowded  quarters,  noxious 
vapors,  etc. 

In  the  sick  room  Casino  Pastils  may  be  used  from  time  to  time.  These  will 
purify  the  atmosphere  and  leave  a  pleasant  odor. 

Casino  Pastils  are  small  squares  of  combustible  material  in  which  is  incor- 
porated a  combination  of  cresylic  acid,  camphor,  oil  of  cassia,  etc.,  blended  with 
aromatics.  Upon  lighting,  there  is  evolved  a  vapor  which  is  a  germ-destroying 
agent  and  deodorizer.  The  vapor  is  so  mild,  however,  that  removal  of  the  patient 
from  the  room  is  not  necessary. 

DISINFECTION 

The  most  important  point  in  the  prevention  of  spread  of  disease  is  the  disin- 
fection of  rooms  in  which  sickness  of  any  infectious  or  contagious  nature  has  been. 
After  recovery  or  death  of  the  patient,  before  being  used  the  i*oom  should  bo 
thoroughly  disinfected.  For  this  purpose  the  following  suggestions  will  be  found 
useful.  They  are  coinpilod  from  the  use  of  experienced  physicians  and  health 
officers. 


Dmn/edion  75 

Bum  all  ttHjlolefil  of  no  particular  value  which  hAr^  beeii  u^ed  by  the  sick 
|)ei*son. 

All  artiolos  which  havo  been  in  the  room  during  th<3  sickness  shduld  be  left 
for  disinfection. 

All  articles  of  clothing,  bedding,  cloths,  etc.,  which  can  be  washed  should  be 
immersed  in  a  solution  of  carbolic  acid  or  Camphenol  (sixteen  tablespoonfuls  of 
Camphenol  to  a  pail  of  water). 

All  articles  should  be  spread  out  or  arranged  so  as  to  be  well  exposed  to  the 
germ-destroying  gas.  Carpets  should  be  taken  up  and  laid  out  on  chairs.  All 
doors,  windows,  fire-places,  flues,  kej^holes  aad  small  openings  should  be  closed 
with  strips  of  paper  pasted  over  them.  What  is  known  as  Johnson's  Sulphur 
Fumigator  or  Lister's  Formaldehyde  Fumigator  maybe  used  for  disinfection.  Two 
of  Johnson's  Sulphur  Fumigators  should  be  used  to  an  ordinary  size  room. 


SULPHUR  DISINFECTION 

Sulphur,  from  its  cheapness  and  harmlessness,  has  long  been  the  most  popular 
disinfectant.  Modern  research  has  produced  agents  more  certainly  efifective,  yet 
sulphur  d(istroys  nearly  all  disease-making  microbes. 

Disinfection  by  sulphur  has  been  for  a  long  time  found  troublesome  and 
dangerous.     The  reason  for  this  was  that  sulphur  was 
"^^^l^vS      rOii^  ^        ^^  difiBcult  to  set  alight.     A  large  fire  was  required  and 
^^w '?     Vifei'X'^       elaborate  precautions  as  to  containing  vessel,  etc. 

^^iW  ^^s^^  All  this  trouble  has  been  done  away  with  since  the 

production  of  the  Johnson  Sulphur  Fumigator.  This 
consists,  as  shown  in  illustration,  of  sulphur  enclosed  in 
a  fire-pi-oof  box.  Thus  danger  is  eliminated,  the  caudle 
may  be  burned  anywhere.  The  difficulty  of  lighting  is 
overcome  by  the  provision  of  a  wick  which  only  needs 
touching  with  a  lighted  match,  and  from  which  the 
whole  mass  of  the  sulphur  will  light. 
Not  only  Is  Johnson's  Fumigator  thoroughly  practical,  but  It  affords  without 
trouble  the  best  results  theoretically  possible. 

For  occasional  disinfection,  also,  Johnson's  Fumigators  are  found  vei'y  effica- 
cious. If  one  fumigator  is  burned  at  intervals  In  cellars,  stables,  outhouses,  etc., 
diseases  will  be  effectually  prevented  and  all  Insect  life  destroyed . 

Sulphurous  acid  is  a  particularly  effective  germicide,  and  placing  these  fumi- 
gators in«a  shallow  pan  of  water,  the  water  being  allowed  to  fill  the  pan  to  about 
one-half  of  the  side  of  the  fumigator,  there  will  follow  a  votalization  of  the  water 
and  a  consequent  union  of  the  sulphur  fumes  and  moisture,  with  a  productloii  of 
sulphurous  acid.  It  Is  well  to  observe  that  the  pan  or  vessel  in  which  the  fumi- 
gators are  placed  should  be  quite  large  in  circumference  In  order  to  keep  up  a 
supply  of  moisture.  Four  of  the  small  fumigators  used  In  this  manner  will  votallze 
over  one  pint  of  water. 

Like  formaldehyde,  sulphur  may  be  be  used  to  free  a  room  from  mosquitoes 
or  other  insects.     It  will  destroy  all  sorts  of  Insects  with  absolute  certainty. 

Johnson's  Sulphur  Fumigators  are  supplied  in  two  sizes,  a  10  cent  and  a  25 
cent  size. 

Two  of  Johnson's  Sulphur  Fumigators  should  be  used  to  an  ordinary  size 
room. 

After  the  candles  have  been  lighted,  the  doors  should  be  closed  for  fully 
twenty-four  hours  after  fumigation. 


n 


imnfectiM 


Afi^rlbe  !*0ftJll4iaS  b«3^tt  thoroni^hly  aired,  all 
the  furniture,  wiigdwork,  waDs,  cciljnga  and  the 
lloor  should  be  brushed  over  with  usti^u^  sohitlon 
of  C^mphenol,  Rtid  furthfirniorc^Bhould  be  serubbed 
^viih  eoap  and  hot  water.  The  walls  should  be 
iNiltitecl  over  with  two  coatB  of  while  WHSh,  and 
Ihiaily  left  open  to  air  and  bocorue  thorouj^'hly  dry. 

To  deodvMizfj  the  aick  i^om^  a  prei>n,ration 
kiKiWti  as  Casino  PafltllB  Is  advlBGd.  These  wiU 
purify  the  atmosphere  and  leave  a  pleasant  odor. 


LISTER'S  FUMIGATORS 

This  is  a  candle  enclosed  in  a  flr^'proof  ease, 
If  set  on  a  plate  and  lighted  th^*  room  will  at  once  be 

fllliid  with  geum- 


■^* 


LlBtei's  FormaJdohyde  Fumlga'oi* 

case  Si  for  purifying  cel- 
lars, outhouses,  and  iJi 
times  of  housecleainng, 
for  ridding  premises  or 
Insects,  moulds  ami 
foul  odoi^. 

A  brief  snniioary  o[ 
the  advantages  of  Lis- 
ter's Fumigator  may  b'* 
made  as  follows : 

They  give  off  a  gas 
w  h  i  c h  is  the  moet 
powerful  and  effe<.^tl\y 
fumigating  agent 
known. 

They  will  not  ta?- 
nish  silver,  eoriTKh' 
metals,  roughen  pol- 
ished wood  or  harm 
delicate  cloth  fabrics. 

They  are  not  dan- 
gerous or  poisonous. 

The  vapors  can  be 
easily  gotton  rid  of. 


destroying 
pors. 

Listeria 
Fnniigators  are 
AveLl  established  as  the  simijlefet,  inoiit  uffoctive 
an  d  *.■  h  eape  st  ni  e  an  s  of  d  i&ln  fcotlon ,  Th  ey  affotil 
a  means  whereby  every  house  and  every  room 
can  easily  be  disinfected  during  and  after  every 
ease  of  infectiou3  disease. 

Health  olTleers^  Boards  of  Health  and  other 
authorities  have  adopted  this  method  of  using 
formaldehyde,  It  being  cheaper  and  easier  than 
the  complicated  apparatus  now  in  use. 

School    superintendents,    railroads,    hote 
keepers  and  person k  in  charge  of  public  pla 
bave  fniind  this  a  reatly  means  of  destroying 
foul  odors  and  preventing  contagion. 

Housekeepers  and  the  public  generally  have 
suer'pRsfully  used  Lister's  Fumigators  for  dJs- 
hifecl  ion    in  Imusj^^s  in  times  of  contatiious  dts- 


■^*-~ 


H 


'&-\l 


Hi 


^Mi 


I>JflJnt«;Ung  fivmi  with  Lister's  Fiimlj,ratfU\  showing  method 
sealing  rti-nrt*  nnd  wlndowB  nnd  oponlng  out  contents  of  rim^iaa. 


or 


They  are  so  compact  that  several  may  be  carried  In  the  pocket  at  a  time, 
Th^y  sre  bo  powerful  that  one  candle  v^ill  isuffl.ee  tor  aia  otdlix^ry  room, 
Thej  are  easy  to  operate  and  in  no^^^iangerona. 
They  are  the  most  deadly  enemy J^^^HI^^S^^^^'    TYiey  Kt^e\vba^i, 


Disinfection 


77 


Camphcnol  is  a  liquid  disinfectant  which  is  in  large  use  by  physicians,  boards 
of  health  and  institutions. 

Gamphenol  is  a  true  and  effective  disinfectant,  a  reliable  destroyer  of  disease 
germs.  CJomphenol  will  not  destroy  or  injure  clothing,  fabrics  or  furniture;  it 
leaves  no  stain. 

Gamphenol  is  put  up  in  eight-ounce  (half  pint)  bottles  and  in  one-ounce  bot- 
tles.    The  large  size  when  diluted  according  to  directions  furnishes  from  three  to 
six  gallons  of  efficient  disinfecting  fluid.    This  style  is  sold  at  retail  for  fifty  cents 
per  bottle. 

The  one-ounce  size  upon  dilution  furnishes  from  one 
to  three  quarts  of  disinfecting  solution.  The  retail  price 
of  the  small  size  is  ten  cents  a  bottle. 

A  bottle  or  a  solution  of  Gamphenol  should  be  kept 
always  at  hand  in  the  sick  room  for  disinfecting  soiled 
clothes  or  bedding,  or  for  washing  walls  or  furniture  to 
be  certain  of  cleanliness. 

Garbage  barrels  and  rubbish  heaps  should  be  fre- 
quently wet  down  with  four  tablespoonf uls  of  Gamphenol 
mixed  with  two  quarts  of  water. 

A  solution  of  Gamphenol,  eight  tablespoonf  uls  to  one 
quart  of  water,  sprinkled  or  poured  over  places  where 
dampness  and  foul  odors  collect,  will  destroy  growth, 
quench  odors  and  tend  to  keep  away  disease. 

In  contagious  diseases,  a  solution  of  Gamphenol 
(sixteen  tablespoonf  uls  to  a  large  pail  of  water)  should 
be  kept  standing  in  the  sick  room  ready  for  use. 

Saturate  a  sheet  with  this  solution  and  hang  before  the 
door  to  prevent  escape  of  contagion  to  other  parts  of  the 
house.  Keep  vessels  used  In  the  sick  room  always  wet 
with  the  mixture. 

All  bedding,  or  clothes  of  any  nature  used  by  the 
sick  should  be  immersed  in  this  solution  before  being 
carried  from  the  room. 

Hands  and  face,  after  handling  the  sick  or  being  in 
the  sick  room,  should  be  washed  in  a  solution  of  Gam- 
phenol, made  with  one  tablespoonful  Gamphenol  to  one 
quart  of  water. 

Body  of  patient  should  be  sponged  with  the  solution. 
Bodies  of  the  dead  should  be  wrapped  in  a  sheet  wet  with  a  solution  of  Gam- 
phenol, four  tablespoonfuls  of  Gamphenol  to  one  quart  of  water. 

After  recovery  or  death  every  article  In  the  room  should  be  washed  with 
Gamphenol  solution. 

Gamphenol  is  very  pleasant,  easy  and  safe  to  use  as  a  disinfectant,  and  Is 
useful  in  every  disease,  as  well  as  for  tlie  variety  of  purposes  in  the  household. 


COMMUNICABLE  DISEASES  OF  ANIMALS. 

Many  diseases  of  animals  are  more  or  less  communicable  to  man  as  well  as  to 
other  animals. 

In  these  diseases  the  danger  may  be  diminished  by  tiie  disinfection  of  things 
where  the  disease  Is  known  or  suspected  to  be  present. 

All  things  such  as  harness,  bits,  blankets  and  covers  sliould  be  disinfected. 
Straw  and  anything  else  used  In  bedding  should  bo  burned. 

Walls  of  the  stable  should  be  washed  with  a  strong  solution  of  Gamphenol 
and  hot  water,  and  where  possible  whitewashed  with  lime. 

Floors  should  be  sprinkled  with  a  solution  of  Gamphenol. 

All  well  animals  sliould  be  in  a  clean,  fvos\\  \Ai\oa^ 


n 


Disin^^dion 


D^ad  animals  should  bo  immedlatoly  disposed  ol  by  burial,  covered  with 
quicklime  to  the  dopth  of  four  Incht^i*,  then  with  Boih  There  eliauld  l>e  dtnlnjj 
and  following  the  course  of  the  diewafie  thorough  dlsinfoetion  of  the  lnfo<;ti'd 
premises,  keeping  great  eleanliness  both  of  Burroundin^a  and  food*  For  disin- 
fectants nee  unslacked  lime,  or  milk  of  lime  ov^r  affuetod  grounds  and  fionry. 
Whitewash  the  woodwork  on  the  outftide  of  the  buildlnga.  Camphenol  may  bu 
used  for  washing  harness,  hoorn,  pane,  pads,  etc. 

INSECT  BOKP^E  DISEASES 
Stnentifio  men  are  becoming  more  and  tnore  eonvlncetl  that  ia&ects,  particu- 
larlj  the  mosquito,  are  carriers  of  diesaHe.  It  hag  boon  estahli^hed  btsyotid  quni*- 
tion  that  elephantiasie,  matarial  fever  and  yellow  fever  are  spread  by  the  mosquito. 
The  insect  acts  as  a  carrier  or  go-between,  sueking  tiie  blood  of  the  sit'k  person 
and  in  due  course  carrying  the  infeetioji:  to  a  well  person  whom  it  ne3Et  bites.  Tlie 
truth  of  this  has  long  since  been  thoroughly  demonstrated. 

Iji  Cuba,  measures  directed  against  certain  s|>eeies  of  the  moBquito,  bris 
stamped  out  yellovv  fever.  The  destruction  of  the  mosquito  in  malarial  rugi.iuj 
also  iias  materially  aided  In  the  eradlcatfoa  of  the  infeetion. 

In  these  diseases,  and  in  fact  in  every  infection,  it  would  therefore  seem  to*lje 
a  wise  precaution  :— 

To  IdU  all  the  mosquitoes  in  and  around  the  sick  room* 
To  prevent  mosquitoes  from  biting  persons  who  are  sick. 
To  prevent  mosquitoes  from  biting  healthy  persons. 

For  the  destruction  of  mosquitoes  in  the  larval  stage  :    Various  rr^modies  liave 

been  suggested,  such  as  spdnkliiig  kerosene  upon  all  standi lig  wiitor  or  pooU, 

Another  method  which  has  be«*a  quite  eueeessful  is  to  disinfect  ail  pttois  i  f 

standing  water  by  some  such  disinfectant  as  Camphenol ',  thiti  will  act  both  as  a 

disinfectant  and  destroyer  of  the  mosquito  larvfe. 

To  ensure  permanent  work,  pools,  etc,  eiiould  he  drained  or  filled. 
Mosquitoes  breed  in  stagnant  water.     All  cans,  bottles  or  other  rece;>tacl<*s 
about  the  yard  or  liouse  that  collect  and  hold  water  should  be  cloan-d  out. 

For  the  destrtiction  of  the  mosi^idtoL^'^  when  Jlyirig :  Fuinlgatiou  by  means  uf 
lormaldehyde  gaa^  sulphur  dioxide  or  any  of  the  cJieniical  a^^^ynts. 

For  house  or  ii>om  use,  the  employment  of 
these  latter  agents  has  been  advised. 

The  unplt^asantuess  of  tlie  odors,  however,  U 
a  somewhat  objcciionahie  feature. 

To  obviate  the  difliculty,  aiKl  at  the  same  thno 
to  secure  the  benefits  of  gapt'ons  d:suft^ction.  ve 
liave  devised  a  dieinficting  candle  which  we  bavj 
named  Wood's  Fumlgator* 

Wood 's  F 1 1  miga  to  I  s  a  re  sm  all  py  r  a  rn  sd  -  s  b  ap  d 
candlee^,  giving  off  fuints  which,  altiiough  uot 
strong  or  violent  enough  to  be  daiigenniii  to  bumaa 
beings  or  animals,  havn  been  foand  to  be  especially 
obnoxious  to  nu)s?quitoos, 

W land's  Fumigatora  offer  the  simplest  aitd  l^y 
far  the  most  eiTective  methi>d  for  OiLiryin;;  i  ut  tlie 
necCHsary  p re\  e n tl  ve  m ca s u r<  9.  In  a  1  d  (i bo u  1 1 ; ,  0 
sick-jTotim  nothing  could  be  so  convrnient.  Thrir 
odor  is  nttt  unplea.synt  and  not  dajigcrotiis ;  Ihiy 
tmiy  need  lobe  set  *in  a  jilrLte  and  touchi'd  iit  the 
tip  with  a  n^atch.  It  is  strongly  ndvitiablo  th^it  one 
of  the  Fumigatoi-s  be  burned  ia  ^  arh  roi>m  tit  lea^t 
(tnce  a  week. 

Til  disinfect  clothings  hum  ono  of  Wood's  Purai- 
gftlors  In  the  wardnrtbi:',  IMng  suje  to  shut  ditor 
tightly,  Htuffing  keyhole  and  pa^sung  paper  over 
any  cmi'ks. 
Small  rooms  and  trunks  may  be  dif^infecteil  in  tho  same  way. 
Wf>od's  Fumlgators  are  snld  by  druggists  at  H)  cents  each. 


Poisona.  79 

POISONS. 

Poisons  are  substances  which,  taken  into  the  system  in  small  quantities,  will 
produce  death  or  serious  disorder. 

The  symptoms  of  the  various  poisons  differ  according  to  the  individual  sub 
stance.  As  a  general  rule  without  medical  training,  it  is  impossible  to  distin- 
guish them  as  some  of  the  substances  have  a  combined  action,  both  irritant 
and  systemic. 

Poisons,  however,  may  be  roughly  classified  as  follows : 

1.  Irritating  poisons  in  which  the  symptoms  appear  entirely  at  the  location 
of  the  poison. 

2.  General  poisons,  in  which  the  poison  affects  the  system  at  large  in  addition 
to  producing  local  irritation. 

3.  Narcotic  or  sleep-producing  poisons. 

4.  General  poisons,  in  which  there  is  no  local  irritation. 

In  the  first  mentioned  cases  it  is  best  not  to  cause  vomiting.  Give  dilute 
acids  to  neutralize  alkalies,  and  dilute  alkalies  to  neutralize  acids.  Follow  with 
soothing  drinks  of  oil,  raw  eggs,  and  flour  and  water.  Give  opiates  to  quiet  pain, 
and  whiskey  or  brandy  to  relieve  the  weakness. 

In  the  second  class  (except  in  cases  of  arsenic)  no  emetic  should  be  given. 
The  effect  of  the  poison  is  best  counteracted  by  bland  doses  of  oil,  fiour  and 
water,  white  of  egg,  and  the  like,  while  stimulating  drinks  should  be  given  to 
counteract  depression.  The  treatment  of  arsenic  is  peculiar  to  itself  and  should 
be  studied  individually  in  the  tables. 

In  the  third  class,  sleep-producing  poisons,  after  producing  repeated  vomiting, 
make  the  patient  drink  strong  coffee  and  other  stimulating  drinks,  and  use  every 
available  means  to  keep  him  awake. 

In  the  fourth  class,  general  poisons,  give  an  emetic,  follow  this  with  stimu- 
lating drinks  to  relieve  weakness ;  give  opiates  to  relieve  pain,  and  put  the  patient 
to  rest. 

EMETICS. 

In  most  cases  the  most  important  step  is  to  empty  the  stomach.  Substances 
used  for  this  purpose  are  called  emetics. 

Medical  men  administer  ipecac,  apomorphine,  sulphate  of  zinc,  tartar  emetic, 
and  other  drugs.  The  readily  available  means  of  producing  vomiting,  here  given, 
may  be  employed  while  awaiting  their  arrival. 

Give  a  tumbler  of  warm  water  with  a  tablespoonful  of  ground  dry  mustard 
stirred  into  it.  If  not*  successful  in  producing  vomiting,  follow  this  with  a  second 
tumblerful  of  the  mixture,  then  push  the  forefinger  as  far  down  the  throat  as 
possible,  and  keep  it  there  until  the  patient  does  vomit.  Tlie  forefinger  is  tlio 
very  best  of  all  emetics,  especially  in  narcotic  poisoning.  Stir  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  into  the  water.  Or  give  a  teaspoonful  to  a  child,  a  tablespoonful  to  an  adult, 
of  wine  or  syrup  of  ipecac  every  few  moments,  following  each  dose  with  a  glass  of 
warm  water  and  then  the  forefinger,  or  give  twenty  grains  of  sulphate  of  zinc  in 
warm  water.  It  is  often  very  difOlcult  to  make  a  person  vomit  who  has  taken 
opium,  as  the  sensibility  of  the  stomach  is  deadened.  In  any  and  every  case  of 
poisoning  never  cease  your  efforts  until  free  vomiting  has  taken  place.    Use  all  of 


80  Foi8on$, 

the  methods  mentioned  or  any  one  of  them  at  hand.  Do  not  hesitate  to  thrust 
the  forefinger  down  the  throat  immediately :  follow  with  a  glass  or  two  of  warm 
water.    Repeat  this  process  several  times. 

Drinking  mustard  or  salt  and  water,  made  by  adding  a  tablespoonful  of 
common  salt,  or  powdered  mustard,  to  a  tumblerful  of  lukewarm  water,  makes  an 
excellent  emetic. 

Stimulants  may  be  given,  particularly  in  the  narcotic  poisons.  If  the  patient 
can  swallow  they  may  be  given  by  the  mouth,  provided  the  poisoning  is  not  due 
to  corrosives,  or  by  the  rectum  (lower  bowel),  or  by  inhalation.  The  stimulants 
administered  are  those  ordinarily  used.  Strong  coffee  is  of  the  greatest  value  in 
narcotic  poisoning,  and  it  may  be  given  either  by  the  mouth  or  rectum. 
When  stimulants  are  given  by  the  rectum,  the  amount  should  be  considerably 
larger  than  when  given  by  the  mouth,  and  it  should  be  diluted  with  suflacient 
warm  water  or  milk  to  make  a  cupful.  Ammonia,  and  nitrite  of  amyl  can  be 
given  by  inhalation ;  they  should  always  be  administered  by  dropping  a  sufficient 
amount  on  a  handkerchief  or  in  the  palm  of  the  hand.  The  bottle  should  never  be 
held  to  the  nose.  Stimulants  should  be  given  by  inhalation,  with  great  caution, 
as  they  are  liable  to  irritate  the  inflamed  membranes.  Nitrite  of  amyl  is  a  power- 
ful heart  stimulant,  and  should  be  used  with  care.  It  can  be  obtained  in  small 
glass  capsules,  which  are  broken  while  held  inside  a  handkerchief  and  then  ap- 
plied to  the  nostrils. 

The  following  list  comprises  those  poisons  which  are  commonly  met  with. 

ACIDS* 

Sulphuric  (oil  of  vitriol),  Muriatic  (spirit  of  salt).  Nitric  (aquafortis).  Acetic, 
Carbolic,  Oxalic. 

Symptoms. — Mucous  membrane  of  lips,  mouth  and  throat  greatly  inflamed 
and  swollen,  with  more  or  less  destruction  of  the  tissue,  and  symptoms  of  shock. 
When  taken  in  a  concentrated  form,  muriatic  and  sulphuric  acids  discolor  the  lips 
and  mouth  black,  while  nitric  acid  stains  these  tissues  yellow ;  when  oxalic  and 
carbolic  acids  have  been  taken,  the  membrane  has  a  whitish  appearance. 

Treatment. — For  sulphuric,  muriatic,  nitric,  and  acetic  acids  give  immediately 
a  solution  of  baking  soda  or  magnesia,  chalk,  white  crayon,  lime,  soap-suds,  or 
chalk  tooth-powder,  raw  eggs,  milk  or  sweet  oil. 

Oxalic  Acid.  Used  for  cleaning  kitchen  boilers,  and  thus  accidentally  intro- 
duced into  food. 

Symptoms. — Similar  to  other  acids  and  corrosives. 

Treatment. — Lime,  chalk  or  magnesia  in  some  form  should  be  administered 
(lime  may  be  scraped  from  the  wall  or  ceiling) ;  also  white  crayons,  tooth-powder, 
etc.  Do  not  use  soda,  potash  or  ammonia.  Castor-oil  or  sweet-oil  may  be  ad- 
ministered by  the  mouth,  and  rectal  stimulants  resorted  to.  Poisoning  by  salts 
of  lemon  salts  of  sorrel,  which  contain  oxalic  acid,  should  be  treated  as  above. 

Carbolic  Acid,  Creasote* 

Symptoms. — Characteristic  odor ;  flesh  red  and  burned  wherever  the  corrosive 
has  touched. 

Treatment. — If  seen  immediately,  give  castor-oil,  sweet  oil,  raw  eggs, 
followed  by  an  emetic.    Full  strength  alcohol  will  act  as  an  antidote  to  the  bum- 


PoUariB  n 

ing  sensation  upon  the  flesh,  Epsom  salts  o^  Glauber  salts  should  be  given  in 
large  doses. 

Alkali  Poisoniag« — Caustic  soda,  caustic  potash,  washing  soda,  pearl  ash, 
washing  powder,  household  ammonia,  ordinary  ammonia,  etc. 

Symptoms. — Burning  inflammation  and  swelling  of  the  lips  and  mouth. 

Tbeatment. — Something  acid  should  be  given  freely  and  at  once,  such  as 
vinegar,  juice  of  orange  or  lemon,  hard  cider,  juice  of  sour  fruits,  citric  or  tai- 
taric  acids.     Also  give  raw  eggs,  sweet-oil,  barley  water,  or  arrowroot  gruel. 

AlcohoU 

Treatment. — Keep  the  patient  active  by  pinching,  slapping  with  wet  towel, 
or  hot  and  cold  douches  to  head  and  spine ;  give  plenty  of  strong  coffee  by 
stoihach  or  rectum ;  inhale  ammonia  cautiously  and  use  artificial  respiration  if 
unconscious. 

Camphor, 

Symptoms. — Characteristic  odor ;  surface  of  body  cold  and  clammy ;  disturb- 
ances of  vision ;  noise  in  ears ;  delirium  and  convulsions. 

Treatment. — Give  emetics  and  stimulants,  apply  warmth  to  extremities. 

Chloroform, 

Treatment. — When  poisoning  is  caused  by  inhalation,  artificial  respiration 
should  be  performed  (see  Drowning) ;  also  apply  friction ;  give  plenty  of  frosh  air; 
the  patient's  head  should  be  low. 

When  poisoning  follows  the  internal  use  of  chloroform,  large  doses  of  bicar- 
bonate of  soda  in  water  should  be  given  internally,  in  addition  to  other  means  of 
resuscitation. 

Hydrate  of  Chloral* — (Cliloral).  Chloral  is  often  an  ingredient  in  sleeping 
potions,  liniments,  knockout  drops,  etc. 

Symptoms. — Weak  pulse;  labored  respiration;  heavy  breathing;  stupor  and 
unconsciousness ;  sometimes  convulsions. 

Treatment.  —If  the  patient  is  seen  Immediately  after  a  poisonous  dose  has 
been  taken,  give  an  emetic.  Give  stimulants ;  apply  warmth  to  extremities ;  mus- 
tard plaster  over  heart  and  calves  of  legs ;  use  artificial  respiration. 

Prussic  Add, — (Hydrocyanic  Acid).  One  of  the  deadliest  poisons  known. 
Poisoning  by  cyanide  of  potassium,  peach-pits,  and  bitter  almonds  should  be 
treated  the  same  as  for  Prussic  acid. 

Treatment. — Action  should  begin  at  once.  Do  not  stop  to  give  emetics ;  give 
stimulants  freely ;  apply  hot  and  cold  douches ;  artificial  respiration. 

Spanish  Fly — (Cantharldes.) 

Symptoms.— Burning  sensation  In  mouth  and  throat;  violent  pain  In  abdo- 
men ;  vomiting  and  purging ;  vomited  matter  may  contain  blood ;  great  Irrita- 
tion of  urinary  organs  with  bloody  urine ;  delirium  and  convulsions. 

Treatment. — Give  emetics ;  if  recently  swallowed,  give  raw  eggs,  sweet-oil, 
milk.  Stimulants  (by  rectum)  If  necessary ;  heat ;  api)ly  poultices  or  hot  cloths 
over  the  abdomen. 

Aconite, — (Monkshood,  Wolfsbane).  This  drug  Is  exceedingly  poisonous;  is 
commonly  found  in  liniments  and  okitment':. 


63  P&lMonp 

Symptoms. — Tingling  of  the  lips,  mouth  and  throat ;  numbness  of  extremities ; 
pulse  slow  and  weak ;  convulsions  may  sometimes  occur. 

Tbbatment. — Give  emetics;  use  stimulants;  apply  warmth  to  extremities; 
mustard  plaster  over  heart  and  calves  of  legs.  If  insensible,  use  artificial  respir- 
ation. 

Ntix  Vomica.— (Strychnine  the  active  principle).     Dog  Button. 

Symptoms. — Irritable  condition  and  twitching  of  the  muscular  system,  fol- 
lowed by  severe  convulsions,  recurring  at  Intervals.  The  contractions  sometimes 
cause  the  body  to  assume  the  form  of  a  bow,  with  great  pain. 

Treatment. — Give  strong  tea;  animal  charcoal,  and  follow  this  by  an 
emetic.  A  pearl  of  nitrite  of  amyl  may  be  broken  in  a  handkerchief  and  inhaled. 
Use  artificial  respiration  when  necessary. 

Opium. — Morphine  (the  active  principle  of  opium),  tincture  of  opium  (laud- 
anum), camphorated  tincture  of  opium,  paregoric,  McMunn's  elixir,  codeine,  and 
narceine,  etc.  Opium  is  an  ingredient  in  many  preparations,  such  as  cough 
mixtures,  soothing  syrups  for  children,  and  many  patent  medicines. 

Symptoms. — Usually  more  or  less  mental  excitement,  followed  by  great 
depression,  headache,  sensation  of  weight  in  the  limbs,  an  irresistible  desire  to 
sleep,  deepening  into  a  stupor ;  pupils  are  contracted,  the  respirations  are  greatly 
diminished,  the  skin  is  cold  and  clammy  and  the  face  pale.  Convulsions  some- 
times follow. 

Treatment. — Give  onietics;  apply  water  to  the  head,  face  and  spine;  give 
coffee  by  rectum  or  mouth.  Do  not  give  stimulants.  Keep  the  patient  aroused 
by  walking,  whipping  or  other  means ;  use  artificial  respiration  if  necessary. 

Arsenic. — This  substance  is  a  universal  source  of  poisoning  accidents  in  the 
powder  form  (arsenic  acid),  and  in  Fowler's  solution  which  is  used  in  medicine. 
It  is  an  ingredient  of  fly  paper,  insect  exterminators,  rat  poisons,  etc.  Paris 
green  or  Scheole's  Green  is  the  arsenite  of  copper.  Orpiment  or  king's  yellow 
and  realgar  are  preparations  of  arsenic.  Arsenic  is  used  for  stuffing  birds,  for 
coloring  paper,  flowers,  etc. 

Symptoms. — If  Paris  green  or  any  of  the  colored  preparations  of  arsenic  have 
been  taken,  the  color  may  be  seen  about  the  mouth  or  on  the  clothing.  Fowler's 
solution  has  a  lavender  odor  and  a  pink  color. 

Symptoms. — Intense  burning  pain  in  pit  of  stomach,  faintness  and  depression ; 
vomiting  and  purging ;  vomited  matter  streaked  with  blood.  Abdomen  tender 
and  painful ;  skin  cold  and  clammy. 

Treatment. — Give  emetics  promptly,  such  as  draughts  of  hot  greasy  water, 
or  salt  and  water ;  a  large  amount  of  magnesia  may  be  given,  if  not  at  hand  give 
lime  scraped  from  the  walls  or  ceilings;  castor-oil,  sweet-oil  or  equal  parts  of 
sweet-oil  and  lime  water,  or  lime  water  alone ;  raw  eggs ;  milk ;  stimulants  (well 
diluted). 

A  preparation  known  as  Dialysed  Iron  may  be  obtained  at  nearly  every  drug 
store.  This  is  a  prompt  and  perfect  antidote  to  arsenic.  Directions  for  use 
accompany  this  preparation. 


PoisoiiH  •   88 

Blue  VitrioL — Blue  Stone.  (Sulphate  of  copper.)  Subacetate  of  copper), — 
CJopper  poisoning  due  to  substances  which  have  been  cooked  in  copper  vessels. 

SrME>TOMS. — Vomiting  and  purging;  griping  pains ;  metallic  taste  in  mouth ; 
great  thirst  and  weakness ;  labored  respirations  and  rapid  pulse ;  dimness  of  vision ; 
convulsions. 

Treatment. — Give  copious  draughts  of  warm  water ;  emetic  (when  necessary) 
raw  eggs ;  milk ;  stimulants. 

G>rrosive  Safalimate,— (Bichloride  of  Mercury).  This  substance  is  used  in  so- 
lution and  tablet  form  for  disinfection  as  a  surgical  antiseptic,  etc.  It  is  a  highly 
active  and  dangerous  poison. 

Symptoms. — Vomiting  and  purging :  intense  pain  in  abdomen ;  membrane  of 
mouth  and  tongue  white  and  shriveled ;  metallic  taste  in  mouth.  Pain  in  stomach 
and  abdomen. 

Treatment. — If  seen  immediately  after  swallowing,  give  an  emetic ;  give  at 
once  abundant  doses  of  white  of  eggs,  milk,  mucilage,  or  mix  up  an  arrowroot 
gruel,  barley  water,  or  flour  and  water,  and  give  all  that  the  patient  will  swallow. 

Iodine.— Or  Iodoform. 

Symptoms. — Local  irritation  and  pain ;  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  mouth 
is  discolored  yellow ;  vomiting  and  purging,  the  vomited  matter  having  a  bluish 
color.  Blue  color  also  noticed  when  vomited  matters  come  in  contact  with 
starched  articles  of  clothing. 

Treatment. — Give  any  kind  of  starch  or  starch  food  freely ;  chalk,  magnesia, 
and  stimulants,  if  necessary.  • 

Zinc. — The  sulphate  or  chloride  is  generally  used.  (The  oxide  of  zinc  is  not 
poisonous). 

Symptoms. — Pain  and  vomiting,  great  depression;  if  the  chloride  has  been 
taken,  the  noiouth  will  be  inflamed. 

Treatment. — Bicarbonate  of  soda  (baking  powder)  in  water;  milk,  eggs, 
strong  tea. 

Phosphortfs. — Poisoning  frequently  occurs  as  the  result  of  sucking  or  swallow- 
ing the  heads  of  matches. 

Symptoms. — Vomiting  and  purging;  vomited  matter  is  luminous  in  the  dark 
^ith  odor  of  garlic.     Intense  pain  in  abdomen. 

Treatment. — Give  emetics,  followed  by  magnesia,  white  of  eggs,  olive-oil. 

Tartar  Emetic. — (Antimony  or  Stibium). 

Symptoms. — Vomiting  and  purging;  skin  cold  and  clammy;  collapse. 

Treatment. — Give  warm  water  freely.  Give  stimulants;  strong  tea  or. 
coffee,  and  apply  warmth. 

Lead. — (Red  Lead,  Sugar  Lead,  White  Lead,  Paints.)  These  poisons  cause 
cramps,  paralysis,  convulsions,  giddiness,  stupor. 

Treatment. — Cause  vomiting ;  give  large  doses  of  Epsom  or  Glauber  Salts ; 
apply  mustard  plasters  to  extremities;  give  stimulating,  sweet  or  mucilaginous 
drinks. 

In  acute  attacks  of  load  colic,  the  same  treatment  may  be  pursued,  except 
to  omit  tlio  vomiting. 


84  Poisons. 

Vegetable  Polsoiuu — Known  or  unknown  horbs  such  as  hellebore,  bitter-sweet, 
poke  berries,  hemlock,  Jamestown  weed,  tobacco,  etc. 

The  most  of  these  cause  vomiting,  intoxication,  stupor,  etc. 

It  is  a  safe  rule  to  cause  vomiting;  give  warm  drinks  and  stimulants. 

Poison  ivy,  poison  oak,  poison  sumac,  and  other  plants  which  cause  a  painful 
rash  either  by  direct  contact  or  by  emanations  or  near  approach. 

Wash  with  a  strong  solution  of  baking*  soda  (bicarbonate  of  soda)  or  saleratus 
at  the  beginning.  Dress  with  vaseline,  oxide  of  zinc,  ointment  or  any  soothing 
dressing.  A  lather  made  of  the  Surgeons  Soap  in  the  Johnson's  Accident  Case 
will  allay  the  itching  and  burning. 

Belladonna. — (Deadly  Night-shade).  This  drug  is  contained  in  cough  mix- 
tures, liniments,  ointments  and  plasters.  The  active  principle  of  Atropine  is  used 
in  eye  ointments  and  washes.  Poisoning  may  occur  by  absorbtion  through 
the  skin. 

Symptoms. — Pupils  dilated ;  headache ;  intense  dryness  of  mucous  membrane 
of  mouth,  throat  and  nasal  cavity;  inability  to  swallow;  face  flushed;  delirum 
and  stupor,  or  convulsions. 

Treatment. — Give  emetics;  stimulants;  apply  warmth  to  extremities ;  mus- 
tard plaster  to  feet ;  if  insensible,  artificial  respiration. 

Fox  Glove.— (Digitalis). 

Symptoms. — Purging  and  vomiting;  pain  in  abdomen;  face  pale;  pupils 
dilated ;  skin  cold  and  clammy ;  pulse  feeble  and  slow ;  depression  ;  gasping  respira- 
tion ;  delirium  and  convulsions. 

Treatment. —In  cases  where  large  dose  of  digitalis  has  been  taken,  give 
emetics,  followed  by  repeated  draughts  of  strong  tea ;  apply  must,ard  plaster  over 
the  heart,  and  calves  of  the  legs ;  give  stimulants  internally. 

Poisonous  Mushrooms.— (Toadstools). 

Symptoms. — Colic;  vomiting  and  purging;  dilated  pupils;  muscular  weak- 
ness ;  mental  excitement. 

Treatment. — Give  emetics :  castor-oil ;  stimulants ;  apply  heat. 

The  same  treatment  is  applicable  to  poisoning  by  eating  mussels  or  poisonous 
fiBh. 


Domestic  EmergeruiieB  B5 

DOMESTIC  EMERGENCIES 

This  Manual  is  primarily  designed  to  meet  accidents  which  occur  in  the  fac- 
tory and  workshop,  and  does  not,  except  incidentally,  touch  upon  such  emergen- 
cies as  are  liable  to  occur  in  the  household.  It  has  been  printed  in  response  to  a 
legitimate  demand  for  some  simple  suggestions  for  emergencies  which  may  arise  at 
a  time  when  skilled  medical  assistance  cannot  be  obtained  at  once.  Emergencies 
may  arise  at  night,  when  travelling,  camping  out  or  in  situations  where  a  physic- 
ian cannot  be  summoned.  No  attempt  will  be  made,  however  to  suggest  the 
selection  or  administration  of  medicines,  as  the  editor  of  this  Manual  is  firm  in  his 
opinion  that  drugs  should  be  administered  only  under  the  direction  of  a  physician. 
The  suggestions  which  follow  are  therefore  confined  to  simple  measures  which 
do  not  require  t  he  use  of  drugs.  In  all  emergencies  the  first  thing  to  do  is  to 
send  for  a  physician. 

Fever. — Symptoms  of  fever  often  develop  suddenly  in  children,  producing 
alarming  symptoms.  The  best  thing  to  do  is  to  undress  the  person  and  put  him 
to  bed.  Do  not  cover  up  too  warm ;  he  will  be  more  comfortable  with  a  moderate 
amount  of  covering.  Give  cooling  drinks ;  nothing  to  eat,  except  milk.  Bathing 
with  moderately  cool  water  will  give  slight  relief. 

Colic. — Apply  heat  in  the  form  of  hot  water  bags,  or  bottles,  hot  plates,  and 
mustard  plaster  over  the  seat  of  pain.     Hot  baths  are  sometimes  useful. 

For  ChoijERA-Mobbus. — The  same  line  of  treatment  may  be  pursued. ' 

Diabbhea-Dysentaby. — For  a  simple  diarrhea,  such  as  usually  follows  a 
cold  or  indigestion,  a  little  ginger  tea,  peppermint  or  other  warm  drink  will 
usually  bring  relief .  A  tablespoonful  of  sweet  oil  for  an  adult,  a  teaspoonful  for 
a  child  will  relieve  irritation.  For  dysentery  which  follows  diarrhea,  rest  in  bed ; 
hot  compresses,  or  mustard  plasters  to  abdomen  and  soles  of  feet  will  bring  relief. 

Vomiting. — Give  large  amounts  of  hot  water,  as  hot  as  can  be  taken. 
Patient  should  always  lie  down.  Small  bits  of  Ice  held  in  the  mouth  or  swal- 
lowed, will  relieve  vomiting  caused  by  indigestion.  A  lump  of  ice  held  against 
the  pit  of  the  stomach  will  sometimes  bring  relief.  When  other  means  fail,  apply 
a  mustard  plaster  to  the  pit  of  the  stomach. 

Hiccough. — In  severe  attacks  apply  mustard  plasters  ovor  the  "stomach. 
Hot  vinegar,  brandy  or  whiskey  applied  in  the  same  manner  will  sometimes  bring 
relief.     Let  the  patient  draw  a  deep  breath  and  hold  it  as  long  as  possible. 

Angina  Pectobis. — Apply  cold  over  the  region  of  the  heart.  This  is  more 
grateful  to  some  people  than  heat,  and  should  be  tried  first.  Hot  applications, 
such  as  hot  water  bags,  hot  cloths  and  mustard  plasters  may  be  used  where  cold 
applications  fail.     Inhale  amyl  nitrite. 

Asthma. — Persons  susceptible  to  attacks  of  asthma  should  keep  a  supply  of 
suitable  burning  or  inhaling  material  for  immediate  use  (asthma  cigarettes).  If 
such  are  not  at  hand,  saturate  a  piece  of  blotting  paper  with  a  strong  solution  of 
saltpeter,  dry  and  ignite ;  let  the  patient  inhale  the  fumes.  If  no  other  means 
are  at  hand,  let  the  person  attacked  engage  In  some  diversion  that  will  occupy 
attention,  such  as  smoking  a  cigar  or  pipe,  reading  a  book  or  paper,  writing,  etc. 


86  Domestic  Emergenoiea. 

Ckoup. — In  sudden  attacks  divert  the  patient's  attention  and  allay  fears. 
Often  the  playing  with  a  toy  or  listening  to  a  story  will  cause  symptons  to  dis- 
appear. Keep  the  room  warm  and,  if  possible,  have  water  boiling  in  the  room,  in 
such  a  way  that  the  steam  will  reach  the  sufferer.  Flannels  wrung  out  in  hot 
water  may  be  applied  to  the  throat  and  covered  with  some  waterproof  material. 
Mustard  plasters  to  the  soles  of  the  feet  and  to  the  chest  (for  a  few  moments 
only). 

Hot  foot  baths  to  the  knees  will  often  bring  relief,  but  if  warm  applications 
do  not  bring  relief,  try  cold.  In  membranous  croup,  slack  lime  in  the  room  under 
a  tent  allowing  the  patient  to  inhale  the  steam.  Never  neglect  to  summon  a 
physician  in  every  case  of  croup. 

Hernia-StbanguijATED.— Place  the  patient  on  his  back  in  bed ;  elevate  the 
foot  of  the  bed  about  twelve  inches ;  bend  the  legs  back  towards  the  abdomen. 
Apply  to  the  hernia,  towels  or  cloths  wrung  out  in  hot  water;  if  these  do  not 
bring  relief,  apply  cold. 

Ckamps. — If  in  muscles  of  leg,  etc.,  bathe  the  part  in  water  as  hot  as  can  be 
borne ;  apply  mustard  plaster  to  the  part  affected,  and  to  the  extremities. 

Cramps  of  the  stomach  are  sometimes  dangerous.  Apply  hot  cloths  over  the 
stomach  or  mustard  plasters  at  the  pit  of  the  stomach  and  the  extremities. 

SUPPBESSION  OF  Ukine.— Apply  hot  cloths  over  bladder;  give  a  warm  si tz- 
bath.  In  some  instances  walking  over  a  cold  wet  floor  or  dashing  cold  water  on 
the  legs  and  thighs,  will  cause  a  discharge  and  bring  relief. 

Nervousness. —In  severe  attacks,  put  the  patient  to  bed ;  give  hot  drinks, 
especially  coffee ;  apply  heat  or  mustard  to  soles  of  feet,  back  and  chest. 

Neuralgia  . —Apply  a  mustard  plaster  or  hot  cloths  over  the  seat  of  pain- 
If  hot  applications  fail  to  relievo,  apply  cold. 

Earache.— Apply  cloths  wrung  out  of  hot  water,  to  the  head,  or  near  the 
seat  of  pain.  A  hop  poultice  will  be  found  very  useful.  Give  hot  drinks.  Moisten 
a  bit  of  cotton  with  sweet  oil  and  laudanum  and  put  in  the  ear. 

Brief  Rules  for  Cases  of  Emergency  in  Children^ 

(1)  If  the  child  is  suddenly  attacked  with  vomiting,  purging,  and  prostration, 
send  for  a  doctor  at  once.  In  the  meantime,  put  the  child  for  a  few  minutes  in  a 
hot  bath,  then  carefully  wipe  it  dry  with  a  warm  towel,  and  wrap  it  in  warm 
blankets.  If  its  hands  and  feet  are  cold,  bottles  filled  with  hot  water  and  wrapped 
in  flannel  should  be  laid  against  thom. 

(2)  A  mush-poultice,  or  one  made  of  flaxseed  meal,  to  which  one  quarter 
part  of  mustard  flour  has  been  added,  or  flannels  wrung  out  of  hot  vinegar  and 
water,  should  be  placed  over  the  belly. 

(3)  Five  drops  of  brandy  in  a  teaspoonful  of  water  may  be  given  every  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes;  but  if  the  vomiting  persists,  give  brandy,  milk  and  lime-water 
in  the  same  quantity. 

(4)  If  the  diarrhea  has  just  begun,  or  if  it  is  caused  by  improper  food,  a 
teaspoonful  of  castor  oil,  or  of  the  spiced  syrup  of  rhubarb,  should  be  given. 


DomeMio  Emergmioies-^JItuMard  Plaster  87 

(5)  If  the  child  has  been  fed  partly  on  the  breast  and  partly  on  other  food, 
the  motlier's  milk  alone  must  now  be  used.  If  the  child  has  been  weaned,  it 
should  have  its  milk-food  diluted  with  lime-wacei%  or  should  have  weak  beef-tea, 
or  chicken  broth.  > 

(6)  The  child  should  b«^  allowed  to  drink  cold  water  freely. 

(7)  The  soiled  diapers  or  the  discharges  should  at  once  be  removed  from  the 
room,  but  saved  for  the  physician  to  examine  at  his  visit. 

These  rules  were  suggested  by  the  Committee  of  the  Obstetrical  Society  ot 
Philadelphia. 


MUSTARD   PLASTER 

A  noted  medical  writer  states  that  mustard  plasten^  arc  applicable  bo  i6ur- 
fifths  of  all  the  ailments  that  are  met  with  in  every  day  life.  **N()  matter  wliat 
else  we  may  do,"  he  says,  "or  what  other  remedies  we  may  use,  we  cannot  affoixl 
to  treat  diseases  without  the  use  of  mustard  plasters.  Five  hundred  should  be 
used  where  one  is  now  applied." 

Mustard  plasters  are  the  cheapest  remedy  that  can  be  obtained ;  they  do  not 
interfere  with  other  treatment  and  when  used,  the  danger  of  stuffing  the  sick  with 
drugs  is  avoided. 

In  the  first  aid  to  the  injured  the  prompt  application  of  a  mustard  plaster  is 
of  great  service,  so  various  suggestions  for  its  use  in  emergency  are  given 
throughout  this  Manual.  The  following  additional  suggestions  are  given  by  tlio 
authority  noted  above :  Wherever  there  is  a  ct)ld  surface,  mustard  plasters 
should  be  used  plentifully  on  the  arms,  legs  and  abdomen,  and  should  be  kept  in 
place  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  Also  use  them  for  pressure  of  blooci  to  the 
head,  for  coma,  delirium,  inflammation,  nose  bleed ;  apply  to  the  legs,  urms  and 
abdomen. 

In  local  congestion,  brain  congestion,  concussion,  paralysis,  narcotism,  head- 
ache, apoplexy,  hemorrage,  stupor,  apply  frequently  on  the  arms,  calves  of  legs 
and  stomach. 

In  apoplectic  tendency  use  daily  for  months. 

In  sleeplessness,  mania,  spasmodic  afifections,  hysteria,  epilepsy,  apply  daily 
to  legs  and  soles  of  feet. 

In  affections  of  the  chest,  colds,  broncliitis,  whooping  cough,  coughs,  asthma, 
congestion ;  apply  to  stomach,  h^gs  and  feet. 

In  vomiting,  spasms,  nausea,  pains,  sea-sickness ;  apply  over  stomach,  but 
not  on  legs  unless  feet  are  cold. 

In  abdominal  troubles,  spasms,  cholera  morbus,  dysentery,  peritonitis, 
painter's  colic,  pain  in  liver,  colic  pains,  diarrhea,  cliolera,  typhilitis,  pains  in 
spleen;  use  frequently  and  plentifully  on  arms,  legs  and  abdomen  ;  keep  in  plac<» 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes.     May  be  also  placeti  over  m^mi  of  pain. 

In  muscular  pains,  rheumatism,  local  pains,  neuralgic  pains,  inflanmiation, 
sciatica,  apply  frequently  so  as  to  draw  blood  away  from  affecteci  spot  to  a  cold 
surface,  as  hands  and  feet. 


IS 


MuMtard  PlaMer, 


HOW    TO   FIX    A   MUSTARD   PLASTER. 

Soak  in  water  (waini,  but  not  hot)  for  two  minutes,  and  apply.  The  mustard 
side  goes  next  to  the  skin.  If  the  skin  is  very  sensitive,  a  thin  pieet^  of  m^i  ehdh 
may  be  placed  between  the  planter  and  the  skin.  The  skin  soon  grows  used  to 
the  action  of  mustard,  so  that  the  use  of  eioth  ttiay  be  discontinued*  Half- 
strength  leaves  are  made  by  Johnson  ^  Juhmsou  where  a  inild  aetion  oidy  H 
w^imted.  On  a  sensitive  skin  five  to  ten  minutos  will  prodtuM^  a  bright  red  patih. 
The  plaster  may  then  be  removed  and  a  fresh  one  appUed  in  another  spot  if 
necessaiy. 

Mustard  plasters  should  never  remain  long  enough  to  produce  a  blister. 
Tht^y  are  liable  to  do  this  after  thiiiy  minutes.  The  best  way  is  to  put  on  a  frfleh 
one  at  new^  points  until  red  spots  that  will  n'main,  are  produced. 

The  red  sfwt  will  bumi  for  some  minutes  after  the  plaster  is  taken  ofF,  l»ut, 
unless  the  pain  is  unhearahle,  put  nothing  on  as  a  dressing,  Tiien  use  fuli 
strength  grain  alcohol  which  wiiJ  stop  th^  burning. 


^  A»nr»cr  MirffiK^  Pfustar 


[Vg^it^* 


>»>tVltfa^ 


While  there  are  many  mustard  plasters  made  whieh  are  fairly  good  when 
fresh,  all  those  made  in  this  country,  save  Johnson's,  will  rapidly  deteriorate  and 
lost*  their  aetivity.  Johnson's  Mustard  Plasters  are  spread  ready  for  immediate 
USD  \  simply  wet  them  and  then  apply. 

Their  plasters  are  made  of  the  best  It^ilian  mustard  seed,  earefully  cleaned 
and  freed  from  foreign  matter  bi>  that  they  do  good  w^ork  and  are  always  reliable. 
More  relief  from  pain  and  more  saiisfaetion  can  be  obta,ined  from  Johnson^s 
muKtard  plaster  than  from  any  other  one  thing  known.  Sueh  absolute  faith  is 
placed  In  their  superiority  that  no  complaint  has  ever  been  received. 


Medicated  Soapn  88 

MEDICATED  SOAPS. 

Medicated  or  antiseptic  soaps  are  now  being  adopted  by  surgeons,  dermatolo- 
gists and  others,  to  the  exclusion  of  the  ordinary  toilet  soaps.  This  example  is 
one  which  may  be  followed  by  the  laity  with  good  results. 

The  ordinary  toilet  or  washing  soaps  are,  for  the  most  part,  made  up  of  cheap 
and  unwholesome  material.  Their  efficacy,  even  as  a  cleansing  agent,  is  often 
doubtful,  and  in  cases  where  the  skin  is  affected,  their  use  is  often  deleterious. 
On  the  other  hand,  properly  made  antiseptic  soaps  exert  double  effect ;  they  give 
all  the  cleansing  action  of  soaps  proper,  and  in  addition,  that  of  the  antiseptic  or 
medicament  contained  therein.  The  effects  of  antiseptic  soaps  upon  the  skin  are 
both  mechanical  and  medicinal.  They  not  only  cleanse  the  skin  surface,  removing 
foreign  matter  and  skin  secretions— diseased  products— etc.,  but  penetrate  into 
the  glands  and  dissolve  the  fatty  material  filling  the  ducts,  and  thus  facilitate  its 
removal.  Aside  from  these  effects  the  antiseptic  soaps  exert  an  influence  upon 
the  nutrition  of  the  skin,  stimulating  its  functions  and  promoting  the  absorption 
of  secretions. 

In  view  of  these  beneficial  effects  of  antiseptic  soaps  upon  the  skin,  they  have 
been  found  an  excellent  application  in  diseases  of  the  skin  and  scalp,  and  are  supe- 
rior to  other  applications,  such  as  ointments,  etc.,  which  impair  the  functions 
of  the  skin  by  clogging  up  the  glands  and  Interfering  with  their  proper  action. 

In  comparison  with  other  methods,  the  use  of  antiseptic  or  medicated  soaps 
is  at  once  the  cheapest,  most  convenient  and  agreeable  of  all.  One  cake  of  soap 
will  take  the  place  of  many  Jars  of  ointment.  The  treatment  is  cleanly  and  may 
be  carried  on  for  long  periods.  Properly  made  antiseptic  or  medicated  soaps 
retain  their  activity  longer  than  other  preparations,  and  will  not  become  rancid 
or  irritating  to  the  skin,  as  in  case  of  other  applications . 

It  has  been  demonstrated  that  a  large  number  of  skin  affections  are  due  to 
the  agency  of  minute  organisms  growing  upon  the  surface  of  the  skin,  as 
well  as  those  growing  in  deeper  layers.  And  it  has  been  found  that  by  the 
combination  of  an  effective  antiseptic  with  a  proper  soap  base,  a  powerful  and 
penetrating  germ-destroying  action  is  secured ;  much  more  so  than  from  any  other 
form  of  application. 

Antiseptic  soaps  are  now  considered  an  indispensable  adjunct  in  modern 
surgery  for  disinfecting  the  skin  ol  the  patient,  and  the  hands  of  the  surgeon  and 
his  assistants.  Such  soaps  are  used  by  physicians,  especially  after  the  handling 
of,  or  examination  of  cases  of  infectious  diseases,  in  midwifery,  etc. 

The  use  of  antiseptic  soap  is  recommended  by  the  highest  authorities  in  homes 
where  contagious  diseases  prevail,  and  in  public  lavatories.  And  it  may  be  here 
noted  that  antiseptic  soaps  can  be  substituted  with  perfect  safety,  and  as  a  measure 
ot  wise  precaution,  in  the  place  of  an  ordinary  toilet  soap  for  either  public  or 
private  use. 

To  obtain  successful  results  from  their  use,  much  will  depend  upon  the  purity 
of  the  soap  base  employed  and  the  method  of  preparation.  Johnson's  antiseptic 
soaps  are  made  from  pure  neutral  soap,  without  the  addition  of  sugar,  stiirch  or 
filling  material.      The  percentage  of  medicament  is  uniform,  and  the  ingredients 


oa 


Medicaied  Soapn 


*inj  thoroughly  Incorporated. 
(i;urgeoriB,  aud  nuirs4^F^  and  are 
JohDaoii's  Tat  and  Witoli- 
washing  infantB  with  tendi^r 


cAniiseplie  Soap. 


They  are  mado  especially  for  the  uso  of  physicians, 
guaranteed  to  give  tho  h[gheBt  satisfaction. 
-Hazel  8oap  is  made  especiallj  for  toilet  and  hath,  for 
s^kin*  for  the  complexion^  hair  and  sealp»  for  skin 

diseases  J    cliapped    hands,  wounds  and 

cntB» 

Johnson*s  Carbolic  Boap  for  physi- 
rians',  surgeons'  and  nurses'  xise  is  ap- 
plicable lo  tlie  disinfection  of  surgeons' 
hands,  purificiation  of  wounds,  uteers  and 
sores  \  Itehing,  skin  troubles,  female  dis- 
efl«e«,  removal  of  insects  on  a-nimals. 

Jolinson's  Corrosive  Sublimate  Soap 
for  disinfecting  tlie  hands,  syphilitic 
sores,  skin  and  infected  wounds  it  is  a 
powerfully  antiseptic  soap. 

Jolm son's  Ichthyol  Soap  is  recom- 
mended by  American  and  European  oiini- 
cians  as  a  local  alternathe  and  anodyne 
di sentient  [in  eczema,  acne,  lupus,  lepra, 
ulceration ;  for  softening  and  dispersion 
of  lipomas^  in  fevers,  frostbites,  sprains, 
tumors,  and  in  rhenmatieia  and  gout. 

Johnson's  AntieeptJo  Soaps  are 
healthful  and  delightful  for  use  in  the 
toilet  or  batb. 

iiUGaiBTlONS  FOR   THE  USE  OF   Jf>HNSON*S  ANTISEPTIG   SOAFS. 

Cbm piled  from  Clinical  Reports : — 

For  rdt^ansing  wounds^  hands  of  surgeons,  nurses,  etc.,  Carliolic  or  Tar  and 
Witeh'Hazel  Soap  are  recommended. 

For  cleansing  ulcers,  sores,  discharges,  burns,  scalded  and  festers.  Tar  and 
Witch-Haze  I  Soap  or  Carbolic  Soap  are  preferred.  Use  by  bath  I  ng  i  n  a  strong  audi 
marie  with  warm  water  or  a  lather  ap- 
plied with  a  sponge*  After  drying, 
dust  on  Johnson's  Antiseptic  Baby 
Powder.  For  chapped  ^kln  and 
roughness  Jet  the  lather  dry  and  dust 
with  Antiseptic  Baby  Powder. 

For  babies'  bath  use  only  Tar  and 
Witch* Hazel  Soap  applied  witli  a  chith 
or  stxinge.  Wa^h,  dry  and  duBt  gently 
with  AntisepLle  Baby  Powder. 

For  dandruff,  baldness,  etc*»  sham' 
poo  once  or  twice  a  week  with  John- 
son's Tar  and  Witch-IIuzel  Soap,  rnb 
rinsing. 


NSWICk  N.J* 


lather  well  Into  the  scalp  and  dry  without 


Medicaled  Soaps 


01 


In  skin  dlsodS^s— either  apply  by  bathtii{;t  oi*  a  heavy  lathof  Oil  a  epong<3*  In 
acne,  coniedones  and  other  diseases  where  a  stimulant  is  required,  apply  at  night 
a  paste  made  of  scraped  soap  and  wash  off  in  the  morning. 

In  all  cases  where  possible,  after  using  the  soaps,  dust  the  parts  with  John- 
son's Antiseptic  Baby  Powder. 

SYNOL  LIQUID  ANTISEPTIC  SOAP. 

Synol  is  a  liquid  antiseptic  soap  which  has  been  evolved  after  a  long  series  of 
experiments  with  antiseptic  soaps  and  soap  bases. 

In  Synol  the  antiseptic  agents  have  been  made  to  combine  perfectly  with  the 
saponaceous  compound,  in  which  they  are  perfectly  compatible. 

The  base  of  Synol  is  a  highly  alkaline  soap  made  of  perfectly  pure  fats,  and  in 
addition  to.  and  above  the  germicidal  action,  the  soap  is  one  which  aids  in  destroy- 
ing or  emulsifying  the  fats  of  the  skin  and  its  hardened  secretions.  It  softens  and 
loosens  the  skin  scurf,  so  that  the  bacteria  in- 
festing the  depressions  of  the  epidermis  and  its 
deeper  structure  may  be  destroyed  and  washed 
away.  In  other  words,  Synol  is  germicidal,  me- 
chanically and  chemically:  the  mechanical  and 
chemical  agents  assisting  each  other. 

Synol  has  been  used  in  several  clinics  and  by 
private  surgeons  for  a  number  of  years  and  the 
reports  of  these  observers  show  that  Synol  accom- 
plishes the  cleansing  and  steilization  of  the  hands 
without  irritation  and  without  destroying  or 
roughening  the  skin.  On  the  whole  it  renders  the 
skin  smooth  and  sott,  thereby  lessening  the 
chance  of  its  harboring  germs.  Indeed  the  con- 
stant use  of  this  soap  keeps  the  skin  soft  and 
pliable,  and  preserves  cleanliness  in  the  deeper 
structures. 

Synol  Soap  is  put  up  in  a  sterilized  glass  con- 
tainer with  a  cap  which  piactically  seals  the  con- 
tents, and  it  may  be  distributed  over  the  hands 
without  fear  of  contamination  of  the  soap  itself. 
It  is  adapted  to  every  conceivable  use  to  which 
soap  can  be  put,  and  has  been  found  to  be  an  ex- 
cellent addition  to  the  bath  and  toilet  of  the  sur- 
gical operators,  nurses,  attendants  and  patients. 

HOW   TO   USE  SYNOL  SOAP. 

For  ordinary  washing  or  cleansing  the  hands,  pour  a  teaspoonful  of  the  Synol 
Soap  into  the  palm  of  the  left  hand  and  wetting  the  other  hand  by  dipping  it  into 
warm  water,  rub  both  hands  together  vigorously  making  a  good  lather.  Be 
particular  to  rub  the  fingers  well,  especially  about  the  nails.  Then  rinse  off  the 
lather  with  a  stream  of  warm  water  and  clean  the  nails  with  a  dull  nail  Made  or 
pointed  stick.    Wipe  with  a  cl(»an  towel. 


n 


Meiimkd  SoapB 


1JSTER*S  DOG  SOAP 

N0N-P0180N0CI* 

This  s<mt>  is  prepat'ed  for  the  ciouble  purpose  of  extei'tnlnatliiK  Jl^'it^.  Hen  or 
other  vermin  that  infect  atiimalfi  and  also  a^  a  cure  tav  nmngt^  anii  all  skhi  diseases 
of  aiiLmalB  or  man,  such  as  ringworm,  gangrene,  c5aakor,  open  mw  wouncJB  and 
festering  soree. 

DIBBCTIONB  FOB  UBB. 

Fob  KrLLrNO-  FijUiS : — Wet  the  <ioat  with  warm  water,  rub  the  soap  well  lu 
with  thfi  hands,  covering  every  part  of  the  skin;  leave 
on  for  a  half  an  hour,  then  wash  with  luke-warin  wattar 
and  dry  thoroughly.  

For  TREATTWCr  Makob:— Mako  a  mod  fitiPf  lutker,     ff.  igTEj?^ 
anci  allc>;v  it  to  dry  on  tlif*  animaL     Wrap  up  warm  (or  ''       ~ 

give  him  a  good  run)  till  dry ;  '  cpeat  thia  treatment  three     _ 
times  a  week^  for  a  week,  or  longer,  if  necoBsary.  H  DOG  *50AI 

For  Tbbating  Ea  w  ORFiafTBBiNO  Bobes  on  Horsbb  : 
First,  shave  one-quarter  of  a  eake  in  thin  shavings  and 
dissolve  in  one  pint  of  warm  water  and  apply  with  a 
sponge;  allow  eoap  to  dry  on  wound »  Same  treatment 
for  rin gwor ra ,  civnke r  o r  gan grene*  1  awd  au An i  ^ 

Lister's  Dog  Soap  should  not  be  u*5t»d  'in  eats. 

Tins  soap  will  be  found  useful  in  trtuilnig  all  forms 
4if  sore»  or  skin  diseases  of  men. 

Lister's  Dog  Soap  possesses  very  >'igh  antiseptic  prop, 
erties,  hut  Is  entirely  free  from  all  poisons  oj-  eheniical& 
injurious  to  man,  at  the  same  time  cleansing  the  Skin  and  ridding  It  from  all 
Insecte. 

Lister's  Dog  Soap  will  not  attack  the  tissues  of  the  skin  or  cause  any  irrita- 
tion. 

Lister's  Bog  Soap  Is  made  from  an  entirely  now  antiseptic  which  is  being  used 
In  the  hospitals  as  one  of  the  best  known  non-poisonous  wound  dressings. 


DAILY  CARE  OF  THE  MOUTH  AND  TEETH 

BY   DK.    U,    Q.    SlMMOKS 

Decay  In  the  teeth  Is  now  known  to  he  caused  by  a  minute  germ  tliat  attacks 
tooth  structure  wherever  it  lliids  lodgment  for  n  sufhcient  length  of  time, 

Decomposltron  of  particles  of  foi3<l  are  the  starting  points  of  this  micro- 
o  rgan  1  sm .     AbR<  1 1  u  to  cl  ea  td  i  r  i pks  within  the  mouth  is  th  e  re  m edy . 

To  attain  as  nearly  as  possible  this  condition  is  the  point  we  must  strive  for- 
There  are  three  Important  pc^rits  to  be  observed  in  best  accomplishing  this  result. 

Firsts- Re gulai-  and  correct  use  of  the  bniah  with  proper  cleansing  agents* 

Second — The  use  of  dental  floss  «!lk  between  the  teeth. 

Third — The  regular  use  of  an  autiseptic  wash  for  rinsing  the  moutli^  that  has 
germicidal  power  sufficient  to  ai^tually  destroy  germs  common  to  the  mouth  anrl 
the  organic  ferment  which  If^  the  starting  point  of  dental  caries. 

The  teeth  should  \>i^  brusbed  thoroughly  twice  a  day. 

The  brueli  should  be  of  medium  stiffnesn^  with  brl«(les  of  unequal  lengt  h,  and 
In  addition  to  the  bnishinii  Jicrosa  the  face  of  the  teeth  it  should  be  used  with  a 
rolling  motion,  brushing  dovm  on  the  upper  teeth  and  up  on  the  lower  teeth,  «io 


Dental  98 

that  the  bristles  penetrate  and  clean  between  the  teeth,  which  is  the  point  whore 
the  greatest  danger  lies.  The  backs  of  the  teeth  should  also  be  brushed  and  par- 
ticularly the  baclis  of  the  lower  central  incisors — a  point  where  tartar  is  most  apt 
to  form.  As  for  a  dentifrice  to  use  with  the  brush,  there  are  many  that  are  good 
and  some  that  are  injurious.  I  have  always  advocated  the  use  of  a  pure,  mild 
soap  and  the  finest  grade  of  precipitated  chalk,  but  it  is  important  that  they  be  of 
pure  quality,  and  this  is  not  always  easy  to  obtain,  particularly  in  the  soap. 

To  overcome  this  diflSculty  I  would  say  that  Johnson  &  Johnson  have  taken 
up  thft  manufacture  of  an  article  under  the  name  of  Lister's  Tooth  Soap  that  can 
be  depended  upon.  It  is  a  mildly  alkaline  soap  combined  with  the  finest  grade  of 
French  precipitated  chalk  and  is  the  best  article  of  the  kind  that  I  have  ever  seen. 
Any  dentifrice  containing  pumice  stone,  charcoal  or  any  gritty  substance  is  in- 
jurious. 

Dental  Floss  Silk  should  be  used  between  the  teeth  at  least  once  a  day  (at 
night)  and  preferably  after  each  meal.  It  removes  particles  of  food  that  the  most 
I>ersi8tent  brushing  could  not  reach,  and  it  is  an  important  factor  in  the  preven- 
tion of  decay.  It  can  be  obtained  on  little  flat  metal  bobbins  and  is  called  Bed 
Gross  Pocket  Dental  Floss  and  is  far  better  in  every  way  than  toothpicks. 

Now  as  to  the  use  of  a  thoroughly  antiseptic  wash  in  addition  to  the  cleansing 
described,  I  consider  it  absolutely  essential  and  with  much  experience  and  con- 
tinued investigation  upon  this  point  I  can  safely  say  that  a  solution  of  Camphenol 
is  the  best  thing  for  this  purpose.  It  is  the  only  antiseptic  that  can  be  used 
freely  within  the  mouth  that  has  sujQftcient  germicidal  power  to  accomplish  what 
is  necessary . 

One  teaspoonful  of  Camphenol  in  a  pint  of  water  is  of  sufficient  strength  for 
this  purpose.  The  mouth  should  be  thoroughly  rinsed  with  this  solution  twice  a 
day  In  connection  with  other  cleansing. 

In  addition  to  the  rules  for  cleanliness  here  given  the  teeth  should  be 
examined  by  a  competent  dentist  at  least  twice  a  year.  After  your  teeth  are  once 
put  in  good  order  and  these  rules  observed  the  chances  are  that  there  will  be  little 
or  nothing  for  him  to  do,  and  if  there  is  anything,  it  will  be  so  slight  an  operation 
that  it  will  neither  give  pain  to  your  nerves  or  your  pocketbook.  At  first  it  will 
take  some  little  perseverance  to  adhere  properly  to  these  rules.  Bemember  that 
it  is  not  the  brush  alone,  the  use  of  floss  silk  alone,  nor  the  antiseptic  wash  alone 
that  ie  to  accomplish  the  desired  result,  but  all  three  combined,  and  persistently 
used,  today,  tomorrow,  every  day.  In  a  short  time  it  will  become  so  much  a  part 
of  your  toilet  that  there  will  be  little  tendency  to  neglect  it  and  your  reward  will 
be  sound  teeth,  and  also  one  of  the  greatest  aids  toward  general  good  health,  a 
aioeety  heaUhy  mouth. 

LISTER^S  TOOTH  SOAP 

Lister's  Tooth   Soap  is  superior   to    any 
^^^^^^:../^  dentifrice  on  the  market.     It  is  a  combination 

'  t  *iTi^V^  \i\if-^-j  ^^  ^^®  finest  grade  of  precipitated  chalk  and  a 

mild  alkaline  soap  of  guaranteed  purity.  It  is 
delicately  flavored,  and  possesses  considerable 
antiseptic  properties  as  a  dentifrice,  and 
keeps  the  gums  firm  and  healthy. 

Lister's  Tooth  Soap  is  packed  in  a  beautiful 
little  slide  top  aluminum  box  and  is  the  best 
and  most  convenient  form  of  dentifrice  because : — 
It  cleanses,  polishes  and  preserves  the  teeth. 

It  forms  a  pleasant  creamy  lather  in  the  mouth,  that  carries  ofif  aU  particles 
of  food. 

It  is  the  easiest  kind  of  a  package  to  carry  when  travelling. 

It  will  not  spill  over. 

There  is  no  waste. 

One  box  will  last  for  months. 

Price,  ten  cents  a  box. 


04  ITon-Surgical  Uses  of  Adhe9i\>e  PlaMer, 

NON-SURGICAL  USES  OF  ADHESIVE  PLASTER. 

Indid-rubber  Adhesive  Plaster  has  a  great  variety  of  uses  independent  of  itii 
BUr^icai  appli(!ation,  though  the  latter  is  the  more  important  one.  In  the  drug 
store  it  has  long  been  applied  to  a  variety  of  purposes,  namely,  the  mending  of 
broken  or  cracked  graduates,  bottles,  stoppers,  etc.  It  has  excellent  qualities  for 
labeling  vessels  kept  in  cellars  and  in  damp  places,  and  for  this  purpose  the  cloth 
back  of  a  suitable  strip  of  the  plaster  is  dusted  with  French  chalk,  written  upon 
as  though  it  were  paper,  placed  upon  the  bottle  or  other  vessel  and  slightly 
warmed  to  increase  the  adhesiveness . 

It  is  also  a  very  useful  article  for  mending  clothing,  furniture,  and  especially 
india-rubber  articles,  such  as  water  bags,  syilnges,  hose,  water-proofs, 
mackintoshes,  boots,  shoes  and  a  thousand  and  one  articles  of  the  household.  In 
fact,  anything  made  of  rubber  can  be  repaired,  patched  and  made  serviceable 
through  its  use.  This  statement  includes  bicycle  tires,  for  which  large  qualities 
are  now  consumed,  as  every  rider  finds  it  an  Indispensable  article  for  his  kit,  and 
in  this  respect  it  has  superseded  all  liquid  appliances. 

Its  use  for  mending  tires  is  very  simple.  When  the  tire  is  punctured,  the 
surface  around  the  puncture  should  be  dried,  and  a  strip  of  tape  of  adhesive 
plaster  should  be  laid  over  the  hole  in  such  a  way  that  the  puncture  is  covered 
several  times  its  length.  The  tire  is  moderately  inflated  and  the  tape  pissod 
around  several  turns  of  both  the  tire  and  rim.  After  firmly  securing  the  end  the 
tire  is  infiated  to  its  full  extent. 

Still  another  use  for  this  article  is  to  seal  covered  jars,  cans,  etc.,  making  them 
damp-proof  and  air-tight.  For  this  purpose  it  is  only  necessary  to  pass  a  strip  of 
the  plaster  over  the  joints  of  the  receptacle,  for  it  will  adhere  readily  to  tin  or 
motal,  and  in  this,  it  is  superior  to  any  known  substance.  A  small  strip  can  be 
used  to  fasten  a  lid  to  a  box  making  a  very  serviceable  hinge. 

It  has  be(m  found  that  perishable  articles,  such  as  food  and  other  substances, 
when  tightly  sealed  witli  this  plaster  are  proof  against  any  climatic  change.  A 
similar  use  has  been  found  in  closing  packages  containing  photographic  material 
which,  when  sealed  with  this  material,  can  be  handled  and  shipped  to  any  part 
of  the  world  without  dotorioration,  being  well  protected  from  light  and  moisture. 

Adhesive  plaster  is  also  used  largely  in  making  up  and  repairing  electrical 
apparatus,  as  it  is  practically  a  non-conductor ;  is  waterproof  and  adaptable  to  a 
variety  of  uses.  Strips  may  be  applied  to  the  hands  to  prevent  the  action  of 
caustic  or  corrosive  liquids,  and  also  in  protecting  the  finger  by  a  **  finger-cot." 

A  quite  modern  application  for  this  plaster,  and  one  where  it  is  most  service- 
able, is  for  the  effectual  closing  of  a  room  that  is  to  be  disinfected  by  vapors,  such 
as  sulphur  fumes  or  formaldehyde  gas,  in  which  case  the  health  oiBcers  take 
narrow  strips  of  the  plaster  and  cover  all  cracks  and  crevices  In  the  doors, 
windows,  etc., — the  room  is  thus  madw  vapor  tight,  whereas  before  the  use  of 
this  substance,  the  escape  of  vapors  in  disinfecting  was  one  of  the  weakest  points 
of  the  process.  This  also  suggests  the  use  of  the  plaster  as  an  emergency 
weather  strip  or  even  to  mend  a  broken  window-pane. 

Thus  it  will  be  seen  that  the  uses  of  India-rubber  Adhesive  Plaster  are  almost 
without  number,  and  in  all  casoH  it  makes  a  cheap,  strong  and  durable  binder  so 
tlexibh^  that  it  will  conform  to  the  sbaf  o  of  any  surface.  Probably,  too,  half  of  its 
uses  have  not  yet  suggested  themselves. 


Non- Surgical  Uses  of  Adhe.^ive  Planter 


95 


We  havo  ono  of  your  accident  cases,  and  liavo  found  it  an  extromoly 
good  thiDg  to  have  in  our  office.  a»  it  is  frequentiy  called  into  use.  Wcalso 
beg  to  acknowledge  your  copy  of  Johnson's  First  Aid  ^lanual,  for  which  wc 
thank  you. 

Sheldon  Axle  Co.,  Willies-l^arre,  Pa. 

We  have  received  a  copy  of  Johnson's  First  Aid  Manual,  which  we  think 
very  complete  and  easily  understood 

Tour  Johnson's  Accident   Case  has  been   a  very  great   help  to  u.s   in 
several  accident  cases  at  our  brewery,  and  we  tliink  every  factorj'  through- 
out the  country  should  have  on(^  and  a  copy  of  your  First  Aid  Manual. 
John  F.  Betz  &  Son,  L't'd.,  Philadelphia. 


96  Bed  Croa$  Absorbent  Cotton. 

RED  CROSS  ABSORBENT  COTTON. 

Thi8  material  is  the  product  of  modern  times,  and  is  a  most  useful  article  in 
the  factory,  shop  or  household.  Absorbent  cotton  does  not  mean  ordinary  cotton, 
or  cotton  batting,  but  a  specially  prepared  material  whereby  the  elements  in  ordi- 
nary cotton  (oil,  wax,  fat,  etc.)  which  prevent  absorption,  are  removed.  Property 
prepared  absorbent  cotton  absorbs  liquids  very  freely,  and  for  this  reason  has 
come  to  be  used  quite  largely  in  surgical  dressings.  For  an  application  to  wouncis, 
absorbent  cotton  has  taken  the  place  of  material  used  for  such  purposes. 

There  are  many  kinds  of  absorbent  cotton  in  the  market,  sold  in  drug  stores, 
dry  goods  stores,  barber  shops,  and,  in  fact,  in  all  sorts  of  places.  Many  kinds  of 
(so-called)  absorbent  cotton  are  not  suited  for  wound-dressing  purposes.  Very 
often  they  are  made  in  cotton  mills  of  waste  cotton ;  are  filled  with  dirt,  dust, 
leaves,  etc.,  and  wholly  unsuited  for  wound-dressing  or  other  delicate  purposes. 

In  addition  to  the  uses  for  wound-dressings  as  suggested  throughout  this 
manual,  absorbent  cotton  has  a  large  use  for  mechanical,  laboratory  and  house- 
hold purposes.  Absorbent  cotton  is  useful  as  a  filter  for  almost  any  liquid.  It  is 
now  employed  extensively  in  filtering  water  and  solutions,  and  in  dairies  for  filter- 
ing milk  and  cream.  For  household  uses  a  filter  for  any  purpose  can  be 
quickly  made  by  wadding  some  absorbent  cotton  into  the  neck  of  a  funnel  and 
pouring  the  liquid  to  be  filtered  upon  the  cotton.  For  filtering  and  straining  pur- 
poses, cotton  is  much  more  effective  and  far  cheaper  than  any  other  substance. 
In  filtering  watery  fiuiiis  with  absorbent  cotton,  the  cotton  should  not  be  packed 
too  tightly  in  the  neck  of  the  funnel.  With  light  liquids,  the  cotton  may  be 
packed  more  firmly.  Absorbent  cotton  is  also  useful  for  a  thousand  and  one 
household  purposes  not  necessary  to  be  here  designated. 

For  all  such  purposes,  as  well  as  for  wound-dressing,  it  is  absolutely  neces- 
sary that  the  cotton  should  be  pure;  that  is  to  say,  free  from  all  chemicals,  dirt 
or  foreign  material  of  any  natuni.  In  the  largest  and  most  careful  chemical  and 
other  laboratori(^s,  in  many  of  the  most  extensive  dairies,  the  absorbent  cotton 
made  by  Johnson  &  Johnson  is  preferred  for  the  uses  above  enumerated.  Careful 
surgeons  have  found  by  experlenc<i  that  the  absorbent  cotton  prepared  by  Johnson 
&  Johnson  is  absolutely  pure,  surgically  clean,  aseptic  and  altogether  reliable  for 
dressing  wounds. 

Johnson  &  Johnson's  Absorbent  Cotton  is  put  up  in  a  blue  package;  the  cot- 
ton itself  is  rolled  in  blue  tissue,  and  upon  the  outside  package  is  a  label,  a  C(m- 
splcuous  feature  of  which  is  their  red  cross  trade-mark,  and  the  signature  of 
Johnson  &  Johnson. 

The  blue  carton  with  a  label  bearing  the  red  cross  trade-mark,  containing 
sterilized  cotton,  has  grown  in  the  minds  of  surgeons,  nurses  and  patients  to  be 
emblems  of  absolute  leliability,  and  thus  Johnson  &  Johnson's  Absorbent  Cotton 
has  attained  as  a  common  title  "Red  Cross'  Cotton. 

The  red  cross  is  the  trade-mark  of  Johnson  &  Johnson  and  appears  on  the 
labels  of  all  their  goods  as  a  guarantee  of  the  genuiness  of  their  products.  They 
also  originated  th(»  blue  carton  and  the  blue  tissue  paper  between  the  layers  of 
cotton.  But  other  makers  of  absorbent  cotton,  presumably  to  make  their  cotton 
appear  to  be  as  good  as  Johnson  &  Johnson's,  roll  their  cotton  in  blue  tissue,  put 
It  in  a  blue  carton  and,  worse  still,  print  a  label  bearing  a  red  star,  a  red  square, 
a  red  wheel  or  a  r(»d  something  that  Is  Intended  to  look  like  the  genuine  **Red 
Cross"  Cotton.  This,  however,  Is  an  unfair  and  an  unlawful  means  of  gaining 
trade ;  more  than  all.  It  Is  often  very  disappointing. 

Th(i  genuine  Johnson's  Absorbent  Cotton,  in  a  blue  carton,  bearing  their  red 
cross  trade-mark,  is  absolutely  pure  cotton ;  it  is  germ-free,  sterilized— it  costs 
no  more  than  other  kinds.  It  will  be  well,  therefore,  for  users  to  look  for  the  nni 
cross  and  the  signature  of  Johnson  &  Johnson  when  this  kind  is  desired. 


Medicated  CoOoru 


97 


MEDICATED   COTTON* 

Cotton  impregnated  with  antiseptics  or  germ-destroying  solutions  is  known  as 
antiseptic  or  medicated  cotton.  In  tlie  first  days  of  tlie  Listerian  system  of 
surgery,  antiseptic  cottons  were  Tery  largely  employed  for  wound  dressing,  but  in 
modem  times,  they  have,  to  a  great  extent,  been  replaced  either  by  plain  sterilized 
cotton,  such  as  Johnson's  Bed  Cross  absorbent  cotton  or  by  absorbent  gauze. 

The  following  kinds  of  medicated  or  antiseptic  cottons  are  prepared  by 
Jolmson  &,  Johnson  and  put  in  packages  of  various  sizes,  similar  to  absorbent 
cotton  packages. 

Carbolated  cotton,  or  absorbent  cotton  impregnated  with  carbolic  acid. — ^This 
is  intended  for  use  in  applying  carbolic  acid  to  infected  wounds.  It  should  only 
be  used  under  the  advice  of  a  physician. 

Borated  cotton  which  is  absorbent  cotton  impregnated  with  a  solution  of 

boracio  or  boric  acid.    This  has  a  mild  antiseptic  or  disinfecting  action,  and  is 

sometimes  applied  to  old  sores  and  ulcers  to  absorb  and  disinfect  the  discharges. 

Salicylated  cotton,  or  absorbent  cotton  impregnated    with    a   solution    of 

salicylic  acid.    This  should  only  be  used  under  the  advice  of  a  physician. 

Iodoform  cotton,  or  absorbent  cotton  impregnated  with  a  solution  of  iodo- 
form. The  Bed  Cross  iodoform  gauze,  elsewhere  spoken  of  in  this  manual,  is 
much  preferable  to  iodoform  cotton. 

Iodized  cotton  or  cotton  impregnated  with  iodine.  This  should  only  be  used 
under  the  advice  of  a  physician. 

Styptic  cotton,  or  absorbent  cotton  impregnated  with  a  solution  of  iron. 
This  was  formerly  used  to  a  large  extent  to  check  bleeding,  being  applied  directly 
to  the  bleeding  surface ;  the  iron  causing  a  coagulation  of  the  blood. 

Modern  surgeons  do  not  use  Styptic  cotton  for  this  purpose.  It  is  much  pre- 
ferable to  apply  pressure,  as  elsewhere  delineated  in  this  manual.  However, 
for  simple  cases  where  capillary  bleeding  is  excessive,  Styptic  cotton  can  some- 
times be  employed  with  good  effect.  It  is  also  prepared  by  Johnson  &  Johnson  in 
sheets  called  Styptic  leaves,  which  are  used  for  the  same  purpose. 

The  foregoing  medicated  or  antiseptic  cottons  can  be  procured  at  any  drug 
store. 

SURGICAL  GAUZR 
A  thin  open  mesh  cloth,  resembling  cheese-cloth  and  mosquito    netting, 
is  used  by  the  surgeon  to  a  large  extent.     Gauze  for  dressing  wounds  should 

be  especially  prepared  for  the  i)ur- 
pose,  and  should  not  be  such  as 
is  purchased  in  a  dry-goods  storo, 
as  such  gauze  has  probably  boon 
made  in  a  cotton  mill  where  the 
requirements  of  surgery  are  not  taken 
into  account. 

Johnson  &  Johnson  prepare  sur- 
gical gauze  in  a  variety  of  forms,  the 
most  useful  of  which  for  general  purpose  in  dressing  wounds,  is  what  is  known  as 
Plain  Bed  Cross  gauze.    This  is  gauze  cloth  specially  prepared  and  woven  for  sur- 


98 


Surgicat  Oauze  and  Lmtine 


glDal  parpoees,  with  all  the  foreign  elements  remoyed  and  the  gaii^e  made  VB17 
absorbent.  Many  mllUon  yards  of  this  kind  of  gauze  are  used  in  hospitals  and  by 
Burgeons  for  wound-dressing  purposes  every  year. 

Bed  Cross  Gauze  Is  put  up  In  paeliageB  of  Tadoiis  sized,  from  one  ya^d  upward* 
The  packages  are  sterilized  and  sealed,  and  are  thus  ready  for  Immediate  appli- 
cation to  any  wound* 

Gauze  cloth  is  very  convenient  material  for  use  in  the  household,  and  should 
be  substituted  for  all  kinds  of  cloths,  pads,  bandageSi  compressors,  eto*,  In  the 
sick  room,  and  for  dressing  wounds  and  sores.  Surgical  gausa  can  also  he  ob- 
tained imp  rgnated  with  antiseptics,  such  as  iodoform,  five  per  cent;  boric  aoid, 
called  bo  rated  gauze;  earbolie  acid,  called  carbolated  gauae;  corrosive  sublimate 
gauzej  et€.  The  use  of  Red  Cross  Iodoform  Gauze  has  been  spoken  of  elsewhere 
in  this  Manual ;  the  otlier  should  be  used  ordy  under  the  advice  of  a  physician. 
Gauze  cloth  can  also  be  procured  cut  up  Into  bandages  of  widths  from  one  inch 
upwards,  and  rolled  into  roUs  of  ten  yards  in  length.  These  are  very  eonv^enlent 
and  economicfil  where  extended  and  prolonged  bandaging  is  necessary, 

Johnaon^s  Accident  Case  contains  a  supply  of  Bed  Cross  bandages,  plain  Red 
Cross  GauzCj  and  Eed  Cross  Iodoform  Gauze. 

UNTHSTE 

Ijlntlne  is  highly  absorbent  cloth-like  fabric,  made  by  felting  absorbent  cotton 
flbers  into  thin  sheets,  and  Is  largely  used  for  wound  dressing  and  other  surgical 
purposes.  It  is  a  very  suitable  substance  for  many  purposes  in  the  household,  as 
a  substitute  for  absorbent  cotton^  lint,  sponges,  cloths,  towels,  etc.  It  can.  be 
refldilj  cut  Into  pads  or  cushions  of  any  desired  shape  or  size  to  suit  the  circum- 
etances.  It  absorbs  discharges  more  readily  than  ordinary  cotton  or  lint,  and  is 
much  cheaper  and  more  easily  handled. 


The  us:  -1  to  which  it  oan  be  put  are  very  nnmeuous.  Small  plecefl  may  be 
rolled  into  mops  or  sponges  for  applying  medication  to  the  thmat  or  nose.  Small 
squares  may  be  used  for  handkerchiefs  for  consumptives  and  diphthsritics.  It  Is 
also  employed  as  sanitary  napkins,  diaper  cloths,  etc.  , 

Llntine  is  surgically  clean,  sterilized  and  aseptic.  It  has  the  advantage  of 
having  no  loose  fibers  to  Irritate  a  wound  ;  no  waste ;  it  tcara  or  cuts  readily ;  is 
cleanly  and  compact  and  has  fifty  per  cent,  more  surface  than  cotton  or  lint. 


MaJternity  Outfits 

MATERNITY  OUTFITS 


99 


In  m^em  practice  in  eonflnoment  cafios  there  !©  required  a  supply  of  clean 
zed  dresaings  for  a  euGCeai^ful  outcome.  In  many  Instances  health  and  life 
\  been  saerlfteed  because  of  Infection,  due  to  the  lack  of  proper  materlalB. 
The  patient  does  not  always  know  what  is  required  for  the  maintenance  of 
arg'ical  cltsanlinoss,  and  this  is  particiilarly  true  of  young  women^  pregnant  for 
the  ftrst  time;  for,  iu  addition  to  their  entire  ignorance  on  the  subject^  they  arc 
often  so  filled  with  the  diCfldecee  of  youth  and  inexperience  that  tlxey  will  not  ask 
advice  of  their  friends  or  acquaintances. 

To  meet  this  necessity  Johnson  &  Johnson  have  provided  two  emergency  out* 

fts.     These  cases  have  been  gotten  together  by  the  aid  of  several  of  the  most 
xpertenoed  obstetricians  in  this  country. 


SIMPSON*S  MATERNITY  PACKET 
This  contains  attieles  for  which  there  are  no  emergency  substitutes.    Just 


such  articles  »s  are  necessary  for  the  comfort  of  the  mother^  the  safety  of  the 
child,  and  the  convenience  of  the  physician  and  nurse.  This  packet  list  has  been 
found  to  lack  no  single  lEtiportant  article-  Packed  securely  in  a  substantial  box 
and  protected  from  uncleauUness  and  infection^  It  contains ; 


m^ 


■v^ 


iiSM 


*  Ohb;  Obsttctbic  Shket,  a  well  minle  LilaukLji;  of  ga^AAo  and  cotton^  one  yard  square,  for  protoctlng 
tUe  tjeddlrff  and  mattr«:^B»  under  the  pBtlenc    Aftt-r  use  to  be  withdrawn  and  dostrojed^ 

OlTE  POUND  liiJffiKK,  made  of  Ht>^i'lllzed  absfiPberit  cntttm  failed  iJiti">  Hht^tts,    Thia  matprial 
i:ov^T&  60  iMsr  cenli.  more  surface  tban  eotlori  or  line,  la  more  abi^^rbent,  it  outs  and  ^i^aiu 
readilj  Intf*  o-ny  dBalrabl^  furm  of  dte«!»1n)7.     r^efLil  fcsr  i:nmpL'i^HHf4B,  {ibE^t^trtcal   pads,  ciotb 
for^overln^  boddlns,  patient's  body,  fur  absorbing  and  dlslnfoutlnji;  diseharges,  etu,,  etc. 
'two  TAaDB OF  A.9EPTIC  OAtJZE, {HtwrtUzod  and  seal^s,  for  bandages,  wash-flotha,  pti^, 

ONE  HiLrR  Liu  vTL^J:Li<:,  BtorUlzed  lu  sealed  pat;ket  (not  to  h&  opened  uotll  wanted  for  use)  for 
tying  the  iimbllif/a!,  fiord, 

O^S  ABEimc  SPoNd  El.  ^te  ringed  and  wrapped.    (Kot  to  be  opened  until  wanted  for  use)  for  absorb- 
ms*  bJitblni;  or  wasbliign 

OUtM  ODHFBEesiBi^B  TiTiiE  o^  0Allfioi.t2!Ein  PfiTaoLATFM  for  Itibrleatlon  and  Inunotl^in.    Abao 

»UL«ieCul  In  dre^lnpr  sores,  softening  si^abs^  exereficenecB  and  skin  dlseosoa*    In  the  latter  use, 
till  let  powdnr  a^rptif^d  after  nnoinilnt?  isi,  a  d^f^lrublei  adjunct. 
Osi£  ^ACTKAOE  JOHNaON"aANTiSHPTio  BABY  POWDER,  au  aiitlBoptlc  and  lif^allng  toilet  powder,  a 
deitlrable  drofiulng  for  CKe  skin.    For  ua^  aCt«r  wa&bln^  and  batlLlti^  by  rluntln^  iti  tbe  fold^ 
ant  orHVieeA  of  the  skin,  to  keep  the  skin  cool^  dry  and  soft.    It  prevents  e haling  and 
soreness. 
O^B  CAiLE  ijTjBfJEOt^a  ANTlfiEFTld  BOAPh  Useful  for  general  washing  and  disinfection  of  dlsb«i$;, 
utensils  and  Inatruraenta.  lor  disinfecting  ttie  hrtbda  of  the  pby-lelaii  and  rmtiie.  for  the 
dlalnfi^Hion  of  droMelngEi,  for  dout^he^,  Irrigation,  or  motstenlns  dressings  and  pads. 
Onk  Piece  I  if  cn.\MOi!jt  skin.  iiHoful  as  a  durable  waab-cloth  for  applying  Udlet  powder,  etc. 
OKI  HOHLfN  Bii^PEK,  HtixiS  ItLcbf^iJt.    Suniideift  tir  two  abd^»[Dlnal  bandages  of  good  width  nod 
rwnltsltM  BrmuoSH  lo  almlrably  suit  the  fkur|K>Be. 
^^Two  If^fjANNKL  BiNDKns,  6xlB  ioohfta,  for  abd'unlaal  bandagea  for  Infant. 
^HmDnk  t'li^zK'f  i^iHT  HfjUAEE^H^  for  wasblug  Infant's  eyes,  making  pads^  etc. 
^Von k  pa ck At} b  8 a Fb-Ti  Pi n^. 
^^  ONE  tJffABT,  for  use  nf  nurde  and  physician  In  making  hlrth  records. 

Simpson's  Maternity  Packet  ia  sold  at  most  drug  stores,  the  usual  price  being 
tiiree  duiiara.  If  it  cannot  be  procured,  it  may  be  ordered  direct.  In  anoh  case 
the  name  oJf  your  dealer  should  be  seat.    This  will  insure  a  savlag  of  expense. 


THa  i^OOKK  MATERNOT  OtTTFTT  OOTH^AUIS: 


TWlorTY^VOiin  (4.\f4tT,\LU  (VI  LVA)  TAiia  mtuli?  o£  abi^fbent  cQlti:tn  ileiiI  cohered  with  ble^acbed 

fft14i«(  »tnrllUinL  mid  wmiiin^^l. 
TWO  QmcTift'iKttM^  Wit  >.KTtl. 

s  K 1 1 V  \  pi  ^N ,  I  w  1  *  I  'ei  { 10  trt  1  »t  litteu  in^4  « lif^  of  Anmit  stii& 

o%K  ^  Mi.  ninsiii. 

l*witi.v  i:  sov  \t;>-s  \W  LH^TIstc  ^*r  cll^^nalns  tli*  loliuira  «3rw  luid  mouth,  immediately  nrtor  the 

Si^  v^i   -.^  <,  1^  ^^^  tliisihhwi'ihitf  Hint  liibrLr'iktlniir  thA  kt^nd^  ami  tnstrametits^ 

i,.,t  nn^ihtitiiif  iiM'  liitAUt  utttm^UAti^y  At^T  MrUi,  t:«mra  It  U  baHied. 
-  H,HJ  ti»*N  ffmtir  Annv  nit^rilt*,  f^*r  t^hviiisJixg  the  lafttnVa  «f^m  m^d  month  Imme- 

i<   •  ih,4  htrth  %it  Iho  lvi<«n«tt  nud  ftflerwatU  tor  ImiUlIhc  the  nlp^plM  ftud  imshinit  the 
iv  \  tM^tiirt^  Mill  *tu*^nu^*lw|^ 

KYl'H^  l.tNK.  lUn^Hlflt^Slllk  tUtt<k 


Txt\%  - 


.  ^in^rtltftvul  ef)T«l0n«w  far  tTt&it  owd* 
;,  otic<'  U'tiUf^  ^^r  inulDf&atl^iitia  aoliittoiustUijdtlnieof  Jjiiior» 

4>4«  ^>r  th«  lufifgAi  ^  th^  latppr  lV>r  the  bo^r  uiA  Hid  smaller  tar  the 
it>  U  priH^i'b*  ^t^rtlts«d,  wmpp^t  mid  $e«led,  mxid  tlie  wtiole  paeked 


:<>rtiHy  Ontfli  mm  h^  feetinpd  thfough  flret^elftss  ilruir  storas 
^  ^^«JliN^  hut.  ^^uld  iimam  b»  itciy  4i0leiitij  in  piooiuiiig  ih^ 


Baby  Powdm* 


101 


BabyPowder 

LKT  |H||  NWU 

^New  BRUNJwick. 
H.J. 


BABY  POWDER 

Johnson's  Antiseptic  Baby  Powder  is  a  preparation  very  markedly  superior 
to  the  oheap  toilet  powders  dispensed  so  widely.  The 
selection  of  the  best  grade  of  materials,  and  the  fact  that 
it  is  prepared  in  a  factory  where  are  the  best  facilities 
and  the  utmost  care  for  surgical  cleanliness — ensure  a 
very  superior  article. 

The  base  is  emollient  mineral  talcum.  With  this  are 
combined  antiseptics  in  the  manner  and  proportions 
recommended  by  the  leading  authorities  on  care  and 
treatment  of  the  skin. 

The  quality  of  the  base  and  the  exquisite  perfume  at 
once  stamp  Johnson's  Baby  Powder  a  delightful 
requisite  for  any  toilet  table.  It  may  be  described  as  an 
article  of  refinement. 

Johnson's  Baby  Powder  is  a  deodorant  and  a  healing 
dressing  as  well  as  a  powder.  The  highest  medical  au- 
thorities have  commended  it  on  this  account,  calling  it  a 
perfect  toilet  powder  for  mothers,  babies  and  nurses. 

Besides  its  beneficial  efifects  upon  the  tender  skin  of 
a  new-bom  infant,  Johnson's  Baby  Powder  is  surpassingly 
agreeable  and  suitable  in  the  ordinary  toilet  uses. 

DIRECTIONS  FOB  USE 

For  Babies. — As  soon  as  the  new-bom  child  has  been  washed,  the  skin  should 
be  dusted,  especially  in  the  folds  and  crevices,  with  Johnson's  Antiseptic  Baby 
Powder  after  each  time  the  Infant  Is  bathed.  This  will  prevent  chafing  and  the 
soreness  so  likely  upon  the  tender  skin. 

Around  the  face  and  mouth,  where  the  baby  is  apt  to  moisten  the  skin  fre- 
quently with  saliva,  the  powder  should  be  applied  very  often.  Its  absorbent  and 
emollient  action  will  prevent  chapping. 

Johnson's  Baby  Powder,  besides  soothing  and  softening  the  skin  of  the  infant, 
will  destroy  all  the  disagreeable  odor  of  the  body  and  supply  instead  a  delicate 
and  delightful  perfume. 

For  the  Mother. — The  skin  should  be  dusted  over  with  Johnson's  Anti- 
septic Baby  Powder  each  time  it  is  washed.  This  is  very  important,  where,  as  on 
the  thighs,  the  skin  may  be  several  times  wet  with  poisonous  discharges.  The 
antiseptic  powder  completes  the  work  of  the  antiseptic  soap ;  the  skin  is  thoroughly 
cleansed.  An  application  of  Johnson's  Baby  Powder  after  each  washing  of  the 
skin  is  much  preferable  to  a  hard  rubbing  with  a  towel.  It  secures  absolute  dry- 
ness without  the  abrading  and  chafing  entailed  by  the  hard  rubbing.  Where 
washing  must  be  frequent,  as  in  maternity  cases,  this  Is  a  most  important  point. 

In  the  period  of  nursing,  the  nipples  frequently  become  sore.  In  such  case 
they  should  be  rubbed  with  cold  cream  or  vaseline  and  then  thoroughly  dusted 
with  Baby  Powder. 

For  Perspiration.— In  cases  of  excessive  sweating,  dry  the  skin  and  dust 
the  arm  pits,  thighs,  feet,  etc.,  with  the  powder.  For  sore,  swollen,  tired,  per- 
spiringfeet,  powder  them  thoroughly  night  and  morning,  rubbing  in  the  powder,  and 
allow  it  to  remain.     Sprinkle  the  powder  into  a  new  shoe  and  it  will  go  on  easily. 

The  powder  may  be  used  frequently.  It  will  relieve  prickly  heat,  rash,  skin 
emptions  and  all  other  affections  caused  by  heat.  It  will  form  a  protective  cov- 
ering; it  will  keep  the  skin  cool,  dry  and  soft;  it  will  relieve  all  irritations,  in- 
flammations, itchings  and  burnings. 

After  Bathing. — After  bathing  or  washing,  dry  the  skin  thoroughly  and 
then  dust  the  entire  body  with  the  powder.  It  not  only  preserves  the  skin  and 
prevents  chafing,  but  it  also  absorbs  and  disinfects  all  skin  secretions.  It  is  a 
perfect  dressing,  for  it  is  not  affected  by  moisture,  does  not  cake  or  become  rancid. 
After  Shaving. — It  is  refreshing  to  use  after  shaving.  After  the  face  has  been 
washed  and  thoroughly  dried,  sprinkle  the  powder  on  the  hand  or  a  soft  cloth  and 
rub  over  the  face.  If  the  face  is  tender  apply  the  powder  on  retiring  and  allow  it 
to  remain.    It  will  keep  the  skin  cool  and  dry. 


WrlnkleB  are  formed  by  hatjitimlly  scowling,  frowning,  laughing  and  other 
hablta  of  puckering  up  the  face. 

Wrinklea  nevor  Improve  a  face  and  often  make  a  person  look  many  years  older 
than  they  really  are ;  therefore^  most  people  will  be  glad  to  learn  that,  eseept  in 
the  ease  of  very  old  people,  wrinkles  may  eaeily  be  eradicated.  The  application 
of  "  Z  O"  Adhesive  Strips  over  the  wrinkles  has  been  found  to  completely  smooth 
out  the  skin  and  leave  it  soft  and  satiny  as  a  baby*B. 

TO  REMOVE  WRINKLES  FROM  THE  FACE 

Before  retiring,  bathe  the  faee  witii  warm  water  and  wipe  dry,  then  hold  the 
wrinkled  part  tense  with  the  fingers  of  the  left  hand,  and  apply  "  25  0  '*  Adhesive 
Strips  one-quarter  inrsh  wide,  and  leave  on  all  night* 

In  some  cases  one  applk^tlon  is  sufficient  to  completely  obliterate  the 
wrlni£les,  but  much  depends  upon  the  eonditlon  of  the  sltin  and  depth  of  wrinkle. 

"Z  O  "  Adhesive  Strips  will  adhefe  without  the  aid  of  heat  or  moisture. 

To  remove  the  plaster,  daub  lightly  with  a  piece  of  cotton  or  cloth  dipped  in 
alcohol  or  kerosene  oil ;  it  will  require  but  a  few  seconds  to  moisten  the  plaster, 
which  will  then  come  off  without  pain  or  Irritation* 

Fob  Wbinklks  at  Cokkees  of  Eyes — Cut  *■  Z  O  "  Aseptic  Strips  slightly  nar- 
rower at  the  end  to  go  nearest  the  eye.  Be  sure  wrinkle  la  stretched  out  emooth 
befor*^  applying, 

Fon  Wrinkles  Above  the  EYlBEOw^a — ^Cut  *■  Z  O"  Aseptic  Strips  crescent 
shape  and  apply  over  wrinkles  h&  careful  to  hold  skin  tense  whOe  applying. 

For  WbinkiiES  Agboss  tsb  Foeehead — Hold  skin  tense  with  first  and  second 
fingers  of  left  hand,  and  apply  on  and  parallel  with  the  wrlukie* 

For  Wrinkles  Bbtwjef4N  the  Eyes— Out  *rz  0  "  Aseptic  Strips  slightly  nar- 
rower at  part  to  go  nearest  tlie  nose  ;  hold  skin  tense,  and  apply  over  wrinkle* 

For  Ybrtical  Wrinkles  at  Corners  of  Mouth^HoM  skin  tense  and  apply 
*'  Z  O  "  Ai^eptlc  at  dps  vertically  at  each  sido  of  mouth. 

Foe  Wrinklb  from  Nome  to  Corner  op  Mouth — Hold  skin  tense,  and  apply 
"  Z  O  '*  Aseptic  Strip  over  the  wrinkle ;  put  the  end  of  the  strip  close  to  the  nose. 

For  Wrinkle  t^  the  Chin — Hold  skin  tense,  and  apply  "ZO'*  Aseptic 
Strip  liorl  son  tally  over  the  wrinkle. 

For;  Double  Chin  Wbikkle — Hold  head  weU  up*  and  apply  *'  Z  O  *'  Aseptic 
Birip  over  and  pa  mile  1  with  the  wrinkle. 

"Z  O"  Aseptic  B trips  are  absolutely  non*irritating  and  aBeptlc-  The  linedt 
ftdkaoiva  plastar  mad«. 


OBLITEEATION  OF  WBINKLES  BY  THE  USE  OF  «*Z  O"  ADHESIVE  PLASTEB 


BY  BOBEBT  T.   MOBBIS,   M.   D.,   NBW  YOBK  CITY 


The  simplest  and  easiest  remedy  for 
obliterating  wrinkles  is  perhaps  found  in 
the  *»Z  O"  Adhesive  Plaster.  Its  non- 
irritating  qualities  make  it  also  a  most 
safe  agent  in  this  connection.  It  not 
only  does  not  injure  the  skin  in  any  way, 
but  improves  its  texture;  in  removing 
the  wrinkles  it  also  clears  and  beautifies 
the  complexion. 

The  technique  is  so  simple  that  a  de- 
scription scarcely  seems  necessary,  and 
the  following  illustrations  will  prove  an 
excellent  guide  for  the  application  of  the 
plaster. 

Of  course,  the  underlying  principle  is 
to  keep  the  skin  tense  for  the  longest 
possible  time.  This  is  best  accomplished 
by  applying  the  plaster  just  before  retir- 
ing, and  permitting  it  to  remain  until  the 
following  morning.  Before  applying  the 
plaster  the  wrinkled  skin  should  be 
drawn  tense  with  the  first  and   second 


fingers  of  the  left  hand,  while  the'plaster, 
in  narrow  strips  is  applied  over  the  sur- 
face and  parallel  with  the  wrinkle.  It  is 
immaterial  whether  a  wide  or  narrow 
strip  is  used,  but  as  wrinkles  usually 
make  their  appearance  at  the  angle  of 
the  eyes,  between  the  eyes,  etc.,  a  nar- 
row strip  must  be  used.  Unless  the 
wrinkle  to  be  obliterated  is  a  very  deep 
one,  it  is  never  necessary  to  apply  more 
than  one  layer  of  the  plaster  at  a  time. 

After  a  single  application  the  improve- 
ment will  be  noticeable.  No  exact  time 
can  be  stated  for  a  complete  obliteration 
of  lines,  much  depending  on  the  age  of 
the  individual,  etc, 

.  To  remove  the  plaster,  daub  it  lightly 
with  a  piece  of  cotton,  which  has  been 
dipped  in  alcohol ;  it  will  require  but  a 
few  seconds  to  moisten  the  plaster  when 
it  can  be  removed  without  causing  any 
pain  or  irritation. 


A    WRINKLE    REMOVER 

Several  surgeons  have  found  that  "Z  O"  Aseptic  Strips  are 
a  most  excellent  application  for  the  removal  of  wrinkles  about 
the  face. 


The  plaster  is  absolutely  non-irritating,  sterilized  and 
aseptic,  and  rightly  applied  will  do  the  work.  The  mode  of 
applying  is  illustrated  in  the  pages  which  follow. 

To  remove;  moisten  with  cotton  wet  in  alcohol  (or  use  kero- 
sene followed  by  alcohol,) 

JOHNSON  k  Johnson,  New  Brunswick,  N.  J.,  U.  8.  A. 


104  Emergency  Medicines 

EMERGENCY  MEDICINES 

It  is  not  the  intention  of  this  Manual  to  encourage  self-medication,  so  medi- 
cines for  internal  use  in  emergencies  are  therefore  omitted.  In  traveling,  camp- 
ping  and  exploring  expeditions,  outfits  for  simple  remedies  for  use  in  emergency 
are  sometimes  necessary,  and  in  such  cases  it  is  recommended  that  a  competent 
physician  be  consulted.  Bemedies  suitable  to  the  climate  and  other  conditions 
which  may  be  involved  can,  by  this  method,  be  selected  with  exactitude.  It  is 
particularly  urged  that  a  collection  of  drugs,  and  especially  poisons,  should  not 
be  kept  in  the  household,  factory  or  work  shop  unless  under  lock  and  key,  in 
charge  of  a  person  skilled  in  their  use. 

The  following  articles  are  mentioned  because  they  are  often  called  for  in 
factory  emergencies  and  are  more  or  less  known  in  first  aid  practice. 

Arnica. — ^The  tincture  of  arnica,  sometimes  called  arnica  liniment,  is  pop- 
ularly supposed  to  be  of  value  in  accidents,  especially  those  of  the  nature  of 
sprains,  bruises,  etc.  It  may  not  be  generally  known  that  arnica  partakes  of  the 
nature  of  a  poison,  and  is  especially  dangerous  if  taken  internally.  For  external 
application  strong  preparations  should  not  be  applied  full  strength,  as  inflamma- 
tion always  follows  in  cases  of  tender  skin.  The  tincture  or  other  preparations 
as  procured  at  the  drug  stores,  should  always  be  diluted  with  water  before  appli- 
cation. Undoubtly  the  dressings  recommended  in  this  Manual  are  superior  to 
arnica  for  cuts,  lacerations,  contusions,  etc. 

WiTCH-HAZEii. — Also  known  as  extract  of  witch-hazel,  etc.  This  is  a  popular 
remedy  for  sprains,  contusions,  wounds,  swellings,  etc.  It  forms  a  mild  and  suit- 
able application  for  chapping,  and  is  used  by  the  laity  for  bums,  scalds,  cuts 
abrasions,  as  well  as  in  irritated  and  inflammatory  conditions.  It  has  the  merit 
of  being  non-irritating,  and  can  with  propriety  be  substituted  for  arnica,  or  the 
many  highly  irritating  and  dangerous  liniments  so  often  recommended.  It  may 
be  applied  (full  strength  or  diluted  with  water)  directly  to  the  afllicted  spot  by  the 
aid  of  a  compress  made  of  gauze  or  cloths  saturated  with  the  extract  of  witch- 
hazel. 

Camphor. — CJamphor  is  supplied  by  druggists  in  the  form  of  gum  camphor, 
or  in  liquid  form  in  the  shape  of  spirits  of  camphor,  tincture  of  camphor,  etc. 
Its  properties  and  uses  are  too  well-known  to  need  comment.  It  should  be  re- 
membered, however,  that  in  large  doses,  when  taken  internally,  camphor  is  a 
narcotic  and  irritant  poison.  It  should  never  be  taken  In  the  solid  form  internally, 
except  under  the  advice  of  a  physician.  Spirits  of  camphor  if  given  internally 
should  be  diluted  with  some  other  liquid,  or  dropped  upon  sugar.  This  course 
will  prevent  irritation  of  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  mouth,  etc.  The  internal 
dose  of  the  spirits  of  camphor  is  from  one  to  twenty  drops.  Camphor  should 
never  be  applied  full  strength  directly  to  open  wounds,  irritated  or  Inflamed  sur- 
faces. 


Emergency  Medicines  105 

GiiYOEBiNE. — Glycerine  Is  often  recommended  for  bums.  Mixed  with  equal 
parts  of  rosewater  it  makes  a  very  soothing  lotion  for  chapped  hands  and,  one 
pari;  whiskey,  one  part  lemon  and  two  pari»  glycerine  is  a  well  known  cough 
remedy. 

AiiMOKiA. — It  should  be  distinctly  impressed  upon  the  mind  that  there  are 
several  preparations  of  ammonia,  and  care  is  necessary  to  distinguish  between 
them.  For  instance,  we  have  what  is  known  as  ammonia  water,  liquor  ammonia, 
or  solution  of  ammonia,  sometimes  called  spirits  of  hartshorn,  and  hartshorn. 

This  is  supplied  by  druggists  In  several  strengths,  but  in  all  strengths  it  is  an 
energetic  preparation,  highly  irritating  and  poisonous  if  taken  internally.  Ap- 
plied externally  in  any  considerable  strength,  it  will  cause  blistering  and  painful 
results.  Ammonia  in  any  form  should  not  be  applied  to  an  open  wound  or  irritated 
surfaces  (except  snake  bites,  stings  of  Insects,  etc.,  where  the  intention  is  to  neu- 
tralize the  poisons.) 

The  vapor  of  the  water  of  ammonia  inhaled  through  the  nostrils  makes  a 
p<Jwerful  impression  upon  the  nervous  system,  and  is  used  in  fainting,  epilepsy 
etc.,  but  should  be  applied  with  caution.  A  strong  preparation  of  ammonia  ap- 
plied to  the  nostrils  is  liable  to  produce  a  violent  shock.  A  handkerchief,  wad  of 
absorbent  cotton  or  other  material  should  be  sprinkled  with  the  ammonia  and 
held  at  a  safe  distance  from  the  nostrils.  Contact  with  the  skin  will  cause  irrita- 
tion. Externally,  water  of  ammonia  is  sometimes  used  in  a  diluted  form,  as  an 
application  for  external  pains,  for  mild  chilblains,  stings  of  insects,  bites  of  mos- 
quitoes, etc.     CJombined  with  olives  or  other  oils  it  forms  a  very  active  liniment. 

In  purchasing  ammonia  water,  the  buyer  should  be  cautioned  not  to  procure 
what  is  known  by  the  druggist  as  the  strongest  ammonia  water,  or  concentrated 
ammonia  water. 

Abomatio  Spirits  op  Ammonia. — This  is  the  only  preparation  of  ammonia 
intended  for  internal  use.  It  is  a  stimulant,  and  is  used  in  sick  headache, hysteria, 
colic,  fainting,  In  doses  of  from  ten  to  thirty  drops  given  in  sweetened  water. 

BiOARBONATB  OP  Soda. —Also  known  as  baking  soda,etc.  This  preparation 
should  be  distinguished  from  sal  soda  or  washing  soda,  which  is  used  quite 
largely  in  the  household* 

In  this  Manual,  soda  has  been  recommended  in  the  treatment  of  bums.  It 
is  also  recommended  for  use  as  an  antidote  in  poison  by  acidtj,  etc.  It  is  a  white 
powder,  and  is  preferably  kept  in  a  glass  bottle,  but  may  be  kept  in  a  tin  can  or 
box. 

Vaseline,  Petrolatum,  Alboline,  Cosmolinb,  etc.  are  often  recommended 
as  applications  for  burns,  scalds  or  inflammatory  conditions.  If  of  good  quality, 
they  are  useful  applications  to  a  variety  of  injuries,  being  non-irritating  and  non- 
poisonous.  They  also  have  the  merit  of  never  becoming  rancid,  and  are  preferable 
to  ointments,  cold  cream,  etc.,  for  emergency  uses.  Many  first  aid  manuals  re- 
commend the  use  of  carbolized  vaseline,  but  this  possesses  no  advantages  over 
the  plain  preparation.* 

Turpentine. — What  is  known  as  the  spirits  or  oil  of  turpentine  is  considered 
as  a  necessary  adjunct  to  first  aid.  In  former  days  it  was  applied  to  wounds, 
ulcers,  burns,  etc.  as  an  antiseptic,  and  to  promote  rapid  healing.     Applied  full 


106  Emergency  MedixAms. 

strength  it  is  highly  irritating  and  may  be  used  wherever  mustard  has  been 
recommended  as  an  extemai  application,  but  mustard  plasters  are  much  more 
convenient  and  safe. 

When  applied  externally,  a  soft  cloth  should  be  dipped  in  turpentine,  wrung 
out  nearly  dry  and  laid  on  the  surface.  Where  it  is  necessary  in  an  emergency 
to  clean  the  wound  of  grease,  soot,  etc.,  turpentine,  or  ordinary  benzine,  or 
naptha  may  be  used.  It  should  be  noted  that  both  of  these  preparations  are 
inflammable,  and  should  not  be  used  near  an  open  light.  Turpentine  should  not 
be  given  internally  except  under  the  advice  of  a  physician. 

Whiskey. — ^Whiskey,  brandy,  wine  and  other  spirits  are  considered  as  a 
necessary  adjunct  for  first  aid.  Their  free  use  is  not  recommended.  Very  often 
they  do  more  harm  than  good.  Hot  water,  coffee,  tea,  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia 
are  to  be  preferred.    (See  Shock). 

When  it  is  considered  necessary  to  use  stimulants,  they  should  be  of  the  very 
best  quality,  and  should  be  used  in  small  doses,  in  hot  water,  repeated  if  neces- 
sary. Children  should  never  be  given  spirituous  stimulants  except  in  extreme 
cases,  such  as  in  collapse,  where  ten  to  twenty  drops  may  be  given  in  water. 

Peppermint. — The  essence  of  peppermint  or  the  tincture  of  peppermint  is  a 
well  known  and  popular  remedy  as  an  anti-spasdomlc,  a  remedy  in  vomiting,  colic, 
bowel  complaints,  etc.  The  usual  dose  is  from  ten  to  twenty  drops  on  sugar  or 
in  sweetened  water. 

The  oil  of  peppermint  is  a  very  strong  preparation  and  should  not  be  used 
except  under  the  advice  of  a  physician. 

GiNGEK. — The  essence  or  tincture  of  ginger  is  a  popular  carmidity,  and  is 
used  in  troubles  of  the  digestive  organs,  bowel  complaints,  etc.  The  dose  is  from 
ten  to  forty  drops  in  sweetened  water,  milk,  wine  or  other  liquid. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Temper ATUBB  of  the  Sick  Room. — Sixty-eight  degrees  Fahrenheit  is  con- 
sidered a  good  average  temperature  for  the  sick  room.  In  certain  diseases,  such 
as  fever,  brain  trouble,  etc.,  it  is  sometimes  allowed  to  run  lower  than  this,  but 
in  throat  and  chost  affections  it  should  be  higher. 

When  a  patient  is  being  washed  or  dressed,  or  a  change  is  made  of  clothing 
or  sheets,  the  temperature  should  be  kept  at  about  seventy  or  thereabout.  Dur- 
ing the  night  and  towards  morning  the  sick  or  injured  person  is  very  susceptible 
to  a  change  of  temperature,  and  at  the  time  care  should  be  taken  of  the  room 
and  covering  of  the  person. 

VentiiiATION.— A  constant  and  uniform  supply  of  fresh  air,  and  the  removal 
of  impure  a:r  is  important  in  the  sick  room.  Tlie  best  method  of  introducing 
pure  air  without  injuring  the  patient  is  to  drop  tlie  window  slightly  at  the  top. 
To  change  the  air  in  the  sick  room  open  the  windows  in  an  adjoining  room  and 
admit  the  air.  After  the  air  thus  introduced  has  been  warmed,  open  the  door  be- 
tween the  two  rooms  and  swing  it  back  and  forth.  This  will  bring  in  a  supply  of 
pure  warm  air. 

Air  is  not  pure  simply  because  it  is  cold ;  the  air  of  the  corridor  or  hallway 
may  be  very  impure  and  yet  cold.     Night  air  is  not  necessarily  dangerous. 


Miscellaneous.  107 

The  plumbing  and  drainage  from  the  sick  room  should  be  carefully  examined, 
and  if  considered  a  source  of  danger,  the  connections  with  the  sewer  should  be 
closed  by  corks. 

Baths. — Ck)ld  baths  are  used  to  reduce  fever,  in  heat  stroke  and  other  cases 
where  the  temperature  is  high .  The  usual  method  is  to  put  the  patient  into  a 
bath  between  seventy  and  eighty  degrees  Fahrenheit,  and  reduce  the  temperature 
by  adding  cool  water  until  it  reaches  sixty  or  sixty-five  degrees. 

Tepid  baths  are  those  in  which  the  temperature  of  the  water  varies  from 
oighty  to  ninety  degrees.  In  warm  baths,  the  temperature  varies  from  ninety  to 
a  little  less  than  one  hundred.  These  two  baths  are  used  where  there  is  excite- 
ment, irritability,  or  affections  of  the  nervous  system,  etc. 

Hot  baths  are  useful  in  cases  of  shock  or  apparent  drowning,  depression,  etc. 
The  temperature  of  water  in  a  hot  bath  varies  from  ninety-eight  to  one  hundred 
and  ten  degrees  Fahrenheit. 

Upon  leaving  the  bath  the  skin  should  be  quickly  dried  and  the  person  put  to 
bed  as  quickly  as  possible.  Hot  baths  may  produce  fainting,  and  should  always 
be  taken  in  the  presence  of  an  attendant.  Always  use  a  thermometer  to  take  the 
temperature  of  the  water ;  the  hand  is  very  deceptive. 

The  Pulse. — The  average  pulse  rate  in  an  adult  is  seventy-six  beats  per 
minute.    This  rate  varies  according  to  age,  as  shown  in  the  following  tables : 

At  birth 130-140 

1st  year 115-130 

2d      "     100-115 

3d      "     95-105 

7-14  "     80-90 

14-21  **     75-80 

21-60  ** 70-75 

Old  age     75-80 

In  a  female  the  pulse  is  from  ten  to  fifteen  beats  quicker  than  in  a  male  of  the 
same  age.  The  pulse  is  also  quickened  by  excitement,  after  taking  f©od ;  and  is 
retarded  by  cold,  sleep  or  fatigue. 

To  count  the  pulse  place  the  finger  over  the  artery  at  the  wrist ;  count  the 
beats  for  fifteen  seconds,  multiply  this  by  four,  and  the  result  is  the  number  of 
beats  per  minute . 

Respiration. — The  average  respirations  per  minute  in  an  adult  of  good 
health  is  from  sixteen  to  twenty.  The  respiration  varies  according  to  age,  etc., 
as  is  shown  by  the  foUlowing  table : 

At  birth 44 

5  years 26 

15-20       '*     20 

20-25       "    18-19 

25-30       '* 16 

30-50       "     18 

The  respiration  can  be  counted  by  watching  the  movements  of  the  chest ;  by 
listening  to  the  breathing,  or  by  placing  the  hands  upon  the  chest  and  count, 
ing  the  number  of  movements  per  minute. 

Bedsores. — Bedsores  form  in  a  weak  or  emaciated  person  about  the  hips,  on 
he  spine,  shoulder-blade,  or  wherever  the  bones  press  upon  the  fiesh.  Bedsoree 
caused  by  neglect  are  often  the  cause  of  death. 


108  Miscellaneous, 

They  should  be  treated  when  the  first  sign  of  redness  or  pain  appears.  The 
part  should  be  bathed  several  times  a  day  with  alcohol  and  water.  The  pressure 
should  be  relieved  by  taking  some  pillows,  arranging  them  and  placing  the  body 
upon  them  without  allowing  the  affected  place  to  touch  anything.  Air  pillows  can 
be  procured  for  such  purpose.  In  absence  of  these,  adhesive  plaster  strips  ap- 
plied in  such  a  way  as  to  relieve  the  pressure,  or  better  still  the  vaccination 
shields  referred  to  in  another  part  of  this  manual  can  be  utilized . 

Apparent  Death. — Hold  the  hand  of  the  person  apparently  dead  before  a 
candle  or  other  light,  the  fingers  stretched,  one  touching  the  other,  and  look 
through  the  space  between  the  fingers  toward  the  light.  If  the  person  is  living,  a 
scarlet  red  color  will  be  seen  where  the  fingers  touch  each  other,  due  to  the  still 
circulating  fiuid  food  as  it  shows  itself  between  the  transparent,  but  yet  con- 
gested tissues.  When  life  is  extinct  this  phenomena  ceases.  Another  method  is 
to  take  a  cold  piece  of  polished  steel,  for  instance  a  razor  blade  or  table  knife, 
hold  this  under  the  nose  and  before  the  mouth ;  if  no  moisture  condenses  upon  it, 
it  is  safe  to  say  that  there  is  no  breathing. 

In  cases  of  severe  shock,  etc.,  it  is  not  sufficient  to  test  the  cessation  of  the 
heart-beat  by  feeling  of  the  pulse  at  the  wrist.  An  acute  ear  can  generally  detect 
the  movement  of  the  heart  by  the  sound  when  the  ear  is  applied  to  the  chest  or 
back.  The  electric  battery  may  be  used  under  the  advice  of  a  physician  in 
doubtful  cases.  Ordinarily  it  is  very  easy  to  decide  between  life  and  death,  and 
the  fear  of  being  buried  alive  is  without  good  foundation. 

In  cases  of  death  and  apparent  death,  it  is  best  to  disturb  the  patient  as  little 
as  possible.  Do  not  unnecessarily  alarm  friends,  and  do  not  give  up  working 
while  there  is  the  slightest  ground  for  hope.  The  attendant  should  notice  the 
exact  time  at  which  death  takes  place.  CJare  should  be  tak^^n  not  to  announce 
death  prematurely.  Shortly  after  death  there  may  be  a  high  rise  of  temperature, 
produced  by  chemical  changes  in  the  food.  This  rise  of  temperature  is  followed 
by  a  pecular  stiffening  of  the  muscles,  called  «*  rigor  mortis.*  Before  this  latter 
condition  takes  place,  the  body  should  be  prepared  for  buiial.  If  no  undertaker 
is  at  hand,  the  body  should  be  washed  with  a  weak  solution  of  some  disinfectant, 
such  as  Camphenol,  Surgeons  Cresol  Soap,  etc. 

If  there  is  any  difficulty  in  keeping  the  eyes  shut,  put  a  small  wisp  of  cotton 
upon  each  eye  ball  under  the  lid.  To  keep  the  mouth  closed,  put  a  firm  wedge 
under  the  jaw  in  the  hollow  of  the  throat.  After  the  jaw  is  firmly  set,  the  wedge 
may  be  removed.  Straighten  the  limbs  by  tying  the  feet  together  with  a  tape. 
Pack  all  the  orifices  of  the  body  with  absorbent  cotton;  bind  a  cloth  around  the 
hips.  Over  this  any  clothing  desired  may  be  adjusted.  Cover  the  face  and  all 
with  a  sheet.  Any  slight  discolorations,  etc.,  may  be  made  less  conspicuous  by 
by  dusting  them  over  with  toilet  powder. 

After  the  removal  of  the  body,  the  room  should  be  thoroughly  cleansed,  all 
the  appliances  removed,  the  bedding  and  clothing  sent  out  to  be  disinfected,  and 
the  room  cleansed  and  disinfected. 

Hints  on  Feeding  an  Invalid. — The  kind  of  food  to  be  given  in  every  caes 
should  be  decided  by  the  physician ;  how  to  prepare  and  administer  food  is  a 
matter  for  the  attendant.  Everything  should  be  the  best  of  its  kind,  well  cooked, 
season  d  and  served.    Food  should  never  be  prepared  in  the  presence  of  an  in- 


Miscellaneous.  109 

valid,  nor  should  the  smell  of  cooking  be  allowed  to  reach  him.  The  attendants 
should  never  eat  in  the  sick  room.  Everything  should  be  served  as  nicely  as 
possible ;  clean  napkins,  spotless  china,  shining  silver  and  glass.  Avoid  having 
anything  spilled  over  the  outside  of  dishes,  upon  the  tray^  etc.  Hot  things  should 
be  served  very  hot,  and  cold  ones  very  cold.  Sick  persons  require  more  salt  and 
less  sugar  than  those  in  health.  Bring  everything  into  the  sick  room  nicely 
covered,  either  with  dishes  or  napkins.  Whatever  is  not  eaten  should  be  at  once 
taken  away ;  it  is  always  better  to  bring  too  little  than  too  much.  Ascertain  from 
the  physician  how  much  it  is  desirable  that  the  patient  should  take  in  twenty-four 
hours,  and  divide  the  quantity  up  into  portions  suitable  for  regular  intervals. 
As  a  rule  the  patient  should  never  be  arousea  from  sleep  for  food.  Nourishment 
the  last  thing  at  night  will  often  help  send  the  patient  to  sleep. 

If  the  patient  is  helpless  the  attendant  should  assist  by  giving  the  food 
slowly,  in  small  quantities  allowing  each  morsel  to  be  swallowed  before  another  is 
given.  If  there  is  difficulty  in  swallowing  take  advantage  of  the  inspiration. 
In  feeding  a  patient  see  that  his  head  is  not  turned  to  either  side,  as  this  may 
cause  the  food  to  run  out  at  the  corner  of  the  mouth  instead  of  down  the  throat. 
Fluid  food  can  be  given  conveniently  through  a  bent  glass  tube,  which  is  procur- 
able at  the  drug  stores. 

In  fevers  there  is  often  great  thirst,  If  the  physician  advises,  it  is  quite  safe 
to  allow  the  patient  all  the  water  he  may  desire.  It  should  be  noted  that  a  small 
glass  full  of  water  will  be  much  more  satisfactory  than  the  same  quantity  in  a 
larger  vessel.  Slightly  bitter  or  acid  drinks  quench  the  thirst  more  fully  than 
water  alone.  Hot  water  quenches  thirst  better  than  cold.  Bits  of  ice  are  often 
refreshing.  Small  bits  of  ice  swallowed  whole  are  excellent  to  control  vomiting. 
Sips  of  very  hot  water  are  very  serviceable  in  vomiting. 

FORMULAS. 

Cabbon  OrL. — For  burns,  scalds,  etc.  Mix  equal  parts  of  lime  water  and  raw 
linseed  oil ;  shake  thoroughly.  This  forms  a  thick,  cream-like  emulsion  that  will 
keep  almost  indefinitely.  Where  burning  accidents  are  frequent,  this  mixture 
should  be  kept  on  hand  ready  for  use.  It  can  be  used  freely,  as  no  harm  will 
arise  from  the  application  of  any  amount.  If  Unseed  oil  is  not  at  hand,  in  an 
emergency  olive  oil  or  cotton  seed  may  be  used  instead.  Linseed  is,  however, 
the  best. 

Limb  Watbb. — Lime  water  may  be  procured  ready  made  at  any  drug  store, 
and  the  lime  water  obtained  from  reliable  druggists  is  fit  for  both  internal  or  ex- 
ternal use.  For  external  use  in  an  emergency  where  a  drug  store  is  not  at  hand, 
take  a  piece  of  lime  weighing  about  one-half  ounce  (about  the  size  of  a  walnut), 
slack  it  by  gradually  pouring  water  over  it  in  small  portions  at  a  time ;  when 
slacked  put  in  a  bottle  or  other  vessel  and  pour  on  a  quart  of  water  (cold) ;  let  it 
stand ;  pour  off  as  wanted  for  use.  In  an  emergency  it  may  be  used  at  once  with- 
out clarifying. 


110 


Index 


INDEX 


Abdomen,  bleeding  of 10 

wound  of 18 

Absorbent  Cotton,  Red  Cross 96 

Accklent  Case,  Johnson's 46 

contents 47 

description  and  uses. . .  .47 

household 55 

Accidents,  preparation  for 71 

Accidents,  electricity 35 

how  to  avoid 44 

machinery  and  railroad 29 

Acid  poisons 80-81-82-83 

Acids,  symptoms  and  treatment  of 

80-81-82-83 

Adhesive  Plaster 54 

Adhesive  plaster,  non-surgical  uses ...  94 

Alboline,  uses  of 105 

Ammonia,  uses  of 105 

Anginla  pectoris,  treatment  of 85 

Animals,  communicable  diseases  of     .77 

Ankle,  sprained 36-72 

Antiseptic  cotton 97 

Antiseptic  soaps,  uses  of 90 

Apoplexy ;  .34 

Apparent  death  108 

Arm,  bleeding  from 10 

crushed 30 

large  sling  for 58 

small  sling  for 58 

upper  part  brolcen 27 

wounds  of 18 

Armpit,  bleeding  from 9 

Arnica,  uses  of 104 

Arrows,  removal  of ^ ...  .19 

Arrest  bleeding 13-14-15 

Arterial  bleeding 7-12 

Asthma,  treatment  of 85 

Back,  bandages  for 57 

Bandages,  cotton  roller 49 

Esmarchs'  triangular 56 

for  back 57 

for  chest 57 

for  forearm • 57 

for  hand 57 

for  neck 57 

for  scalp 56 

for  wrist 57 

roller  gauze .49 

triangular 61 

Baby  Powder 101 

Bandaging 56-63 

Baths 107 

Bedsores,  treatment  of 107 

Bicarbonate  of  soda,  uses  of 105 

Blanket,  litter 70 


Bleeding, 7 

after  it  has  been  stopped 11 

arterial .7-12 

capillary 7-12 

Bleeding  don't 15 

fainting  from 8 

from  arm 10 

from  armpit 9 

from  capillary  vessels 8 

from  forearm 10 

from  lungs 12 

from  neck 9 

from  nose. . . , 12 

from  scalp 9 

from  special  parts 9 

from  stomach 12 

from  temple 9 

from  wrist. , ,10 

internal 12 

of  abdomen 10 

of  leg  below  knee 11 

of  chest 10 

of  face 9 

of  fingers 10 

of  palm  of  hand 10 

of  thigh 10 

venous 7-12 

Bones,  broken 22 

Broken  bones 22 

joints 26 

thigh 25 

upper  arm 27 

wrist 27 

Bruises 20 

Burns  and  Scalds 31 

Camphenol 77 

Camphor,  uses  of 104 

Capillary  bleeding 7-12 

Care  of  the  teeth 92 

Carron  Oil,  formula  for 109 

Centipede,  sting  of 21 

Chest,  bandages  for  the 57 

bleeding  of  the 10 

crushed 31 

wounds  of 18 

Children,  cases  of  emergency 86 

Cholera,  how  spreads 73 

Cholera-morbus,  treatment  of 85 

Colic,  treatment  of 85 

Collar  bone,  fracture  of 24 

Consumption,  how  spread 73 

Cooke  Maternity  Outfit 100 

Cosmoline,  uses  of 105 

Communicable  Diseases  of  Animals    . .  77 
Contagious  disease 73 


Index 


111 


Ootton,  absorbent 50 

antiseptic 97 

medicated 97 

Red  Cross  obsorbeiit 96 

Cramps,  treatment  of 86 

Croup,  treatment  of 86 

Crushed  arms  and  legs 30 

chest 31 

fingers 30 

hands  or  feet 30 

Death,  apparent. 108 

Diarrhoea,  treatment 85 

Diphtheria,  how  spread 73 

Dirt  in  wounds 16 

Diseases^  pretention  of 74 

the  eeeds  of 73 

to  prevent  spiead  of 74 

Diseases,  how  spread,  consumption, 
diphtheria,  measles,  mumps, 
pneumonia,  scarlet  fever, 
skin  diseases,  small-pox, 
sore  eyes,  sore  throat,  ty- 
phoid fever,   typhus   fever, 

whooping  cough 73 

Disinfection 74 

by  camphenol 77 

by  sulphur 75 

by  formaldehyde 76 

with  Surgeon's  soap 52 

Dislocation 36 

Dog  soap,  Lister's 92 

Domestic  Emergencies 85 

Dressings 53 

Dressing  of  wounds 45 

Drowned  persons,  to  find 42 

Drowning 39 

rules  in 42 

to  keep  from 42 

Earache,  treatment  of 86 

Ear.  foreign  bodies  in 38 

Electricity  accidents. 35 

Emergencies,  domestic 85 

fire-kit 55 

medicines 104 

Emetics 79-80 

Epilepsy 34 

Esmarch's  triangular  bandages 56 

Eye,  foreign  bodies  in  the 37 

Face,  bleeding 9 

Fainting 34 

from  bleeding 8 

First  A.ld  Packet 48 

Fractures 22 

Fiucture  box 28 


Fracture,  compound 22 

of  the  collar-bone. ...  24 

of  the  fingers 27 

of  the  foot 27 

of  the  hand 27 

of  the  jaw 24 

of  the  knee-pan 26 

of  the  leg 72 

of  the  leg  below  the  knee.  .26 

of  the  nose ^ 24 

of  the  ribs 25 

of  the  shoulder  blade 25 

of  the  skull 24 

of  the  thigh 72 

of  the  spine 24 

simple 22 

treatment  of 22 

Feeding  invalids,  hints  on 108 

Feet,  crushed 30 

Fever,  treatment  of 85 

Fingers,  bleeding  from 10 

crushed 30 

dislocated 36 

fracture  of 27 

Fire  kit 55 

First  Aid  bandaging 58 

First  Aid  Packets. .47 

Johnson's 47 

First  aid  to  the  wounded 16 

First  th  ng  to  do 5 

Fish-hooks,  removal  of 19 

Fits 34 

Forearm,  bandages  for 57 

bleeding  from 10 

Foot,  fracture  of .27 

sling  for 58 

sprain  of 36 

Foreign  bodies  In  the  eye>  nose  and  ear     ■  37 

Frostbite 33 

Fumigation  by  formaldehyde 76 

Fumigation  by  sulphur 75 

Gauze,  iodoform 50 

plain 49 

surgical 97 

Ginger,  uses  of 106 

Glycerine,  uses  of 105 

Gunshot,  wounds  from  20 

Hand,  bandage  for 57 

crushed 30 

fracture  of 27 

Hanging 43 

Head,  wounds  of 18 

Hernia,  treatment  of 86 

Hiccough,  treatment  of 85 

Hip,  sling  for 58 

Household  Accident  Case 55 

Hysterics 34 


112 


Index 


Insect  borne  diseases 78 

Insensibility 35 

Internal  bleeding 12 

Invalids,  hints  on  feeding 108 

Jaw,  fracture  of ...  24 

Johnson's  Accident  Case 46 

contents 47 

description  and  uses 47 

Johnson's  First  Aid  Packet 47 

Johnson's  Sulphur  Fumigators 75 

Joints,  broken 26 

Knee-pan,  fracture  of 26 

Kit,  emergency  fire 55 

Lacerated  wounds 18 

Leg,  broken  below  knee 26 

crushed 30 

fracture  of 72 

Ligatures 51 

Lime-water,  formula  for 109 

Lint,  absorbent 53 

Lintine    98 

Lister's  Dog  Soap. 92 

Lister's  Fumigator 76 

Lister's  Tooth  Soap 93 

Lower  limbs,  wounds  of 18 

Lungs,  bleeding  from 12 

Machinery  accidents 29 

Maternity  outfits^  Simpson's  and  Cooke's 

99  100 

Measles,  how  spread 73 

Medicated  soap 89 

Medicines,  emergency 104 

Methods  of  transporting  wounded 70 

Mumps,  how  spread 73 

Mushrooms,  symptoms 84 

Mtsstard  plaster 87 

how  to  fix 88 

Nails,  removal 19 

Neck,  bandages  for 57 

bleeding  of 9 

Needles,  removal  of 19 

Nervousness,  treatment  of 86 

Neuralgia,  treatment  of 86 

Nose-bleed 12 

Nose,  fracture  of 24 

foreign  bodies  in  the. 38 

Obliteration  of  wrinkles 102 

Packets,  First  Aid 47 

Plain  gauze 49 

Plaster,  adhesive 54 

adhesive,  uses  of 95-102 

mustard 87 


Peppermint,  uses  of 106 

Petrolatum,  uses  of 105 

Pneumonia,  how  spread 73 

Preparation  in  accident  cases     71 

Prevention  of  Disease 75 

Pierced  wounds 19 

Poisons 79-80 

acid 80-81-82-83 

vegetable 84 

Poisoned  wounds 20 

Protection  from  disease 75 

Punctured  wounds 19 

Pulse 107 

Railroad  accidents 29 

Red  Cross  Absorbent  Cotton 96 

Respiration 107 

Resuscitation  of  drowning  persons-  .39-40-41 

Roller  bandage , 64 

cotton 49 

gauze 49 

Ribs,  fracture  of 25 

Rupture  of  varicose  veins 8 

Scalds  and  Bums 31 

Scalp,  bandages  for 56 

bleeding  from 9 

Scarlet  fever,  how  spread 73 

Small-pox,  how  spread 73 

Snake  bite 20-21 

Spanish  windlass 10 

Sprains 36 

Standard  disinfectants 74 

Strangulation,  treatment  of 86 

bick-room 74 

temperature 106 

Signs  of  surgical  shock 6 

Simple  fracture 22 

Skin  diseases,  how  spread 73 

Slings 24 

foot 58 

hip 58 

large  arm 58 

small  arm 58 

Spine,  fractures  of 24 

Splinters,  removal  of 19 

Splints ,  .- 23 

Stings  of  scorpions 21 

centipedes 21 

tarantulas 21 

Shock,  surgical 6 

Shoulder-blade,  fracture  of 25 

Soda,  uses  of  bicarbonate  of 105 

Sore  eyes,  how  spread 73 

Sore  throat,  how  spread 73 

Soaps,  medicated 89 

Soap,  Surgeons 52 

Stomach,  bleeding  of 12 

Skull,  Jracture  of 24 


Index 


Saffocatba 43 

Sulphur  fumigation 75 

Sunburns 33 

Sunstroke 33 

Suppression  of  urine 86 

Surgeons  soap,  disinfection  with 52 

Surgical  gauze : 97 

Symptoms  of  acid  poisons. .  .80-81-82-83 

Syncope 8 

Synol  Soap 91 

how  to  use 91 

Tablets,  antiseptic 52 

Tarantulas,  sting  of 21 

Transportation  of  wounded 68-69 

Temperature  of  sick  room 106 

Temple,  bleeding  from 9 

The  seeds  of  disease 73 

Treatment  of  acid  poisons 80-81 

colic 85 

fractures 22 

scalds  and  bums. . .  31-32 

sunstroke 33 

wounds 17-18 

for  bleeding  from  arteries  7 

capillaries 7 

veins 7-8 

of  fever 85 

surgical  shock 6 

in  cases  of  angina  pec- 
toris, asthma,  cholera- 
morbus,  cramps,  eroup, 
diarrhoea,  dysentery,  ear- 
ache, hernia,  hiccough, 
nervousness,  neuralfila, 
strangulation,  suppres- 
sion of  urine  and  vomit- 
ing  86 

Thigh,  fracture  of , . .  72 

bleeding  of 10 

broken 25 

Triangular  bandage 48-58 

Thorns,  removal  of 19 

Throat,  foreign  bodies  In  the 38 

Toes,  crushed 30 

Turpentine,  uses  of 105 


Typhoid,  how  spread 73 

Typhus,  how  spread 73 

Unconsciousness ^ .35 

Uremia 34 

Urine,  suppression  of 86 

Uses  of  antiseptic  soap 90 

Varicose  veins,  rupture  of 8 

Vaseline,  uses  of 105 

Vegetable  poisons 83 

Veins,  rupture  of  varicose 8 

Venous  bleeding 7-12 

Ventilation 106 

Vomiting,  treatment  of 85 

Whiskey,  uses  of 106 

Windlass,  Spanish 10 

Wrinkles,  obliteration  of 102 

Witch  Hazel,  uses  of 104 

Wood's  Fumlgator 78 

Wrist,  bandages  for 57 

bleeding  from 10 

broken 27 

sprains  of 36 

Whooping  cough,  how  spread 73 

Woands 16 

Wounds,  dressing  of 45 

Wounded,  first  aid  to  the. . ; 16 

Wounded^  transportation  of 68-69 

Wounds,  dirt  in 16 

from  snake  bite 20-21 

bites  of  dogs,  cats,  rats. 21 

gun  shot 20 

lacerated 18 

hints  on  dressing 21 

of  abdomen 18 

of  arm 18 

chest 18 

head 18 

lower  limb 18 

pierced  or  punctured 19 

poisoned 20 

Yellow  fever,  how  spread 73 


1X4 


AduertisMineni. 


JOHNSON'S  BELLADONNA  PLASTER 


Belladotma  3^  onG  of  the  most  valuable  drugs  known  to  medicine.  As  an 
oxtet-nal  remedy  to  cure  and  relieve  pain,  and  for  many  other  diseased  coadi* 
tlcms,  there  ia  do  remedy  equal  to  a  Btjiladonna  Plaster*  Dr.  Caldwell, 
Professoi-  of  Materia  Medioa,  Bush  Medical  Oollage,  says:  '^Xhe  actloa  of 
BeiladoniLa  In  a  plaster  form  is  a  thousand  times  stronger  than  when  taken 
internally/' 

Johnson's  Belladouna  Plasters  are  made  to  give  the  exact  and  the  full  and 
curative  effect  of  beiladomia,  to  relieve  pain  and  cure  disease. 


l<rf\ 


\^^/^ 


xrm^ 


Bet/attonnaPiaslB^ 


PrBpsrad  by 


at^tcd  iahruQfi*^!  BeUtdonina  P^Mtxtn  for  iLse 
In  Oie  plocv  fiF  liE&riy  sH  other  liTndi.  «rf  Ptutcn. 


-1   «B    f  I^AAtLj    I 


^Mv«  t  .iMutjF  J  t-miam. 


«  fl  p  ■*»■'■««'« 
CXCCLLEWe 


RHEUMATISM,  LAMENESS, 
DlZZltJESS,  NUMBNESS, 
HEADACHE,  WEAK  BACKp 
PAINFUL  JOINTS,  NEURALGIA, 
MUSCULAR  RHEUMATISM,  GOUT, 
SCIATICA,  WEAKNESS  OF  JOIKTa 
STIFFNESS  OF  MUSCLES, 
LUNG  AND  CHEST  PAIKS, 
PNEUMONIA,  COLD  ON  CHEST, 
PLEURISY,  BRONCHITIS, 
LUMBAGO,  SPINAL  PAINS, 
BACKACHE,  ASTHMA, 
LOCAL  CONGESTION, 
WHOOPING  COUGH, 
PAINFUL  COUGH, 
ITCHING  CHILBLAINS,  Eti^ 


Bepresentative  hospitals,  Journals  and  physicians  have  adopted  and  endorsed 
Johnson's  Belladonna  Plaster  as  giving  uniform  and  pronounced  eurative  eiTeet^, 

"  After  a  careful  test  of  Johnson*s  Belladonna  Plasters  in  the  Philadelphia 
Hospital  for  Skin  Diseases,  I  find  an  Increased  action  and  more  immediate  effeet." 
— Johtt  Y,  SUooitiaker,  M.  D. 

♦*  I  am  gr*?atly  ph^nsed  with  Johnson's  Belladonna  Plaster*  I  find  it  gives  a 
quicker  and  belter  effoet  than  any  other  I  have  hitherto  u&ed,"— Dr.  D,  H.  Agnew, 
University  of  Pennsylvania, 

The  true  Johnson's  Belladonna  has  the  Bed  Cross  Seal  on  each  plantar. 


JOHNSON  &  JOHNSON,  New  Brunswick*  N,  J„  U-  S.  A. 


AdvertisrnneatM 


Ut 


JOHNSON'S   DIGESTIVE  TABLETS 


ALSO    KNOWN   AB  PAPOIDS 


Faoslmllo  of  BmiiJI  nSz^ 
pnckage  oi  JohnaoD'^ 
Tablets,  Price,  fiO  centa. 


Johnson's  Digestive 

Tablets  have  an   agree- 
able taste  and  odor,  may 

be  swallowed  wholet 

chewed  or  dissolved    tn 

the    mouth.     Dosage    la 

accurate  atid  convenient 

to  take  at  such,  intervals 

as  may  be  desired. 
These  tablets  are  made 

fii.'{or!lmg  to  the  follow- 
ing formula :    Papold»  gr* 

l.j  Soda  Bicarb.,  grs.  lii ; 

Sac  eh.    Laetis^  Menth. 

pip,,  qs. 
Johnson *a  Digestive 
Tablets  are  put  up  In  two  stod  packages ;  small 
si^s  contains  flfty  doses,  enough  to  do  a  great  deal 
of  good  and  in  many  eases  effect  a  cure.  They  are 
packed  in  a  flat,  blue  glass  bottle  that  is  con- 
venient to  carry  in  the  pocket.  The  bottle  is  In- 
cased in  a  yellow  paper  carton,  which  bears  the 
distinguishing  label,  as  ahown  in  the  cut,  and  sells 
for  flfty  cents. 

The  large  sized  package,  known  as  Physicians* 
stae,  is  for  the  convenience  of  physicians  and  dia- 
penaers  or  for  cases  where  It  becomes  necessary  to   phyBlciaQs'  aue  pM^  ^eoonlaliiA 
coDtlnue  the  treatment.     This  size  contains  one  1^  T«.tilQia.    ^m*o,  n. 

hundred  and  fifty  tablets  and  sells  for  one  dollar. 

Each  tablet  is  this  f^^flSfc  ^^^^  ^^^^^  *^  stamped  with  \k&  3^  ingulshlng 
mark  as  shown  In  the  ^~^^  eut.  Thla  mark  should  appea:  on  every 
tablet. 

Johnaon^s  Digestive  Tablets  are  for  eale  at  all  druggi^te. 

THE  BBUN8WICK  PHAEMACAL  CO.,  New  Brunswick,  N*  J.,  U.  S,  A. 


116 


AdveriisemetUs 


WOOD'S  FUMIGATORS 


Wood^s  Fumigatora  are  two-iuch  pyramids  en- 
casiDg  a  caadlo  of  formaldohyde,  miKed  with  a 
slow  burn  Lag  material.  To  set  one  of  these  In  a 
platSj  and  touch  the  tip  with  a  lighted  match,  is 
all  that  is  necessary  to  generate  a  gas  that  will 
thorougLhy  fumigate  a  small  room  or  closet  and 
drive  away  mosquitoes  and  other  insects-  Wood*s 
Fumlgators  are  now  used  by  physicians  to  burn  in 
their  clothes  closets  after  attending  contagions  dis- 
eases. On©  fumigator  left  burning  la  a  clothes 
closet  with  tlie  keyholes  and  cracks  sealed,  will 
penetrate  every  fiber  of  the  clothing  witli  the 
greatest  germicide,  formaldehyde  gas.  The  fumes 
of  formal d ell yde  are  easily  gotten  rid  of ;  a  few 
minutes  In  the  fresh  air  is  all  that  Is  ne<;eBsarj;  or 
it  may  be  done  by  vaporizing  a  little  ammoDia, 

Wood's  Fu  mi  gators  are  easy  to  operate;  will 
not  destroy  fabrica  or  csolors  and  are  cheap — price 
10  cents. 


■I 


WWi 


»*bat 


n^^ 


ijfhtil'^ 


Wood 'a  FumlfuCor 


LISTER'S   FUMIGATORS 

Lister's  Fumigator  is  a  formaldehyde  g 
generator.  It  is  not  a  complicatr^d  engine,  but 
a  simple  four-inch  box,  made  of  fire-proof  pap*?r 
and  perforated  tia,  contaluiaga  cautlie  of  sol- 
id liied  formaldehyde.  Just  touch  a  dghted 
match  to  the  fumigator,  close  the  windows  and 
doors,  and  the  work  of  exterminating  Insectal 
and  disease  germs  is  begun. 

Formaldehyde  gas  will  kill  mosquitoes  and 
other  insects. 

Formaldehyde  gas  is  the  most  deadly  en- 
emy to  all  disease  germs* 

Formaldehyde  ttas  Ib  easy  to  generate,  with 
the  Lister  Fumigator, 

Formaldehyde  gas  will  not  hamx  furniture, 
fine  fabrics  or  pictures. 
Lieter'a  YMmigfmit  ^r^^^  disinfecting  with  Lister^s  Fumigator,  it  is 

not  necessary  to  dtBtnrb  the  furniture,  except  to  spread  things  out,  in  order  that 
everything  be  disinfected. 

Lister's  Fumigators  are  the  beet,  easiest  to  operate  and  cheapest  dlsinfectatii) 
on  the  market. 

JOHNSON  &  JOHNSON,  New  Brunswick,  N.  J.,  U,  S.  A. 


Advertisements 


117 


^.^Uv^^joUow 


NEW  BRUNSWICK, HJ. 


Z0NA5  CORN  LEAF 

Sure  and  Painless  Corn  Cure 

To  Kemovb  a  Corn. — Apply  night  and  morning  for  three 
days.  Then  bathe  the  parts  in  warm  water  and  the  corn  will 
come  out. 


PERFECT 
MUSTARD 
PLASTER 


«« Mustard  Plasters  are  applicable  to  all  inflammations.  Four-fifths 
of  all  diseases  consist  in  or  comiuence  with  inflammation"  (Dr.  Laldlaw). 
No  matter  what  other  remedies  or  methods  may  be  used,  the  mustard 
plaster  will  always  be  a  valuable  aid. 

Home-made  mustard  plasters  are  sloppy,  troublesome  things,  a 
plague  and  a  muss;  do  poor  worlc  at  best.  Ck>mmon  mustard  soon 
spoils ;  so  do  many  kinds  of  mustard  plasters. 

The  best  made  anywhere,  by  any  one,  are  Johnson  &  Johnson's 
Perfect  Mustard  Piasters. 

They  are  made  of  mustard — nothing  else. 

JOHNSON  dt  JOHNSON,  New  Brunswick,  N.  J.,  U.  S.  A. 


Advertisements 


Z0NWEIS5 

A  Perfect  Dentifrice 

Jlajiy  dentifrices  are  placed  on  the  market 
that  are  injurious  to  the  teethe  either  Ihrougli 
chemical  aetlot;  or  too  great  abrasive  quality. 
With  a  thorougli  knowledge  of  the  neces>axy 
requlrementa,  we  offer  Zonweisg  as  an  attlfsle 
which  <^n  be  used  with  perfect  salely* 

It  ist  a  heavy  cream  or  paste,  put  up  in  col- 
lapstble  tubes.  It  is  detergent »  prophylactlo 
and  antiseptic.  Highly  flavored  It  imparts  a 
lasting  [ragninoe  to  the  breath  and  a  sens^  of 
cleanliness  to  the  mouth. 

Johnson  &  Johnson,  New  Brunswickp  N*  J, 


Pocket 
Dental  Floss 
Silk  .  . . 


If  you  use  our  Benta]  Floss  SOfc  you  will  get  rid  of  the  splmtara 
irblch  you  ^rt^t  by  using  wooden  roothpicks. 

But  this  is  not  all ;  it  doi>s  mor*&  to  pres^i^e  your  teeth  and  the 
fltllng  In  them  thau  any  other  on©  tiling  that  you  can  do  for  tholr 
core.  It  goe»  into  the  natroweet  epoeee  bettreea  the  teeth  &iid  re- 
tiioT©E»  parttclt^  of  decompotlllf  food,  whlth,  if  allowed  to  remain, 
ar©  the  starting  poldtfl  of  th6  genus  of  deeaj.  It  does  this 
thocou|:hty~  tooth  pick  £1  will  not    It's  a  pleasure  to  use  ft 

Johnson  ^  John^non^  New  Eninsmlck,  N*  J. 


Advertisement 


119 


RED  CROSS  ABSORBENT  COTTON 

There  are  many  kinds  of  absorbent  cotton  on  the  market, 
sold  in  drug  stores,  dry  goods  stores,  barber  shops,  and,  in 
fact,  in  all  sorts  of  places.  Many  kinds  of  (so-called)  absorbent 
cotton  are  not  suited  for  wound-dressing  purposes.  Very 
often  they  are  made  in  cotton  mills  of  waste  cotton;  are  filled 
with  dirt,  dust,  leaves,  etc.,  and  wholly  unsuited  for  wound- 
dressing  or  other  delicate  purposes. 

For  all  such  purposes,  as  well  as  for  wound-dressing,  it  is 
absolutely  necessary  that  the  cotton  should  be  pure;  that  is  to 
say,  free  from  all  chemicals,  dirt  or  foreign  materials  of  any 
nature.  In  the  largest  and  most  careful  chemical  or  other 
laboratories,  and  in  many  of  the  most  extensive  dairies,  Eed  Cross 
Absorbent  Cotton  is  preferred  for  the  uses  above  enumerated. 
Careful  surgeons  have  found  by  experience  that  our  absorbent 
cotton  is  absolutely  pure,  surgically  clean,  aseptic  and  alto- 
gether reliable  for  dressing  wounds. 

Bed  Cross  Absorbent  Cotton  is  put  up  in  a  blue  package; 
the  cotton  itself  is  rolled  in  blue  tissue,  and  upon  the  outside 
of  the  package  is  a  label,  a  conspicious  feature  of  which  is  the 
red  cross  trade-mark. 

JOHNSON    &    JOHNSON 

New  Brunswick,  N.  J.,  U.  5.  A. 


LANE  MEDICAL  LIBRARY 


To  avoid  fine,  this  book  should  be  returned 
on  or  before  the  date  last  stamped  below. 


1^:4^; 


riAY  J>8  19;  :4 


hUl       Kilmer, F, 
K4  a  J  olm  so  n  •  a  first  ail 

19CS  ^  jrmnual.        3d_ed,_ 


KAM£                                                   date  DU^^ 

2^ 

tP..  i  yd.^U^/^^ 

^^H 

WsM:i^^^ 

(WfT^^^W 

H 

'  H 

^ 

fl 

m 

^ 

_Jh 

^^1 

^^^H 

^^^H 

^^^^^H 

ji 

■ 

