Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



Boston 

Medical Library 

8 The Fenway 






^-'^■^0^. 



?»> 



v^, 



.^ 



<•■*»■ 



ji''lh 'ii 






■^ 
:•?',;• 






^1^ I 

'If 



i.-sj 









1^' 



'."^^.t^ 



'5rv..* 









"i-- 



r*:. 



. 



1/ 



\ 



I. 




13 T ASIPnc WIOI 



4 ASePTK SIIK 



+ STERILIZED* 


TAPE + 




s-ffmsr- 


} 


_> 




,/\ 


A 




1^-. 






ol 


inl 










^B 


^H 


^1 


>l 


s| 


ol 










B 


i 



RED CROS§ NOTES 



do^YRiQUT I9ia mr 



Johnson & Johmson 



Sekies VII. 






New BnciiswicK," N. J. 



NuMBEK One 



"^ 



RED CROSS NOTHtt.^ 



1-^ 



Published by Johnson & Johnson, New 
Brunswick, N. J., U. S. A. 

Fred B. Kilmer, Editor. 

This publication is issued from the 
laboratories of the publishers with the 
intent to give, in brief, items of interest 
and reports of original research along the 
line of the particular branches of the art 
in which they labor. 

The price of these issues is $1.00 per 
year. 

Persons receiving Red Cross Notes will 
confer a favor by notifying the publish- 
ers of any inaccuracy in the address on 
the wrapper, and of any change of their 
address. 

Original communications and sugges- 
tions along the Imes covered by this 
publication are always welcome. 

JOHNSON & JOHNSON. 
New Brunswick, N. J., U. S. A. 



CATGUT PROBLEMS. 

Catgut problems come and go in the 
daily tasks set before the workers in 
the Johnson & Johnson laboratories. 
The staff is without doubt well fitted 
for the study of catgut. The director 
(Mr. Kilmer) has since the re-intro- 
duction of catgut into surgery some 
twenty-five years ago, made a special 
study of the physical and chemical 
properties of this substance, and has 
given much time to the working out of 
the physiological processes involved in 
its absorption. His associate (Mr. 
Clark) has had the benefit of a long 
experience in the laboratories of the 
J. EUwood Lee Company, where he 
has worked upon problems of steriliz- 
ation, bacteriological tests and preser- 
vation. The laboratories are in 
direct association with several well 
equipped biological laboratories, and 
in addition have been aided by a corps 
of competent operators, who have ex- 
tended the work into the operating 
room and clinic. 

The rank and file of the operatives in 
these laboratories are those who, by 
long training, have learned one thing 
— catgut — and have learned it well. 



Altogether these workers supply suf- 
ficient catgut for more than two mill- 
ion operations every year. 

During the period falling within the 
range of these observers, an extended 
research has been made into the vol- 
uminous literature of catgut, investi- 
gations have been made as to the 
method of preparation of the raw gut 
in the abattoirs in foreign countries, 
from which supplies are principally de- 
rived. Every known and every sug- 
gested method has been worked out, 
and it is within the limit to say that 
from two hundred to two hundred and 
fifty separate processes have been 
practically demonstrated in the labora- 
tory. It is worthy of note, that not- 
withstanding the fact that no one topic 
has received more attention than that 
of the disinfection and preparation of 
catgut, none of the Infinite number of 
processes has been wholly satisfactory. 
Processes which produced sterile liga- 
tures tended to make them brittle; 
methods that did not make the strands 
tender left them infected. Finally, if 
by chance they were made sterile they 
were easily reinfected, so that no one 
operator or no one manufacturer was 
really furnishing absolutely aseptic 
ligatures. 

The difficulties to be overcome have 
been hardly realized, partly from the 
fact that few have conceived the na- 
ture of the material. Catgut, or the 
intestine of sheep, is a gelatinous sub- 
stance often infected at its original 
source with most resistant forms of 
germ life. This material is twisted 
into hard cords, and constitutes the 
ordinary raw catgut of commerce. Such 
a strand of material is impenetrable 
by most solutions, it is destroyed by 
heat, and is rotted by chemicals and 
substances used in wound disinfection. 
It is a jelly-like thing taking to itself 
moisture, and that in itself receives, 
holds and nourishes germ life, easy to 
infect, hard to disinfect. 



RED CROSS NOTES 



But out of this twenty-five years' 
work have come methods which, so far 
as sterilization alone is concerned, have 
reached toward perfection. 

In the consideration of the require- 
ments of catgut for use as a ligature 
and suture material, and in the work- 
ing out of methods for its sterilization, 
certain vital points are often ignored 
or overlooked. The conditions under 
which catgut is born in the living 
body without reaction and absorbed 
into it without a residue, are very com- 
plicated. 

The perfect sterilization of catgut, 
while of prime importance, does not 
suffice to fulfill the requirements for 
perfect absorption. An aseptic wound 
heals easily over an indifferent, chemi- 
cally inactive foreign body — for in- 
stance, silk — but a string of catgut im- 
bedded in a wound tissue presents 
other and greater problems. It is to 
be absorbed slowly. As soon as it is 
implanted In a wound there begins a 
series of chemical and physiological 
processes which need special study. 
There is in this instance a transplanta- 
tion of tissue of a different kind, or 
more nearly the blocking of a tract 
with a dead material — the implanting 
of a chemically different material into 
living animal tissue. 

Problems in the use of heteroplas- 
tics, problems involving chemotaxis 
and the action of living processes upon 
dead organic compounds at once arise. 
Catgut • is non-absorbable unless it is 
first broken down into compounds that 
are less complex, absorbable and as- 
similable. Further than this, sterile 
catgut is a gelatinous material, and 
in wound tissues is at once a nidus 
for germ collection and growth. Thia 
latter statement of fact is important, 
as is also the statement of an eminent 
operator to the effect that every surgi- 
cal operation is a study in biology and 
bacteriology, and the further demon- 
strated truth that pathogenic bacteria 
are to .be found in the most carefu'ly 
prepared wound surface. 

Herein is presented a discussion of 
some of the problems involved in the 
preparation of catgut. Others remain 
to be solved. 

^^4, 



Write for a "Hand Book of I^iga- 
tures." 



READ THE COVER. 

The cover of this issue of Red 
Cross Notes tells an interesting story 
quite Independent of. the contents. On 
the front page, catgut from start to 
finish is graphically pictured. 

The upper figure shows the intestines 
of sheep, emptied of their contents, 
cleansed, disinfected, and wound upon 
a glass spindle, preparatory to split- 
ting. 

In the figure next below, a tube of 
cleansed, and disinfected intes- 
tine is shown stretched over a glass 
rod and split, preparatory to being 
twisted into strands. 

The figure which follows shows the 
strands of split tissue twisted together 
and gathered into a coil. Following 
this is a sealed tube containing cat- 
gut wound upon a glass rod, covered 
with protective fiuid. 

At the bottom of the page the bac- 
teriological tests are portrayed. On the 
left is a tube, stoppered with cotton, 
containing nutrient bouillon. In the 
bouillon appears a strand of sterile cat- 
gut. The nutrient bouillon remain- 
ing clear is the test for sterility. An in- 
fected strand is shown in a second 
tube. In this tube the bouillon has be- 
come cloudy and is covered with 
growth. 

The back cover exhibits the peculiar 
feature of Zonas Catgut, and illus- 
trates a most striking test. On this 
page is pictured a plate of nutrient 
agar jelly, infected with staphylococcus 
pyogenes aureus. Bacterial colonies can 
be seen growing around the strand of 
plain sterile catgut which has been im- 
bedded therein. Strands of Zonas Cat- 
gut are surrounded by a clear zone, 
strikingly demonstrating the fact that 
organisms cannot grow in the presence 
of Zonas Catgut. 

On the interior pages the various 
forms of catgut ligatures in Envelopes, 
Breakable Tubes, Emergency Tubes 
and Tark Packages, are shown. 

Hand Book of Ligatures, a hand- 
somely illustrated book of forty pages, 
describing methods of preparing liga- 
tures their sizes, styles of packing, 
tests, etc. Sent on request. 

Write for a sample of Red Cross 
Catgut- 



RBD CROSS NOTES. 



CATGUT ABSORPTION 

(Contribution trom the Scientific Deparimenl of Johneon & Johnson.) 

STNOFSia. 

The problem of the atMorpttoD o( catgut In wound tissue Is but little under< 

Previous research work li ' 

Report ol an extended s< _. __., _ 

3 involved In the absorption of a catgut strand. 



Reproduction of microscopic eectloi 
dergolng dissolution and resorption. 

The resorption ot catgut with an attempt to explain the 
.J .1 1. .. ...g leukocytes therein 



and the r 



showing strands of catgut un- 
Involved 



The problem of the absorption of cat- 
gut Is dally before the workers In our 
laboratory. In our correspondence with 
surgeons, embracing as it does many 
thousand operators in all parts of the 
world, we And that the problem la one 
which Is also constantly In evidence 
In their work. While the literature In 



pressed for a form or variety of c 
ot which it can be said that a c{ 
size will, when imbedded In th« 
i>ues, be absorbed without any ext 



respect to catgut absorption la eitraor- 
dlnarlty large, positive Information aa 
to the mode of absorption of catftut 
and the phenomena presented when a 
strand is imbedded In the tissue under 
normal' conditions. Is very meager. 

The views ot suraeons are greatly 
varied, and there la often a demand for 
extraordinary or Impossible results. 



Rabbit I— Secdcn of Perltcneum X 52. 
Ligature (2> Imbedded In a mass of ieu- 
kocylea, mostly of the lymphocyte type 
(Ij, Intermixed with polymorphonurlear 
leukocytes. Ligature has unwound and 
opened into strands, the interafltlal 
space.s of which hav*. more or leaa infll- 
iraed with leukocytes. In places shows 
decided signs of Ihe solvent action of the 
surrounding cells and body fluids. 

strain of joining two apposing muscu- 
lar tissues until the openlnR has united 
Eufflciently to no longer need the aid 
of suture, and that then the strand o( 
catgut shall disappear. One writer 
tells of an Ideal strand ot catgut In an 
Ideal wound which, after serving Its 



purpose of boldingr the tissues together 
until firm union has taken place, "ta 
silently and perfectly removed by the 
activity of the Uvlng cells In the pa- 
tient's body." Another entlkusLastlcally 
speaks of a suture which at the end of 
a given time Is absorbed and dlsap- 






5 the 



ot this character, 

sed upon experl- 

;. Positive experimental 

■y meagre and for the 



however, ar 
mental evidi 
evidence is 
most part unsatisfactory. 

Our research department has there- 
fore made some notable conttl- 
butlons to the question of cat- 
gut and its absorption, prin- 



Thla series led to the conclusion tbat 
the terms ten. twenty and thirty day 
catgut as applied to the hardened ma- 
teria] oould not be taken literally. It 
also demonstrated that catgut could be 
prepared by hardening the ribbon of 
intestinal tissue before twisting It, and 
that this process would produce a 
strand more uniformly hardened and 
with a more nearly definite time of ab- 
sorption than is produced by any 
method whereby the hardening agent 
is applied after the atrand has been 
twisted. 

These experiments demonstrated that 
catgut cannot be prepared, the time of 
absorption of which may be stated In 



Rabbit II— Section ot Muscle X 145. 
Ligature (2} opened Into strands, the In- 
terstitial spaces heavily Infiltrated with 



polymorptionuclea 






orptioti Indicated by the frayed 



the 






the 



cipally confined to experiments upon 
animals, and carried out with a view 
to ascertain the time required tor the 
absorption of hardened or chromlclzed 
catgut. In one of these contributions 
(see Red Cross Notes. Series V. page 
256) Itwas shown that guinea pigs vary 
greatly in their power to absorb buried 
catgut autures, either plain or hard- 
ened. In a further contribution (see 
Red Cross Notes, Series Vi. page 219) 
there was reported an elaborate series 
of experiments upon dogs and rabbits, 
wherein plain and hardened catgut was 
imbedded in abdominal and muscular 
Ussues of both dogs and rebblta. 



Rabbit II— Section of Peritoneum X B8. 
Ligature (2) Imbedded In a mass of lym- 
phocytes. Intermixed with a few poly- 
morphonuclear leukocytes (1). The lig- 
ature has opened Into strands, the Inter- 
.tlttlfll spaces of which are infiltrated 
with leukocytes. 

days or hours, but that a product could 
be made In which a given size In com- 
parison with plain catgut of the same 
size, could be said to he of medium 
hardness, and another grade which 
might be said to be extra hard- 

In the foregoing series the mode of 
.absorption and the pher 
nection therewith were n 
Physiological Processes in Catgut Ab- 

With a view of obtaining some defi- 
nite information upon the physiological 
process of absorption of catgut, a series 
of experiments were undertaken sub- 
stantially as follows: 



t recorded. 



RKU CROSS NOTES 



Strands of plain aterile cattjut, iiLiout 

X inches in length, were imbedded in 

Lhe peritonea! cavity of rabbi ta under 

septic conditlona. The effect of the 

mbedding in the tissue waa noted, and 

after a period varying from five days 

onward the rabbits were killed, the 

strand of catgut removed, sectiona be- 

ng mad© for microscopic atudy, and 

e extent and mode of absorption ob- 

rved. Likewise a piece of plain cat- 

t one-half to one inch in length was 

.bedded In the muscles of the thigh 

of the animals, and the effect noted. 

"pon liilling the animal the catgut was 



lonnective tissue. This procei* la 
Rome times exceedingly alow. 

The notes taken during these pxperl- 
menta were as follows: 

Rabbit No. I. Killed fith day. 

Muscle — Area around the ligature 
slightly hyperaemlc. The ligature ap- 
peared as a white mass through the mus- 

MioroHcopIc examination allowed the lig- 
ature to be imbeJiJed in a mass of cell^. 

Peritoneum.— The ligature Is adherent 
to the large intestine and operation 
wound. The ligature Is soft and swollen 
and la covered with a white exudate. On 
cutting the ligature the interior appears 
tough and ri * " 



Rabbit No II Killed a 



)\ed and sect ons pretarf 1 f r m 

The actual phenomenon of a I sorp 
tion s shmn I these experiments la 
ier\ ilfferent from the hist r of the 
imaginary ideal 1 gature mentioned be 
fore It is seen that citgut ibsorp 
tion 3 ^er\ gradual 

There la first a disintegration of the 
strand shonn chiefly I \ 1 oseness an 1 
untwisting This finally reaches i 
Etage at which there is present onlj a 
soft pulp) mater al of no holding 
power At this pf nt the ligature or 
suture ceases t haie \alue as such 
After thio the p eces of disintegrated 
catgut He in the tlss es for a number 
of days Eraduall being replaced bi 



oil en 



Peritoneum The ligature lies free In 
the abdominal cavity but Is surrounded bj- 

lite deposit It Ii Mft an 1 swollen, but 
the Interior la still tough No bacteria 
nere found In the cellular leposit on the 
ligature 

Rabbit No ni Killed Bfter seven days. 

Muscle Tlere is slight congestion 
sro nd the ligature The ligature is swol- 
en and surrounded b> a nhlte deposit. 

Peritoneum —The ligature is adherent 
t tl smdil i[ lesi nr n 1 there is a sllghi 
Inftammatorv reaction at point of adher- 



RED CROaS NOTES 



the ligature. The llgatur. . 
and surrounded by a white de- 
Cultures made from Bcraplnga 



Microscopic e.. 

any trace ol the ligature In the w '■"■■ 
preserved for study. 

Peritoneum.— The ligature Is adherent 
to the posterior abdominal wall. A tew 
small hemorrhagic foci are seen at and 
near the points of attachment. Cultures 
Bhow no bacteria. 



hyperaeinla at the point of attachment. 
Cultures made (rom the ligature remained 
sterile. 



.Rabbit No. vn. Killed a 

Muscle.— The ligature la 

surrounded by a while dep 



swollen and 



Rabbit IV— Section of Peritoneum X S2. 
Ligature (2} has not been very much act- 
ed upon. It 13 surrounded on both sides 
by a deposit of lymphocytes Intermixed 
— — - - '--g polymorphonuc' '- " 



Rabbit V— Section of Peritoneum X 200, 
Ligature (2) disintegrated, strands Im- 
bedded tn a dense masa ot leukocytes 
mostly of the lymphocyte type (1). The 
outer edges of the cell deposit show areas 
of well organized newly-formed connec- 



Rabblt V. Killed after eight day^. 

Muscle.— There Is alight congestion 
around the ligature. The ligature ia soft 
and surroundtd by a white deposit. 

Microscopic examination shows the lig- 
ature to be surrounded and Infiltrated by 



rough some portions of the infiltrated 
area are large phagocytic cells that ap- 
pear to have taken up fragments of the 
smaller cells. There Is also evidence of 
the beginning of an Infiltration of connec- 
tive tissue cells, especially along the bor- 

Peritoneum,— The ligature is slightly 
adherent to the uterus and the smalt In- 
testine. There Is slight hyperaemia 



the points of 



Rabbit No, VI. Killed after nlne'days. 

Muscle. — The ligature is not visible. It 
may have slipped out of the position- In 
the muscle where It had been deposited. 



—The ligature Is slightly 
he abdominal wall and th>- 
of the bladder. Cultures 






The ligature Is 



Muscle.— The wound has completely 
healed. The ligature la aurrounded by a 
mass of cells. 

Peritoneum.— The ligature la adherent 
to the abuomlnal wail. It Is swollen but 
stilt retains considerable resistance to 
tension. It is imbedded In flbrous tissue 
and surrounded by a relatively large mass 



Rabbit IX. Died after fourteen days. 

Muacle. — Ligature seems to be partly 
absorbed. The wound has healed. 

Peritoneum.— The ligature Is adherent 
to the anterior wall ot the bladder and Is 
partly Imbedded In nbroul tissue, 



RED CROSS NOTES 



— The wounrj has healed. The 
ligature has apparently been absorbed. 

Microscopic examination falls to show 
any trace of the ligature In the portion 
of muscle preservetl for sludy. There la 
an area of apparently newly-foimeu con- 
nective tissue which may mark the horder 
of the location where the muscle had been 



lund repair and wound 



Inflammatloi; 
healing. 

Taking advantage of the knowledge 
which has been developed by research 
In cellular pathology, and aasuming for 
the purpose ot explanation the correct- 
ness of the theories propounded, we 
ofter the (ollowlng as a plausible In- 
sight as to what may have happened — - 



1 the c 



ted— 






have become disintegrated except a single 

Microscopic examination shows what 
appears to be a few shreds of the ligature 
imbedded In a mass of mononuclear cells. 



; was Imbedded In 
ie flesh tissues of certain rabbits. 
If a surgically, clean knife or needle 
I passed into the tissues of a living 



Rabbit VI— Section of Pe 

Ligature ( ) has not opened Into strands 
but is lurrounied b\ a dense naas of 
Ivmphocytes 



(1) Some Infiltration be 

-.rands On sides o( the cell 

deposit newly tor 



connective tlsa 



The Resorption of i,atgut 

In anv attemrt to explain what 
happens nhen a strand of catgut is 
sewn into linns' f^ah we are beset 
with dilMcultles Observ atlons can 
be made at intervals onl> The naked 
eye gives little or no indication of the 
process Microscopic examinationa 
can only be made after remo\-jl ot a 
section of the tissue It would be im 
possible to establish any continuous 
study because the process extends 
through da\s ei en Into weeks of time 
No two animils especiallj no two rab 
blto react alike hence work cannot 
be exact 'y duplicated 

The processes are highly complex 
involving the whole range of ln]ur> — 



Rabbit MI 'Section of Peritoneum X 
100 Ligature (') opened into strands 
Interst 1 al spacfs Infiltrated with leukc 
cytes of the lymphocyte type Inte mixed 
with polymorphonuclear leukocytes tl) 

animal fthe tissues themselves having 
also been rendered aseptic) proildlng 
no lirge vessel be injured repair will 
take place rap dh — union by first in 
tention In such a ase the pre exist 
ing cells of the injured tissue di their 
work with a reaction so slight as to 
scarcely be observable Such a ae 
quence o( events occurs when the In 
jury to the tissue la of the mildest 
form and when the events which fo low 
are normal are of common occurrence 
in modern surgery If however an 
aseptic needle carrying an aaepti 
thread of silk linen or like material 
should be passed int and throjgh 
the thing tissue and a portion of th*- 
thiead be allowed to remain imbedled 
In the tissue we have introduced a 
foreign bodv that must be cared for 



BED CROSS NOTES 



It is a very common observation that 
an aseptic piece of iilk or like mate- 
rial becomes encysted without note- 
worthy reaction and remains indefi- 
nitely in this condition, the tissues 
walling ofF the foreie:n body until the 
Injury has been repaired by new ceils. 

One of our sCalt (Mr. Kilmer), in obser- 
vations made on the introduction of tor- 
eign Bubstancea into the body ol the lower 
type or organlams. such as sponges, Jelly 



quired length of time and then be re- 
moved through agencies within the 
tissues themselves. It is a substance 
susceptible o( disintegration and dis- 
solution — It is an absorbable body— a 
food substance, and as such is dis- 
solved, digested and assimilated by the 
cells of the injured body. 

Thus in the aeries here cited we have 
a picture of strands of catgut place*! 
in the peritoneal cavity o( rabbits, or 



Rabbit VIII— Section of Muicle X 1 
Few remaining stranda of ligature 
Imbedded In a dense masa of Ijpml 
cytes Inlermlxpd with a few polym 
phonuolear leultocytes (1) 



charcoal were implanted they 
were thrown out or else were at once sur- 
rounded bv a vl-fCouH plasmodlal ii^aas. 



naae the injury rapidly healed When, 
however auch a substance consisted of a 
portion of flesh the particle was surround- 
ed by plasmodle celi'i. and In the course of 



ing. 

In the case of fmplanttnR a cord of 
catgut Into animal tissue, we have 
introduced new elements. Catgut is 
an animal substance — collagen (orgran- 
i7.ed selatlne): Implanted within the 
lisBue and left to Itself would decompose 
and become an irritant. The intention of 
introducing such a substance by the 
surgeon Is that it shall perform its 
office as a ligature or suture tor a re- 



. itial spaces of 

nhioh have become infiltrated with lym- 
phocytes (1). surrounding the ligature Is 
an area of newly-formed connective tla- 

burled in muEcular tissue, which upon 
examination after live days are found 
to be surrounded b\ a dense white 
deposit, and this appearance ia marlted 
until after the fourteenth day after 
which there is a gradual absorption of 
the deposit as the ligature itself dlaap- 

On sectioning the tissues containing 
the strands of catgut there is seen after 
five or six days a beginning of the 
process of disintegration; the ligature 
untwists and the interspaces fill up 
with a cellular Infiltrate, consisting of 
small mononuclear and some polymor- 
phonuclear leuhocytes. 

As the process proceeds the edges 
of the ligatures show evidence of solu- 
tion, and the cells infiltrate in between 
the separating strands. These strands 
gradually dissolve, and In the later 
stages disappear entirely. 



RBU CROSS : 



After varying periods (generally 
fourteen days) there Is considerable 
evidence of the reparative proceasep 
which follow; the exterior of the liga- 
ture la covered by newly formed con- 
nective tissue, and the connective tla- 
sue cells begin to penetrate Into the 
interior of the mass. 



at rands of the disintegrated lisatuie 
and of the dead cells, as these bodies 
seem to be loaded up with foreign mn- 
terlals. 

After the liKa.lure is iliaaoived the 
process appears lu run a course paral 
lei with that of ordinary tissue repair, 
and the whole area occupied by thi^ 



Rabbit IX— Section ot Muscle X 100. 
Moderate disintegration of the ligature 
into strands (S), which are separated In 
places by an infiltration of lymphocytes 
{1), and connective tissue cells (3). 

The polymorphonuclear cella aeem 
to disappear after periods varying 
from the seventh to the tenth day, 
leaving the mononuclear cells to con- 
tinue the process. About the four- 
teenth day large mononuclear phago- 
cytic cella seem to have Invaded the 
masa, and these are no douht instru- 
mental In removing the remains of thP 



Rabbit rX— Section of Peritoneum X 52. 
Marked disintegration of the ligature (2i 
into strands. Interstitial spaces heavily 
Inflltrated with lymphocytes and poly- 
morphonuclear leukocytes (1). and to some 
extent with connective tissue cells (3). 



ligature 

formed t 

The di 



lally replaced by i 



wly 



?gratlon of the ligature it- 
self seems to be brought about by di- 
gestive ferments which are either 
brought to the place in the blood 
stream, or, what ia more probable, by 
ferments generated l>y the Infiltrating 



Hand Book ot L.lgatures. a hand- 
somely Illustrated book of forty pages- 
describing methods ot preparing liga- 
tures, sizes, styles of packing, testa, 
<-ti-. Sent free on request. 

Watery solutions and all astringent 
chemicals, such as tannin, mercuric 
clorlde. chromic acid, alum, etc., ren- 
der catgut brittle and weak. 



Ligatures were used for tying the 
blood vessels In the fourth century. 
Pare introduced this method In the 
16th cenOiry. Physic, 1814, was the 
first to demonstrate the practical ad- 
vantages of the animal ligature; he 
used chamois leather. Sir Astley Coo- 
per, 1817, was the first to suggest vio- 
lin strings. 

Sir 



I ot Red Cross 



RB1> CROSS NOTES 



PREPARATION UF SURGICAL CATGUT 



a collect B 



drat ham 



I In relation to the prepaiatlun uf cat 
special representative who visited tl 
-' ' knowledge ol the condition 



tolrs I 



The commercial preparation of the 
intestines of animals, otherwise known 
us catgut. U an Industry very largely 
tonfined to the continent of Europe. 
Scattered over Italy, t'rance and Ger- 
many, with only a few In Great Brit- 
uin, are smail places devoted to this 
ivorit These are clasBed as among 
the disagreeable manufactures or nui- 
::ances, and by the authorities and by 
lesidentaln the vicinity are considered 
more objectionable than the fertilizer- 
factories In our own country. Gener- 
ally they are entirely separate and dis- 
tinct from the slaughter houses. In 
some Instances the slaughter houses 



tractor. In whose hands the subsequent 
manipulations are carried oul. 

The prevailing conditions are cer- 
tainly not those usually surrounding 
the preparation of surgical material. 
For the most part the preparation oi 
strings tor surgical use Is of second- 
ary Importance, the greater attention 
being paid to the preparation of sau- 
sage casings, racket and bow strings, 
musical Etrlnga, whip cords, clock 
weight cords, etc.. and In some in- 
stances It was noted that strings un 
suitable for commercial purposes wer'' 
culled out and sold for surgical catgut. 
In scarcely any of the places visited 



ration showing port lor 
disinfected and tw 



are notable for their cleanliness, and 
the scientific methods employed there- 
in. In certain localities It seems to be 
the rule that in order to bring up the 
standard of the slaughter house, the 
handling of the visceral contents Is 
avoided, and they are removed to 
points remote from sanitary super- 
vision. In the most acceptable abattoirs 
the Intestinal contents are thrown Into 
tubs or barrels and carried to the su- 
burbs, here to be turned over to a con- 



was there a eemblance of order or 
cleanliness. Universally there was a 
lack of light and air, and a notable 
absence of a plentiful supply of water. 
Excretions. Hies, dirt, stagnation and 
filth v.'ere everywhere. In many placen 
visited by our lepresentatlve the spec- 
tacle presented and the Impression re~ 
ceived were indescribab'.e, the sights 
nauseating and. as one observer noted, 
"the smells were abominable." 



J CROSS NOTES 



11 



The Intestines are handled by meth- 
ods which seem very crude, unsanitary 
am' unclean. Generally the Intestines 
are dumped upon dirty floors or wood- 
en pla.tforms, sometlmea received in 
tubs or barrels whlcli apparently were 
never clean nor could they be cleaned. 
Blood and olfal blocked the sewers and 
operatives In wooden Boied sabbatona 
were wading in the oozing fllth. In 
soms instances it was found to be the 
practice to aMow the intestines, still 
holding their contents, to rerraenl for 
some days. It was staled that this 
process made them more easily 
Scraped, and that the final product was 
more soft and supple. 

The smaller slaughter houses supply 
a considerable amount of materiai. In 



other than Johnson & Johnson and 

>he J. Blwood Lee Comijany. Those 
malcerB who supply and manipulate 
the material purchase the Imported 
strings. The factories in this country 
where animal intestines are handled 
devote their attention to the making 
of sausage covers, tennis strings and 
the like, this for the reason that the 
making of such articles Is the more 
profitable. It Is also true ttiat in order 
to supply the demand it is necessary 
to Import a large amount ot the crude 
dried tnteatines. 



The Xev 



■ Processes. 



We have entirely reversed these 
slaughter house procedures. Under the 
methods of animal Inspection now In 



in showing a portion of 

andlLngrt raw catgut ai 

ages preparatory to ! 



these places the intestines are emptied 
of their contents, scantily washed, a 
small amount ot water being used for 
:v large amount of material. They are 
then dried and sold to the maker ot 
KUt products, who in turn apportions 
it out to families who soak out 
and dry the material and then 
twist it, as a home industry. At 
every step there seems to be 
ample opportunity for putrefaction and 
for infection of many sorts. 

In the United States there are prac- 
tically no makers of surgical catgut 



vogue in this country we have little 
difficulty In procuring tissues from 
healthy animals, or at least those which 

or other organisms of grave lesions. 
We are also succeeding in s?curini! 
materials from animals which as a 
rule give a desirable product. We find 
that in the older animals the tissues 
are thicker, larger and darker in color. 
There are other variations which are 
apparently dependent upon the breed 
of the animal, the method by which It 
has been fed and handled, and still 



a 



RED CROSS NOTES 



other TactorH, the nature of which are 
not ettDgeth«r determined, which af- 
fect the color, strength and pliability 
cf the [issues. 

tn our work Immediately upon the 
rtmoval o( the InteBtinea they are 
placed in troughs of atone or slate. 
Hushed with hot and cold water. Here 
the greater portion of the Intestinal 
contents, blood and foreign matter, are 
washed away, the troughs are drained 
and the fat and organs are removed. 
The large Intestlnea, the stomach, etc.. 
are separated from the smaller ones; 
the small intestines which we use are 
then placed in a trough or vat con- 
taining a disinfectant and at this point 
begins the true work of cleansing and 
disinfection. From here on for days, 
at times for a week or more, the In- 



ilie object o( which is to loosen and 
scrape away the spongy villi layers. 
F\irther manipulation consists in the 
so-called splitting of the gut. Take a 
piece of rubber tubing and with a 
knife or shears split It so that it is in 
two halves; this will give an accurate 
representation of the process, except 
that It la done by special machinery, 
whereby the material is stretched, as 
for example over a rod, and an upright 
knife does the splitting, the material 
passing from the solution to the ma- 
chine and being delivered Into another 
solution at the completion of the 
process. The process of splitting 
is Illustrated on the front page 
of the cover of this Issue. 
The scraping process follows the 
splitting process upon the split gut. 



portion of the catgut sterilization r 



testlnes are being continually washed 
in disinfecting and cleansing solu- 

The process, in brief, consists of 
passing the Intestinal tubes from one 
vat to another. The material is con- 
tinuously flushed, squeezed through 
rollers and washed, emerging from the 
process in the shape of strings about 
sixty feet tn length. (The nature of 
this string la somewhat graphically 
illustrated upon the reel shown on the 
front cover of this issue). 

During these processes the material 
i» passed through a series of rollers, 



as it precedes It upon the whole gut. 
It consists In drawing the gut repeat- 
edly against the dull edges by the 
means of rollers. This weakens and 
removes the mucous layers, in a meas- 
ure scrapes them off, and has a tend- 
ency to make the material pliable, 
transparent, smooth, and of equal 
thickness. Upon the thoroughness of 
this process depends the texture and 
strength of the flnlshed strand, and it 
necessarily Includes repeated washings, 
flushings and final removal of all chem- 
icals. 



RED CROSS NOTES 



13 



LD Q\\r. VfOTk at the completion ol thiE 
process the gut is placed in Jars con- 
tainingr an antiseptic solution and sent 
to the twisting laboratory. 

The next stage is that of twisting. 
The smaller size guts are made by 
simply twisting one strand of the tis- 
sue material, the larger sizes by two- 
ply, three-ply, etc., but the sizes fur- 
ther depend upon the thickness of the 
tissue. Hence the sizing at the time 
of twisting is only approximate, ana 
they are carefully re-sized. The proc- 
ess of twisting or torsion is self-ex- 
planatory. To simply twist any loose 
cord illustrates the process. Twist- 
ing can be performed with the fingers, 
or with an apparatus, one end being 
held while the other end is rotated. 

The room in which this -twisting is 
done is shown on page ten of 
this issue. Here the twisting is be- 
ing done on the center table, 
and the catgut is shown in va- 
rious portions of the room in jars. 
After twisting a peg is slipped through 
a loop at each end and it is dried, as 
shown in the illustration. During this 
drying it is rubbed down, smoothed 
and polished. 

The above processes may be sum- 
marized by stating that they consist 
essentially of a continuous disinfect- 
ing and washing of the loose untwist- 
ed string. In such processes the in- 
troduction of putrefactive material 
which obtains in the usual slaughter 
house processes is prevented, if present 
we remove these products. An import- 
ant point is to prevent decay. In 
the usual method of manufacturing 
these strings they are allowed to fer- 
ment for four or five days in order that 
the splitting, scraping, may be more 
easily performed. On the other hand, 
it may be noted that our catgut is 
somewhat stiffer, for the very reason 
that we do not allow this fermenta- 
tion which, while it might increase the 
pliability, would also increase the 
growth of organisms and other prod- 
ucts. 

The catgut is next sized and tested 
for tensile strength, which processes 
are elsewhere described. It is then 
packed in containers such as tubes, 
tanks or bottles, or made into coils for 
the so-called raw gut. If it is to be 
impregnated with antiseptics or 



chromicized, this is done before the 
twisting. The process of chromiciz- 
ing is explained in the "Hand Book of 
Liigatures," and elsewhere in this issue. 

Sterilization of Catgut. 

It is obvious that the problem of the 
sterilization of catgut presents a dif- 
ferent aspect when applied to material 
produced under the methods described 
elsewhere, than when sterilization is 
attempted with the twisted cord, or the 
catgut of commerce. In the finished 
ligature prepared by the newer proc- 
esses herein described the outcome is 
a cord made up of healthy, normal, 
animal tissue. The ordinary infection 
if present, is removed. Putrid mate- 
rial common under the ordinary meth- 
od is eliminated. In fact, infection is 
confined to the surface of the cord or 
such as may arise^ in its handling after 
twisting. At the time of torsion the 
strands are practically aseptic. There 
only remains, therefore, a final re- 
sterilization after the packing of the 
catgut within its container. 

In these laboratories this re-steril- 
ization is carried out under various 
methods, according to the style of 
package, as, for example, envelopes, 
glass tubes, tank packages, etc. The 
sterilization is carried out within the 
sealed containers, which containers 
protect the ligatures from subsequent 
contamination until they are opened 
by the surgeon. 

The following processes have been 
employed: 

Alcohol — Boiling under pressure, 240 
to 255 degrees, carried out in an auto- 
clav. 

Thermol. sterilization by cumol — 
Boiling in cumol at a temperature of 
320 to 340 degrees Fahrenheit. 

Mixed Methods — The use of chemi- 
cals, disinfectants and heat combined 
or successively, e. g., mercuric salts, 
cresols, carbolic acid, formalin, perox- 
ide of hydrogen, etc. 

After such re-sterilization process 
the strands are subjected to bacterio- 
logical check tests, as elsewhere de- 
scribed. 



Hand Book of Ligatures, a hand- 
somely illustrated book of forty pages, 
describing methods of preparing liga- 
tures, sizes, s. ies of packing, tests, 
etc. Sent free on request. 



RED CROSS NOTES 



BACTERIOLOGICAL TESTS FOR 
OUR LIGATURES. 

An important feature of the prepara- 
tion of ligatures In the laboratories of 
Johnson & Johnson and the J. Ellwood 
Lee Company is the check-test made 
by the bacteriological department. 

In the case of sealed tubes and en- 
velopes a bacteriological test Is made 
of each lot sent to the stock room, the 
test is recorded and Its serial number 
placed on the label of each package, 
thus making it poaalble for the buyer 
or the iurgeon to refer to the actual 
culture test from the lot which is be- 



These tests are supplemented from 
time to time by microscopical exami- 
nations and other methods of proced- 
ure. A simple but complete system 



iaftwn.*itAw^^^^, 



has been worked out to Insure accu- 
racy. The tests go above and beyond 
surgical requirements. 

Among the several hundred known 
species of bacteria only a few are ca- 
pable of producing wound infection. 
The teata here enumerated eliminate 



Tube eonlalnlng nutrient bouillon into 
which a straniJ t catgut has bi'on piacPl 
for testing 

Ing used In addition to this regular 
test, control tests are made from time 



lallj , 



follow 



Each batch of ligatures as finished 
is sent to the taboraton From this 
batch a certain numl>er of samples Is 
taken and under proper aseptic pre- 
cautions the package is opened the 
ligature strand remoied fnra its con 
tainer n ith sterile forceps and dropped 
into a tube of prepared sterile nutrient 
bouillon This is subjected to proper 
temperature for at least ore neek and 
If at the end of that time no growth 
has taken place that fact Is considered 
as conclusive proof that the whole 
batch is sterile and the package Is 
labelled with a labe' » milar to that 
shown in the cut htrewlth 



all bacteria both in preparing the lig- 
ature'? and in handling: them In the 
testing laboratory. 

The bacteriological check- tests of 
these ligatures run Into many thou- 
sand A sample page of the records is 
here shown These bacteriological 
te^ls are the most perfect means which 
could be devised to verify the efficiency 
of the sterilization process, and each 
Is a guarantee of the perfection of the 
sterilization 



RED CROSS NOTES 



TENSILE STRENQTH OF LJGA- 
TURES. 
In the caae of catgut, the lenatlp 
strength is often an element for dla- 
cuaslon, but Job n son & Johnson and J. 
Elwood I,ee Co. make uae oC (eating 
machines tor this purpoae. so that 
there ia no gueas worlt about it. Cat- 
gut is sometimes returned to the la- 
boratory reported to be defective in 
streoEth, and when actually tested Is 



Concerning silk ligature material not 
much trouble is ever experienced by 
■he surgeon, becauae silk is actually 
much stronger than catgut and also be- 
cauae it la not so easily harmed by 
careless or severe treatment, or any of 
the other Inlluencea which, are known 
to affect catgut with auch destructive 
results. There is, however, a complete 
set of standards for both our Twisted 
and Braided ailk ligatures, statement o( 
which follows: 

a FOR 



ing Strengtli of Catgut 



found to be up to the atandard. 

machine aimply registera 1 

of pounds necessary to break catgut or 

ailk. 

Most complaints about strength of 
catgut are due to the fact that the sur- 
geon has had trouble from the catgut 
breaking at the knot, which is gener- 
ally caused by tying with a jerk, as 
catgut can always be broken oft at a 
knot in that way. 

In these laboratories atrands from 
every coil are carefully tested for ten- 
sile strength, and no catgut ia uaed 
which does not stand the required 
number of pounds. Generally, how- 
ever, our catgut runa very much above 
the standard In use, but the standard 
adopted has been in our experience a 
fair average of what should be expect- 
ed of a good quality catgut. 



LIGATURE SIZES, 
In order to bring about uniformity 
of measurement, Johnson and Johnson 
and J. Ell wood Lee Co. have adopted 
a rational scale for catgut. This scale 
is based upon thousandths of an inch, 
each size being three -thousandths in- 
crease over the next smaller one. 

CATGUT SIZE SCALE. 
No. Thousandths No. Thouaandtha 



la gauging catgut theae 



RED CROSS NUTKS 
ixea are ad- WHITE BRAIDED »ILK. 



The ordinary aizea mostly In demand 
and generally known as fine, medium 
and coarse, are Noa. 5, 8 and 12 Twist- 
ed Silk, aod Nob. 4, T and ID Braided 



lior 



oided l> 



Ividual strands vary considerably 
In different parts. 

The sizes of sillt ligature are not so 
easily standardized and the scale In use 
Lonforms in general to the commercial 



Braided Silk Sizes. 



Silk. These Sizes ar 
orders where sizes a 
where fine, medium 
specified. 



standara oC the siili market, in which 
the size is estimated by the number of 
yards p:r ounce. The sizes in use run 
from No. 1, the finest, to No. 20, the 
coarsest. We give the approximate 
yardage as follows; 

WHITE TWISTED SILK. 



CATGUT NOTES. 

It la supposed that the ancient mak- 
ers of violin strings used feline Intee- 
tlnea, hence the name catgut. In an- 
cient Rome violin strings were made 
from the intestines of the Itona and 
tigera who died In the arena. 

Again, catgut Is supposed to have 
been originally "kltgut" or "kitstring," 
kit meaning a fiddle. 

Modern catgut Is In reality sheep's 









Animal tissue sutures were used by 
Albucasla 100 A. D. 

Anthrax has been communicated to 
men through infected catgut. 

The first truly aseptic catgut liga- 
tures ever placed upon the market 
were the Red Cross Ligatures made In 
the laboratories of Johnson & Johnson. 



KKU CROSS NOTES 



n 



TYING THE KNOT. 

Without experimenting a little with 
knots in catgut it is difficult for any 
one to realize how poorly ordinary 
methods of tying are found to hold 
when applied to wet catgut. What is 

I 



On the other hand, if a double throw 
is made both in the first and second 
turn, the best results possible are se- 
cured, and it makes no difference 
whether it is a double throw granny 
knot or a double throw square knot. 



iytng Cai^vCt. 







first htti k*litt mkil* tytn^ fJit »*«•>!</ 




inti tdiUn.^ all/a 
• n HfaC raSfit,r. 

•M/t nJl cut </m^ 



«K f«A taf*. tfnot. 



untjflm TXrobi 




'^in.plc / Aroui. 




m ^»»<l km»l litter «rdtnaJ^ 
ItUit C^ut 



t^'t i rtyof f^tit 






C. £ tA*ll% 



apparently a good strong tight knot 
pulls out with the greatest ease. 

Most every one knows the difference 
between the wrong kind of knot, called 
the granny knot, and the correctly tied 
flat or square knot, but neither of these 
will hold for a moment when tied in 
wet catgut. 



While these points may seem to be 
unimportant, yet they are really of the 
very greatest importance, and there is 
no doubt that much trouble is experi- 
enced sometimes after operations be- 
cause of the slipping of knots tied in 
catgut ligatures and sutures. 



Even infected catgut ligatures wiP 
not lead to such long standing fistula 
as sometimes follow the retention of 
infected silk ligatures in the abdom- 
inal cavity. The catgut is finally ab- 
sorbed. 

In ordering, specify Red Cross Liga- 
tures. 



Various animal tissues have been 
suggested and used as ligature mate- 
rial. Kangaroo tendon, tendon from 
rabbit's ear, mouse's tail, sinews of 
deer, calf, horse hair, etc. 

Write for a sample of Red Cross 
Catgut. 

In ordering, specify Jelco Ligatures. 



IS RED CROSS NOTES 



NEWER CATGUT. 



In this issue of "Red Cross Notes" there are described the 
methods used in the laboratories of Johnson & Joihnson and 
the J. Ellwood Lee Company for the preparation of surgical 
catgut. These methods we believe to be the most important 
step in catgut preparation made since the classic mode of Lis- 
ter. In carrying out the process an attempt is made to apply 
the methods of surgical procedure in abdominal operations to 
the removal and preparation of sheep's intestines for surgical 
purposes. Under these methods we control the entire pro- 
cess from the living animal to the strand as it is used by the 
surgeon. The preparation begins at the moment the tissue is 
removed from the animal, all of the manipulations are carried 
on with a full consideration of the use to which it is to be put. 
The methods are in brief as follows : 

The selection and separation of the intestines under cleanly 
conditions. 

The immediate disinfection and cleansing of the separated 
tissue. 

The cleansing and disitifection of each fiber before making 
into strings. 

The sterilization of the string before torsion. 

The disinfection of the strings, and handling under aseptic 
conditions. 

The final packing and resterilization in the sealed containers. 

The finished catgut made by this process is a cord made up 
of healthy animal tissue, sterilized, aseptic, and unchanged in 
character. 

Catgut prepared under this process is packed in breakable 
tubes, tank, packages, envelopes and other forms, all of which 
are sterilized within the container and after sterilization sub- 
jected to bacteriological check tests. 

The processes and the various forms in which ligatures 
are furnished are described throughout this issue and illustrat- 
ed upon the covers. 

Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, N. J. 



RED CROSS NOTES 



19 



LIST OF LIGATURES. 



For convenience in ordering, a list of 
the more popular and desirable forms 
ligature paclcages oX the manufacture of 
Johnson & Johnson and the J. EUwood 
Lee Company are here given. The forms 
listed are illustrated in colors upon the 
covers of this issue of the "Red Cross 
Notes.'* A full list of the ligature mate- 
rial prepared in these laboratories will be 
found in the pamphlet entitled "A Hand 
Book of Ligatures." A copy of this book 
may be obtained on application to John- 
son & Johnson. 



CATGUT. 

Red Cross Envelopes, Catgut 

Regular ass't sizes doz. en v. $0.75 

Ass't sizes 4, 5 and 6.. doz. env. .90 
Box of 100 env. leg. ass't 

per box 5.00 
Box of 100 env. ass't 4, 5 and 6 

per box 6.00 
Emergency, with needles 

doz. env. 1.50 

Each envelope contains 28 inches of cat- 
gut. 

Regular stock sizes are Nos. 1, 2 and 3. 

Plain catgut, medium hard chromic anil 
extra hard chromic. 

Medium hard chromic sent on all orders 
for chromic gut unless extra hard is spec- 
ified. 

Envelopes are packed one doz. In a box, 
either assorted sizes in each box or all one 
size as desired. 

Also packed 100 in a box, assorted or all 
one size as desired. 

Also put up with threaded needle in 
each envelope (emergency). Half -curved 
needles only. Chromic catgut cannot be 
put up with needles. In ordering Emer- 
gency catgut, specify only the size of su- 
ture desired. The correct size of needle 
to fit the suture is supplied by us. 

lied Cross Tubes, Catgut "Breakable'* 

Catgut, plain doz. tubes 3.00 

Catgut, chromic doz. tubes 3.00. . 

Lee's "Breakable" Tubes 
Catgut 

2085 Catgut, plain doz. tubes 3.00 

2084 Catgut, chromic, .doz. tubes 3.00 

Sealed, breakable glass tubes containing 
the catgut preserved in the sterilizing 
liquid. 

Each tube contains 10 feet of catgut. 

Regular stock sizes are Nos. 1, 2 and 3. 

Plain catgut, medium hard chromic and 
extra hard chromic. Medium hard chro- 
mic sent on all orders for chromic gut un- 
less extra hard is specified. 



Each tube in an individual box and 1 
doz. of these in an outside box. 

Packed assorted sizes in each outside 
box or all one iize as desired. 

This style ip not supplied with needles. 



Wood's Tubes, Catgut. 

Catgut, plain per doz. tubes 2.00 

Catgut, chromic ..per doz. tubes 2.00 

Sealed, breakable glass tubes containing 
the catgut preserved in the sterilizing 
liquid. 

Each tube contains 30 inches of catgut. 

Regular stock sizes of catgut are Nos. 1, 
2 and 3. 

Plain catgut, medium hard chromic and 
extra hard chromic. Medium hard chro- 
mic sent on all orders for chromic gut un- 
less extra hard is specified. 

Each tube packed in an individual box 
and 1 doz. of these in an outside box. 

Packed assorted sizes in each outside 
box or all one size as desired. 

This style is not supplied with needles. 



lied Cross Emergency Tubes, Catgut 
"Breakable." 

Catgut per doz. tubes 1.80 

Each tube contains 17 inches of catgut 
threaded in a needle of proper size. 

Regular stock sizes are Nos. 1, 2 and 3. 

Size of needle need not be specified. 
Half-curved needles only are supplied. 

Chromic cannot be supplied with nee- 
dles. 

Each tube packed in an individual box 
and 1 doz. of these in an outside box. 

Packed assorted mIz«'H in each outside 
box, or all one size as desired. 



Zonas Catgut. 

Regular envelopes per doz. 1.26 

Large envelopes per doz. 2.50 

Put up only in envelopes. 

Contains silver iodide twisted into the 
strands and Is yellow in color. 

Prepared cnly in sizes 1, 2, 3 and 4. 

Not prepared chromicized nor treated in 
any other way. 

Zonas catgut cannot be put up with 
needles. 

Regular envelopes each contain 28 inches 
of catgut. 

Packed 1 doz. envelopes in a box. 

Assorted sizes in a box or all one size 
as desired. 

Large envelopes each contain 10 feet of 
catgut. 

Packed 1 doz. envelopes In a box. 

Assorted sizes in a box or all one size as 
desired. 



20 



UmT> CROSS NOTES 



L«e*s Small Size Breakable Tubes 

Catgut. 

Catgut, plain per doz. tubes 2.00 

Catgut, chromic ..per doz. tubes 2.00 

Sealed, breakable glass tubes containing 
the catgut preserved in the sterilizing 
liquid. 

Each tube contains 5 feet of catgut. 

Regular stock sizes are Nos. 1, 2 and 3. 

Plain catgut, meuium hard chromic and 
extra hard chromic. Medium hard chro- 
mic sent on all orders for chromic gut un- 
less extra hard is specified. 

Three tubes packed in a flat box. 

Packed assorted sizes in each box, or all 
three of one size as desired. 

This style i.s not supplied with needle.s. 



Lee's Emergency Tubes, Catgut. 
Catgut, plain per doz. tubes 1.80 

Sealed, breakable glass tubes containing 
the catgut and needle preserved In the 
sterilizing liquid. 

Each tube contains 17 inches of catgut, 
threaded in a needle of proper size. 

Regular stock sizes of catgut are Nos. 1, 
2 and 3. 

Size of needle need not be specified. 

Straight, half -curved and full-curved 
needles supplied. 

Chromic catgut cannot be supplied with 
needles. 

Packed 1 doz. tubes on a card, each card 
in a box. 

Packed assorted sizes of catgut and a.s- 
sorted shapes of needles on each card. 

Without Needles. 

Catgut, plain per doz. tubes 1.40 

Catgut, chromic. ..per doz. tubes 1.40 

Each tube contains 17 inches of catgut. 

Regular stock sizes of catgut are Nos. 1, 
2 and 3. 

Plain catgut, medium hard chromic and 
extra hard chromic. 

Packed 1 doz. tubes on a card, each card 
in a box. 

Packed assorted sizes on each card or 
all one size as desired. 



Lee's Tank Package Catgut. 

No. 1. One-spool tank. 

Catgut Plain doz. tanks 3.60 

Catgut, Chromic doz. tanks 3.60 

Glass containers with the catgut wound 
on a glass spool and arranged to be 
drawn out through a rubber stopper. 

Preserved in the sterilizing liquid. 

Each tank contains about 10 feet of cat- 
gut. 

Regular stock sizes are Nos. 1, 2 and 3. 

Plain catgut, medium hard chromic and 
extra hard chromic. 

Medium hard chromic sent on all orders 
for chromic unless extra hard is spev'iified. 



Each tank ' pecked in an individ- 
ual box and 1 doz. of these in an outside 
box. 

Packed assorted sizes in each outside 
box or all one size as desired. 

This style cannot be supplied with nee- 
dles. 



Lee's Tank Package, Catgut. 
Three -spool Tank. 

Catgut, plain doz. tanks 7.50 

Catgut, chromic doz. tanks 7.50 

Glass containers with the catgut wound 
on three glass spools, each arranged to 
be drawn out through a rubber stopper. 
. Preserved in the sterilizing liquid. 

Each tank contains about 10 feet of cat- 
gut on each spool, or about 30 feet In all. 

Regular stock sizes are Nos. 1, 2 and 3, 
catgut In each tank. 

Always assorted sizes in each tank. 

Plain catgut, medium hard chromic or 
extra hard chromic, but only one variety 
in any one tank. 

Medium hard chromic sent on all orders 
for chromic unless extra hard is specified. 

Each tank packed in an individual box 
and 1 doz. of these In an outside box. 

This style cannot be supplied witli 
needles. 



SILK. 

Red Cross Envelopes, Silk. 

Regular assorted sizes, .doz. env. .75 
Box of 100 env. reg. ass't.per box 4.50 
Emergency with needles. doz. env. 1.50 

Each envelope contains 1 yard of silk. 

Regular stock sizes twisted silk are Nos. 
5, 9 and 12. 

Regular stock sizes braided silk are Nos. 
4, 7 and 10. 

Envelopes are packed 1 doz. in a box. 
either assorted sizes in each box, or all 
one size as desired. 

Also packed 100 in a box, assorted or 
all one size as desired. 

Also put up with threaded needle In 
<ach envelope (emergency). 

Half-curved needles only. 

Specify only the size of suture desired. 
The correct size of needle to fit the suture 
Is supplied by us. 

This style supplied In white silk only. 



Red Cross Tubes, Silk. 
"Breakable." 

Twisted Silk doz. 3.00 

Braided Silk doz. 3.0u 



Lee's "Breakable" Tubes, Silk 

2087, Twisted Silk doz. 3.00 

2086, Braided Silk doz. 3.00 

Sealed, breakable glass tubes contain- 
ing the «iilk preserved in the sterilizing 
liquid. 



RED CROSS XOTKS 



21 



£ach tube contains 4 yds. of silk. 

Regular stock sizes twisted silk are Nob. 
6, 9 and 12. 

Regular stock sizes braided silk are Nos. 
4, 7 and 10. 

Each tube packed in an individual box 
and 1 doz. of these in an outside box. 

Packed assorted sizes in each outside 
box, or all one size as desired. 

These styles supplied only in wnite silk, 
cannot be supplied with needles. 

Wood's Tubes, Silk. 

Twisted Silk per doz. tubes 2.00 

Braided Silk per doz. tubes 2.00 

Sealed, breakable glass tubes contain- 
ing the slik preserved in the sterilizing 
liquid. 

Each tube contains 1 yard of silk. 

Regular stock sizes twisted silk are Nos. 
u. if and 12. 

Regular stock sizes braided silk are Nos. 
4, 7 and 10. 

Each tube packed in an individual box 
and 1 doz. of these in an outside box. 

Packed assorted sizes in each outside 
box or all one size, as desired. 

This style supplied in white silk only. 

Red Cross Emergency Tubes, Silk, 
"Breakable." 

Twisted Silk per doz. tubes 1.80 

Braided Silk per doz. tubes 1.80 

Each tube contains 17 inches of silk 
threaded in a needle of proper size. 

Regular stock sizes of twisted silk are 
Nos. 5, 9 and 12. 

Regular stock sizes of braided silk are 
Nos. 4, 7 and 10. 

Size of needle need not be specified. 

Half-curved needles, only are supplied. 

Each tube packed in an individual box 
and 1 doz. of these in an outside box. 

Packed assorted sizes in each outside 
box, or all one size as desired. 

This style supplied in white silk only. 



Each tube contains 17 inches of silk, 
threaded in a needle of proper size. 

Regular stock sizes of twisted silk are 
Nos. 5. 9 and 12. 

Regular ^tock sizes of braided silk are 
Nos. 4, 7 and 10. 

Size of needles need not be specified. 

Straight, half-curved and full-curved 
needles supplied. 

Packed 1 doz. tubes on a card, each card 
in a box. 

Packed assorted sizes of silk and as- 
sorted shapes of needles on each card. 



Without Needles. 

Twisted Silk per doz. txibes 1.40 

Braided iSilK per doz. tubes 1.4U 

Each tube contains 17 inches of silk. 

Regular stock sizes of twisted silk are 
Nos. 5, 9 and 12. 

Braided silk, Nos. 4, 7 and 10. 

Packed 1 doz. tubt^s on a card, each card 
in a box. 

Packed assorted sizes on each card or 
all one size, as desired. 

These styles in white slllc only. 



I^ee's Tank Package, Silk. 

No. 1 — One-spool Tank. 

Twisted Silk .doz. tanks 3.60 

Braided Silk doz. tanks, 3.60 

Glass containers with the silk wound 
on a glass spool and arranged to be 
drawn out through a rubber stopper. 

Preserved in the sterilizing liquid. 

Each tank contains about 4 yds. of silk. 

Regular stock sizes twisted silk are 
Nos. 5, 9 and 12. 

Regular stock sizes braided silk are 
Nos. 4, 7 and 10. 

Each tank packed in an individual box 
and 1 doz. of these in an outside box. 

Packed assorted sizes in each outside 
box or all one size as desired. 

This style supplied in white silk only; 
cannot be supplied with needles. 



Lee's small Size Breakable Tubes Silk. 

Twisted Silk per doz. tubes 2.00 

Braided Silk per doz. tubes 2.00 

Sealed, breakable glass tubes containing 
the silk preserved in the sterilizing liquid. 

Each tube contains 2 yards of silk. 

Regular stock sizes are Nos. 5, 9 and 12 
twisted silk, and Nos. 4, 7 and 10, braided 
silk. 

Three tubes packed in a flat box. 

Packed assor*ed sizes in each box or 
all three of one size, as desired. 

This style supplied in white silk only; 
cannot be supplied with needles. 

Lee's Emergency Tubes, Silk.' 

Twisted Silk.'. ... .per doz. tubes 1.80 
Braided Silk per doz. tubes.. 1.80 

Sealed breakable glass tubes containing 
the silk and needle preserved in the ster- 
JUzing liquid. 



Leo's Tank Package, Silk. 

Three -spool tank. 

Twisted Silk doz. tanks 7.50 

Braided Silk doz. tanks 7.50 

Glass containers with the silk wound 
on three glass spools, each arranged to 
be drawn out through a rubber stopper. 

Preserved in the sterilizing liquid. 

Each tank contains about 4 yards of 
silk on each spool or about 12 yards in 
all. 

Regular stock sizes twisted silk are 
Nos.rfi, 9 and 12. 

Regular stock sizes braided .:. !c are 
Nos. 4, 7 and 10. 

Always assorted sizes in each tank. 

Only one kind of silk in a tank, never 
both twisted and braided silk. 

Each tank packed In an individual box 
and 1 doz. of these in an outside box. 

This style supplied in white silk only; 
cannot be supplied with needles. 



22 



LIGATURE BIBLIOGRAPHY 



The literature covering the subject of ligatures is very extensive, espec- 
ially since the beginning of the present system of modern surgery. Catgut 
alone has been a fruitful theme for writers, the index of which would run into 
several thousand titles. The columns of Red Cross Notes have froir^ time to 
time added their quota and we are also led to believe that the articles which 
have so appeared have been helpful In the general discussion of the subject. 

The following is a list of the principal articles which have appeared in 
Red Cross Notes. 



"The Jersey Microscoplsts and the 
Germs in Catgut, Red Cross Notes 
Series I, No. 1, page 4. Description and 
slides of cultures of the bacillus anthrax 
obtained from catgut. 

"Catgut," Series I, No. 6, page 4. An- 
nouncement and description of catgut, or 
catgut sterilized within protecting en- 
velopes. 

"Infected Sheep's Intestines," Series I, 
No. 9, page 2. Description of the nature 
and source of ordinary catgut In the mar- 
ket. In the sam<* number appears a de- 
scription of the method of preparation of 
Red Cross Lieatures, and historical notes 
upon catgut tissue. 

"Catgut Sterilization," Series III. page 
109. Description and experimental tests 
of the cumol method of sterilization, Johns 
Hopkins University. 

"Suture Material," Series III, page 114. 
A discussion of absorbale and non -absorb - 
ale suture material. 

"Catgut Sizes," Series HI, page 128. A 
discussion of the letters and numbers used 
to designate catgut sizes, with a table of 
sizes of Red Cross Catgut compared with 
the ordinary gauge. (See also page 253). 

"The Absorbable Suture," Series III 
page 181. A discussion of the suitability 
of animal sutures as compared with silk, 
silver, etc. 

"Sutures in Intestmal Surgery,*' Series 
IV, page 28. Dr. Morgan Vance claims 
that the best suture material is catgrut, 
the best stitch the Lembert, or some 
mcdiflcatlon. 

"Antiseptic Ligatures Again," Series IV, 
page 56. The Introduction of catgut steri- 
lization thermally seems to be supplant- 
ing the preparation of this material with 
chemical germicides. Plain sterilized cat- 
gut, however, is an excellent nidus for the 
development of germs which may reach It 
after Its Insertion In a wound. It has 
therefore been advised by certain opera- 
tors to Impregnate the catgut with a mild 
antiseptic. 

"Suture of the Liver," Series IV, page 
91. Coffey states that In suture of the 
liver it is necessary to employ a matress 
suture, which he describes. 

"Iodized Catgut," Series V, page 40. The 
action of iodine brings about a gradual 
weakening of the strands, and final de- 
struction of the gut, especially in the 
smaller sizes. 

"The Choice of Suitable Material for 

Ligatures and Sutures," Series V, pa ere 
138. A historical review of the use of the 
ligature, with a discussion of the adapt- 
ability of animal tissue, silver and gold 
ivire, silk, silk-wormgut, etc. The au- 
thor concludes that catgut is one of the 



best substances available foi sutures and 
ligatures, describing methods for its se- 
lection. 

"What Is Catgut?' Series V, page 184. 
A description of catgut, its physical prop- 
erties. Its sizes, methods of preparation, 
and its anatomical structure, with micro- 
scopical Illustrations. 

"The Chemistry of Catgut," Series V. 
page 206. A chemical analysis of catgut, 
showing its constituents, makeup, that li 
is an organized collagen or gelatin, with 
a discussion of the effect of the reagents 
ordinarily used In sterilization, the prob- 
able effect of tissue fluids upon the con- 
stituents of the catgut strand, with an 
insight Into Its ultimate absorption with- 
in the tissue. 

"Reliable Catgut," Series V, page i^O. 
A review of the methods Introduced by 
Johnson & Johnson for the preparation of 
catgut for surgery. 

"Catgut— Its Absorption,'' Series V. 
page 256. A series of experiments con- 
ducted In the Scientific Department of 
Johnson & Johnson in order to ascertain 
whether the time of absorption of burled 
catgut could be foretold with any degree 
of accuracy. 

"Causes Which Retard Absorption of 
Catgut Sutures," Series V, page 257. A 
discussion of the conditions of tissue 
which modify the rate of absorption of 
sterilized catgut sutures. 

"Historical Notes on Ligatures," Series 
V, page 258. 

"The Choice of Suture Material In the 
Peritoneum," Series V, rage 258. Dr. 
Wetherill claims that catgut is an ideal 
suture: a second authority states that 
catgut Is the best ligature in clean 
wounds, as well as In wounds where there 
is possible suppuration. Silk-wormgut Is 
rarely If ever lustified as a ligature ma- 
terial. Silk, kangaroo tendon, or chromic 
gut serves as tendon sutures. 

"Catgut — Its Tensile Strength," Series 
V, page 272. A contribution from the Sci- 
entific Department of Johnson & Johnson, 
with a discussion of the causes which af- 
fect the tensile strength of the catgut, and 
the ordinary method of testing; the ef- 
fects of chemical heat, etc., upon the ten- 
sile strength; a description of the appa- 
ratus used In these laboratories for as- 
certaining the strength of catgut, with a 
table of approximate breaking strain of 
surgical catp'ut. 

"Suturing Wounds," Series V, page 286. 

"Not made by Slaughter House Meth- 
ods," Series V, page 287. A desclptlon of 
the new method of the preparation of sur- 
gical catgut by a series of processes of 
disinfection, beginning with the removal 
of the intestines from the animal. 



RED CROSS NOTES 



ss 



"The Suture as a Factor in Primary 
Union,'' Series VI, pages 9 and 32. A dis- 
cussion by James B. Morgan, M. D., Au- 
gusta, Ga., of the causes which at times 
retard primary union and the role of cat- 
gut therein, in wnich the author ad- 
vances the belief that the principle draw- 
back to primary union in aseptic wounds 
lies in faulty methods in the application 
of the suture rather than in the material 
used. 

"Dr. Ashton's Method of Threading a 
Needle." Series VI, page 18. Illustrations 
of a convenient method of threading a 
needle, either with silk or catgut liga- 
tures. "Catgut Suture in Fracture of the 
Patella,*' Series VI. page 82. Note by 
Riedl on the complications arising in cer- 
tain old and recent fractures where catgut 
was employed. 

"The Ideal Ligature," by A. D. Whit- 
ing, M. D., Philadelphia. Series v'l page 
98. 

Discussion of experiments which led to 
the perfection of Zonas Catgut by im- 
pregnating the untwisted tissue with Sil- 
ver Iodide. Series VI, page 94. (See also 
page 104 and 184). 

"Ligature Sizes," Series VI, page 154. 
Description w^ith illustrations of sizes for 
catgut and silk ligature material. 

"Ten, Twenty and Thirty-day Catgut," 
Series VI, page 162. Explanation that 
these terms are in reality trade terms 
and designations and are not to be taken 
literally. 

"Bacteriological Testing of Ligatures," 
Series VI, page 170. Contribution from 
the Scientific Department of Johnson & 
Johnson, detailing the methods employed 
in the bacteriological testing of catgut. 

"Zonas Catgut." Series VI, page 194. 
Contribution by the Scientific Department 
of Johnson & Johnson, demonstrating that 
silver iodide will remain as long as any 
portion of the catgut itself remains un- 
absorbed. 

"Tying Wet Catgut," Series VI, page 
196. Contribution by the Scientific De- 
partment of Johnson & Johnson with il- 
lustrations showing the forms of knots 
which give the most satisfactory results 
with wet catgut. 

"Our Way of Preparing Catgut." illus- 
trating the methods of preparing catgut 
in the laboratories of Johnson & Johnson, 
together with the methods of bacteriologi- 
cal tests. 

"Ten, Twenty and Thirty-day Catgut," 
Series VI, page 239. Contribution by the 
Scientific Department of Johnson & John- 
son, explaining that these are trade terms 
and designations; they are misleading 
and in the opinion of the leading surgeons 
these terms should bo abandoned as being 
inexact. Hardened catgut should be pre- 
pared to various degrees of hardness and 
f'esignated by terms expressive thereof. 
For the result of experiments upon ani- 
mals and the opinion of surgical authori- 
ties, see also page 245. 

"Ligatures In Envelopes. »' Contribu- 
tion from the Scientific Department of 
Johnson & Johpson. illustrating the 
methods of opening which prevent infec- 
tion from outside sources. 



"A Reserve Suture Outfit," Series VI, 
page 255. Sugfirested by Dr. Ooethe Link, 
of a reserve suture outfit for abdominal 
operations. 

"The Preparation of Catgut," Series VI, 
page 267. Note by Dr. Charles H. Chris- 
tal, London, suggesting that catgut itself 
even though sterile may induce suppura- 
tion, with suggestions also of a remedy 
therefor. 

"Catgut Absorption," Series VI, page 
271. Abstracts from a paper by Dr. H. 
Cabot, of Boston, with suggestions as to 
the selection of sizes best suited for cer- 
tain operations, care in tying, cutting, 
etc., with observations as to the phe- 
nomena of absorption. 



HARDENED CATGUT. 

Several reports of the researches con- 
ducted by the scientific staff of John- 
son & Johnson upon the subject ol 
hardened or chromicized catgut have 
been recorded in Red Cross Notes and 
elsewhere. Some of these researches 
have been carried out through corres- 
pondence and otherwise, with several 
hundred leading surgeons of the Unit- 
ed States. As a result the conclusion 
was to the effect that catgut as or- 
dinarily hardened was most uncertain 
and unreliable and the authorities were 
unanimously of the opinion that th? 
terms ten twenty and thirty day as 
applied to catgut hardened with 
chromic acid, or any other agent, 
should be discontinued. 

The conclusion was reached that the 
requirements in a hardened catgut, 
and the most important ones to be 
considered, were that it should be 
thoroughly sterilized; that it should 
be approximately uniform in the time 
which it would resist absorption; 
that it was utterly impossible for an 
operator to say how long a specimen 
of catgut would remain unabsorbed in 
any given tissue; that a catgut which 
would remain unabsorbed for a period 
of about ten days is sufficient for most 
purposes. Where it is desired that the 
catgut shall remain unabsorbed longer, 
one which will resist absorption for a 
period about twice as long as ordinary 
catgut of the same size, will fulfill the 
needs. 

It was also found that catgut prepar- 
ed by immersion of the intestinal tis- 
sue before twisting in a hardening so- 
lution produced a strand uniformly 
hard and with an approximate definite 
time of absorption. 



24 



RED CROSS NOTES 



The result of the experiments, 
amounting to many hundred* was to 
the effect that we could produce two 
grades of hardened catgut as far as 
absorption is concerned. While it was 
impossible for the many reasons sug- 
gested by the experiments noted, and 
by those of the surgeons, to apply a 
definite time for the absorption of 
catgut, as, for instance, days or hours, 
it was shown that a catgut could be 
produced which in a given size in com- 
parison with a plain catgut of the 
game size .could be said to be of med- 
ium hardness, and another grade which 
could be said to be extra hard. In 
other words, if under identical con- 
ditions a No. 2 plain catgut remained 
intact or practically intact for one 
week a medium hard catgut of the 
same size and under the same con- 
ditions would remain unabsorbed for 
ten or twelve days, and in some in- 
stances longer. Catgut specially hard- 
ened, or, in other words, extra hard, 
of the same size and under the same 
conditions would remain unabsorbed 
for twenty days or more. 

These grades were found to be suf- 
ficiently accurate for practical pur- 
poses, the testimony of the surgeons 
being to the effect that it is of no 
consequence whether a ligature keeps 
intact for ten to fifteen days provided 
it hold long enough to do the work 
which may be expected of it. 

In accordance with these researches, 
and following the the almost unani- 
mous suggestions of the most exper- 
ienced surgeons, Johnson & Johnson 
and the J. Elwood Lee Co. have decid- 
ed to abandon the designation "ten 
day," "twenty day" and "thirty 
day" as applied to catgut, and 
supply in their places catgut 
labelled "medium hard" and "ex- 
tra hard," these terms signify the ap- 
proximate degrees with which the 
strands will resist absorption. The 
catgut sent under these designations is 
treated with the hardening agents just 
before being twisted into strands; the 
strands are therefore more evenly 
hardened than by the ordinary method 
where the hardening agent is applied 
after the strand has been twisted, and 
it is confidently believed that this 
form of catgut will be found to be more 
uniform and more reliable than any 



which has heretofore been produced. 

Catgut under the designations 
•medium hard" and "extra hard" is 
supplied in envelopes, tubes and other 
forms of packages. 

A full report of the researches which 
led to the adoption of this method of 
hardening catgut is given in Red Cros.<! 
Notes, Series VI, No. 10, and has also 
l)een issued in the form of a reprint, 
which will be sent upon request. 



ZONAS CATGUT. 

This is a special form of catgut liga- 
tures. During the process of twist- 
ing the catgut tissues, as described 
elsewhere in this issue, are impregnat- 
ed and coated with a thoroughly pre- 
cipitated silver iodide. Silver iodide 
is an insoluble combination of iodine 
and silver (insoluble in the ordinary 
sense as regards water). The value 
and desirability of this salt for im- 
pregnating catgut has been explained 
in various medical journals and in 
several issues of "Red Cross Notes." 
These reports have shown that silver 
iodide is a non-irritating antiseptic 
which inhibits the growth of bacteria, 
that is to say, it has a stimulating 
influence in the absorption of catgut, 
and that in the presence of this salt 
secondary infection around the catgut 
is prevented. 

On the back cover of this issue ap- 
pears a striking demonstration of this 
salt in preventing germ growth upon 
catgut even in infected wounds. 

Experiments have shown that the gut 
has germicidal powers and not merely 
antiseptic qualities, and that in no in- 
stance ^was there any hindrance either 
aseptic or otherwise to healing by first 
intention. 

Zonas Catgut is absorbed in about 
the same time as regular plain cat- 
gut. 

Zonas Catgut is supplied in enve- 
lopes only, in two sizes, — small size, 
twenty-eight inches in length, and the 
large size, ten feet coils. At the 
present time only Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4, 
are prepared. 

Zonas Catgut cannot be supplied 
with needles. See list elsewhere in 
this issue. 




iQNAt OATOUT. 



t 



MAIN STOnUZEQ CATQUT. 



Zonas Catgut is sterile gat strands or ribbons impregnated with 
silTer iodide before twisting. The silTer iodide preyents germ growth 
even in infected wounds. This is an illustration of a plate of nutrient 
agar jelly infected with staphyloooocus pyogenes aureus. The colonies 
can be seen growing upon and around the strand of plain sterile catgut. 
The bright yellow strands are Zonas Catgut surrounded by a clear 
zone, showing that the organisms cannot grow in the presence of 
Zonas Catgut. 




28 INCH 



ZONAS CATGUT 



before ^ 



<H DOUBLE ENVELOPE CE«M PROOF 

This ligature is not onlv sterile, but Is iniide of 
.tpeciKlly prepared catgut the strands of which, 
twisting, ttn impre?f>»te«l with silver iodide. 

PATfMT *l>at.l(0 ro» 

ClennAcd. Medicated. Twisted 
and Fiulshed |>y 



■^ 



QofUvkon-f^o^vnAorv 



4- 



MANUrt. CHEMISTS NEW BRUNSWICK. N.J. U.S. A. 



tV t » V 1' , 



1 ' ■ ' / VA '' 



jm<&<^m>mm$mmm 



.1 




D CROSS NOTES ^^ 




SERIES VII 



NUMBER TWO 



RED CROSS COTTON NUMBER 



I. 





(••w«"!PPPiWWP»»fWPWP!"WiWIWI!P«lpWPW 




IMPROVED FORM OF FACKING— EDGES AND ENTIRE LAYER f'ROTECTED. 



PRODUCTS OF THE RED CROSS COTTON MILL 






RED CROSS NOTES 



New Brunswick, M. J. 



Number Two 



RED CROSS NOTES 
Published by Johnson & Johnson, New Bruns- 
wick, N. J., IJ- S. A. 
Fred B. Kilmer, Editor 



inal research along Ihc liiif ot the panieul; 
branches of the art in which Ihcy labor. 

IVrsons receiving Red Cross Nolis will coi 
fer a favor by notifying the publishers of an 



A STUDY IN COTTON 
While much is known about cotton 
as an article of commerce, less is known 
of absorbent cotton and surgical mate- 
rials made of cotton than of any other 
articles common to the surgeon's arma- 



Considerable space has been given in 
various issues of Red Cross Notes to a 
study of absorbent fibre, which is known 
to modern surgery as absorbent cotton 
in its various forms. This- data is the 
result of investigations made in the 
Johnson & Johnson laboratories. They 



made a scientific research which began 
in the field where cotton is grown, and 
followed the fibre to its ultimate appli- 
cation by the surgeon. These efforts 
were made to devise and apply pro- 
cesses that tend to advatice the value 
of cotton for wound-dressing. 

The basic principle in running these 
laboratories is that cotton for surgical 
purposes should be prepared by persons 
who have a knowledge of the require- 
ments of modern surgery, coupled with 
the mechanical skill and scientific re- 
search necessary to carry out this basic 
principle. ■ 

The labors of Johnson & Johnson in 
the preparation of absorbent cotton, ab- 
sorbent gauze and other materials made 
of cotton for surgical uses, have been of 
great value in the advancement of the 
surgical profession. Some of the ad- 
vanced processes which they have de- 
vised and inaugurated are briefly 
sketched and illustrated in these pages. 

It is believed that these workers are 
preparing perfect absorbent cotton prep- 
arations for surgical uses. 



ned by hand-labor. 



This pic 



BED CROSS NOTES 



A COTTON FIBRE 



If one can imagine a rubber tube 
about one inch in length, with one end 
dosed and ihe tube twisted and doubled 
upon itself for more than one hundred 
times from end to end, he will gain an 
idea of a cylindrical, collapsible plant 
cell resembling a cotton tibre. 

A cotton fibre, then, is a minute hair 
formed on and attached to the seed of 
the cotton plant. The hair is tubular, 
the outer sheet being pure cellulose, the 
tubular opening being filled with the 
plant juices. Torn from the seed the 
fibre collapses into a ribbon-like form. 

In the cotton mills of Johnson & 
JohnsoHj the cotton fibres are cleansed 
from dirt and specks. To a certain 
extent they are straightened out and 
one by one they are combed and 
brushed, and each entwined around its 
neighbor, drawn parallel, weighed and 
measured. 

When made into surgical gauze the 
fibres are twisted together and spun into 
a thread, and in turn woven into cloth. 
A yard of surgical gauze contains about 
14,000,000 fibres of cotton. 

In its natural state raw cotton fibre 
is coated, and the interior tube is filled 
with a sticky varnish-like substance. It 
is saturated through and through wilh a 
mixture of oils, waxes and jelly and is 
stained with coloring material. In this 
natural condition it will not absorb 
liquids or take up discharges from 
wounds ; hence, to make such fibres into 
absorbent cotton these substances must 
be extracted, the fibre hydrolyzed and 
washed. In fact, the cotton must be 
flooded with water, until it comes out 
white and free from everything but its 
peculiar cellulose body. 

There are more than 140,000,000 fibres 
in a pound of cotton and to make this 
hi to absorbent cotton or surgical gauze, 
each fibre must be, in a sense, individ- 
ually treated and handled many times 

In the Red CroBs Cotton Mills these 
fibres pass through some forty opera- 
tions. The last operation is a rolling 
and putting into packages, and the im- 
pregnation or permeation of each fibre 
with steam or germ -destroying gases; in 
other words — sterilization. 

In preparing cotton for surgical uses 
if one man did all the work, he would 
handle the same bit of cotton more thar 



forty times ; and the bale of cotton, from 
the day of entering the laboratory, 
would require ten days to make it ready 
for the surgeon. The loss of weight in 
passing from the raw condition to that 
of the finished absorbent cotton would be 
not far from forty per cent 



Cotton though known to mc aiii;iciiis 
did not reach commercial supremacy 
until it came to, be the great staple 
production of our Sunny South. It 
ihere received a pojjular personification 
and became an all important factor in 
tne American Union under the title of 
"King Cotton." 

■ ■ The United States is the most im- 
portant cotton growing country in the 



RED CROSS NOTES Xf 

SELECTING THE RAW MATERIAL cepted" and if not the bale is marked 



in the manufacture of Red Cross Cot- 
tun and Gauze the selection and exami- 
nation of the raw cotton fibre becomes 
a matter of the greatest importance. 

It is the practice in. the Johnson & 
Johnson laboratories to contract for the 
cotton at the opening of the cotton sea- 
son, 3 part of the specifications being 
that the cotton should be of good body, 
clean and free from mud, leaf, sand and 
dirt, and reach a certain standard as to 
staple, elasticity, etc. 

Every bale of cotton as it arrives at 
the warehouse is weighed, and to it is 
assigned a number, together with the 
bale marks, weight, shipper's number and 
number of contract to which it applies, 
a sample is taken from each bale and 



bale, and is lagged with tbe 
bale marln. 

critically examined, the samples being 
placed m a paper cylinder for this pur- 
pose to which is attached a duplicate of 
the marking upon the bale. These sam- 
ples are then examined by experts as 
to cleanliness, length of fibre, strength 
of fibre, amount of ripe, half ripe and 
unripe fibre, color, etc. The standard 
Ifngth of fibre acceptable to Johnson & 
Johnson is 1 1-16 inch, and the color 
what is known as "good." If a sample 
is found up to the grade desired and it 
is approvra the bale is marked "ac- 



.ected." 

Elsewhere is illustrated fibres which 
are acceptable together with several 
samples illustrating those which have 
been rejected. Spread out on a black 
surface as here shown it is not difficult 
for a novice to see tbe difference. 



RED CROSS COTTON MILLS 

The buildings for the manufacture of 
Red Cross Cotton and Gauze were erect- 
ed in 1900. This plant is a unique man- 
ufactory. ■ 

Previous to the erection of these mills, 
Johnson & Johnson purchased finished 
gauze and other materials and then 
packed them for surgical uses. 

Now. since 1900, the Red Cross Cot- 
ton Mills turn out gauze cloth that is 
manufactured especially for surgical 
purposes. Johnson & Johnson combine 
the manufacture of surgical dressings 
with a cotton cloth mill. 

The advantage of manufacturing as 
well as preparing cloth for surgical 
dressings is not only an advantage but a 
necessity in order to obtain absolute 
cleanliness. Mills that turn out com- 
mercial cotton cloth manufacture from 
the commercial standpoint only — pro- 
ducing the greatest amount of goods at 
the least outlay of capital. Surgical 
cleanliness is not obtained or even un- 
derstood in such mills. General condi- 
tions are unpleasant and no attention is 
paid to the health of the operatives. 

The Red Cross Cotton Mills, however, 
.stand in strong contrast. Few build- 
ings, erected for any purpose whatever, 
are better lighted and ventilated. No 
other cotton cloth factory is comparable 
to this, say the visitors who are acquaint- 
ed with the largest mills of England. 
New England and the South. The Red 
Cross factories are striking examples 
of American progress. 

The Red Cross Cotton Mills alone 
have been able to meet the present de- 
mands for better surgical goods, more 
reliable goods, more cleanly goods. And 
this concern alone has made the manu- 
facture of surgical dressings a separate 
and distinct industry. Just as the in- 
vention of cloth -making machines began 
a new era in that industry, so the erec- 
tion of the Red Cross Cotton Mills 
marked a new era in the production of 
gauic dressings for surgery. 



RED CROSS NOTES 



3s prepared tor ixanunacion. The two upper rows represent bales v 
sf length and character oE staple. 

r qnalitiea in tolton fibre are (1) Imglh of fibre, (2) amallness r 
iness and smoothness. (4) elasticity, (5) atrength, (6) color, (7) I 
,Lon, (8) natural twist, and (9) corrugated edgej. 



not goo 


d enough f 


t ma 


ing into Red 


C 


graph CO 

it is ou 


Hid be made 
belief that 


into 
these 


rejecUd bales 


n. 



a typical bale of Ameri 



RED CROSS NOTES 



THE CHEMISTRY OF MAKING 
COTTON 

The processes employed in rendering 
cotton fibres absorbent may be con- 
sidered as very simple or very intricate, 
according to the point of view. They 
are popularly termed bleaching methods. 
but they differ quite essentially from 
ordinary bleaching. 

Cotton fibre can he bleached without 
being rendered absorbent, and it can be 
made absorbent without being bleached. 
On the continent cotton fibres are made 
absorbent and then prepared for surgical 
uses by the simple extraction of fatty 
matter with solvents, such as naphtha, 
carbon bisulphide, or by an alkaline 
treatment without bleaching. The re- 
sulting product will absorb water, but 
it is not white. Bleached cotton clolh 
and bleached cotton fibres which are not 
absorbent are well-known products. 

The chemical processes followed in the 
Red Cross Laboratories may be sum- 
marized as follows : 

1. Cotton fibres mechanically cleansed 
of dirt and other impurities, carded ; in 
other words, opened out and separated, 
are packed in boilers and washed with 

2. Alkaline hydrolysis. In this process 
the non-cellulose constituents of the 
fibre (waxes, fats, oils, pectones, etc.) 
are hydrolized. In this treatment a por- 
tion of the cellulose is dissolved by 
being saponified. In certain experi- 
ments conducted by me the loss in 
wei^t in this process averaged from 
four to nine per cent. The products of 
the alkaline treatment are not easily 
removefl from the fibre. 

3. Extraction of alkaline hydrolyzed 
products. This is a long and tedious 
process. Indeed, at the end of the 
process the fibre structure is not entirely 
free from its content. Their final re- 
irvoval takes place subsequently. 

4. Oxidation. This is the removal of 
coloring matter and by-products of the 
alkaline treatment formed in the preced- 
ing stages. The hypochlorites of lime 
and soda have both been used, the 
former is employed exclusively in the 
cheaper grades of cotton and clotli ; the 
soda produces a softer, whiter and more 
elastic product. The oxidation in these 
processes is carried to -the utmost limits 
that the fibre will allow. The require- 
ment is not only to attack the color but 
to penetrate every molecule and to break 



.^^A_ 



up every existing combination, even 
those remaining from the alkaline hy- 
drolysis. The way is thus prepared for 
the removal in subsequent operations of 
everything except true cellulose. This 
process is a most important and delicate 
one. The cellulose itself is liable to be 
attacked and oxidized, and that the cel- 
lulose is oxidized is shown by the great 
rapidity with which these fibres take up 
basic coal tar dyes. The fibre is ren- 
dered more or less tender and gives the 
usual reactions for oxy-cellulose. 

5. Hydro-extraction, neutralization and 
removal of oxidizing chemicals. In this 
process, unless the products are most 
thoroughly washed away they are liable 
to be carried over mlo subsequent 
processes. Indeed, their thorough re- 
moval requires a special and separate 



The final product is hollow fibres of 
chemically pure cellulose — Red Cross 

WHAT THE TERMS MEAN 
The terms "absorbent cotton" and 
"absorbent gauze" have a much wider 
meaning than they at first seem to imply. 
The preparation of surgical gauze from 
the cotton field to the finished product, 
even extending to the time when it 
reaches the patient, requires in every 
step the same skill and accuracy imposed 
upon the preparation of any medicinal 



RED CROSS NOTES 



Raw cotton entering machinei like those on IIk 
and other impurities are hlowD out by drafU of air. 
The fibres are gathered into a blanket or aheet at «hown at the left of tlie picture, pauins in 

Large pipes pass from room to room, and through these conduits the cotton fibres are blowo 
from end to end. from floor lo floor, and from building to building. While on their way every 
bit of short fl^ng fibre, dirt, seed, sand, leaf, ahuck, and wbatnot, is picked Dp and blown away. 
•D there b no duat or litter to be seen. 



r the gauze, is passed to the 



RED CROSS KOTES 



In one case the material comes from a 
source in which the needs of surgery are 
^ignored op not understood; in the other 
:case, the material comes from the raw 
material to the finished product where 
all the work is done in a surgical labora- 
tory. 



b); repeated sire 
tbreadi ut thr] 



This picture graphically portrays the 
operation of gauze making and steriliza- 
tion, which typifies the work of the Red 
Cross Laboratories, In these labora- 
tories cotton in the bale, as it comes 
from the field, is cleansed, carded, spun 
into threads, woven into gauze, made 
absorbent (medicated when necessary) 
packed in containers, sterilized, and 
made ready for the operating rooms. 
All the transformations of the raw cot- 
ton (o the finished dressing are carried 
out under the conditions that meet the 
requirements of modern surgical science. 
Here, in part, is the strong line, the dif- 
ference between the products of the Red 
Cross Laboratories and those which 
emanate from th? ordinary cotton mills. 



RED CROSS COTTON 
The Red Cross is the trade-mark of 
Johnson & Johnson and it appears upon 
the label of all of their goods and is a 
guarantee of the genuineness of the 
products. They also guarantee the blue 
carton and the blue tissue paper between 
the layers of cotton. But other makers 
of absorbent cotton, presumably to make 
their cotton appear to be as good as 
Johnson & Johnson's, roll their cot- 
ton in tissue and put it in a blue carton 
and, worse still, print a label bear- 
ing a red star, a red square, a red 
wheel or a red sotnething that is in- 
tended to look like the genuine Red 
Cross Cotton. All this is flattering to 
the originators. It is, however, an un- 
fair means of gaining trade. More than 
all, it is often very disappointing to the 
surgeon, 



BED CROSS NOTES 



3 sheds of spider web like Biriicture. Absocbenl collon 19 carded after being exiracted. 
e Red Craae Cotlon Mills the machinei which make-up cotton fibre are of all sorts, 
die it in a niaB>— dirt and all, some work in such detail aa to literally take up the 
es one by one, the librea are brushed and cleaned, pulled out side bj side, evened up. 
into a fluffy fleecy rope, and finally by continual twislinEi and pulling Ibis rope is made 



Gauze making. The beating and cleansing of cotton for Ihe manufacture of surgical gs 
Is quite like that for the production of absorbent collon, the essential difference being iBat 
fine, fleecy sheet as it emerges from the carding machine, when inlendedfor game, is coiled 
t (art •)! loose rope callijd a ■'{liv^r." This "sliver" forms the first stage of (he threiMj, 



R&D CROSS NOTES 
SPINNING YARN FOR GAUZE 



A pound of c 
The illustratio 



mes ihro 


gh whi 


h tlK thread m 


St 


ng is also 


gomg 




Thus a tran 


sfq 


dghtly ^ 


un fine 


thr 


Md. 






of such 


Ih 


ead. The a 




terlockid 


nto ga 




clolh. 




spinning 


ooma in 




e Red CroM 


Co 



RED CROSS NOTES 



Weaving gauu. Tbe third stage of clolb makini i« the weaving itself. Weaving is in 
interlacing of threads generally at right miles to form a texture or cloth. In tlie old hand 
process the weaver lifts up every alternate thread of the Itngihwise set, known as the "warp," 
passes it under the shuttle conlaininf; the transverse thread, ealFed the "weft" or "woof." A 
familiar household definition of weaving is the darning of stockingii the needle takes the place 
of the shuttle, and carries the transverse or weft threads over and tinder (he warp threads. Tbe 
illustration ehows one of the weaving rooms in (he Red Cross Cotton Mills. 

The gauze, after being woven is sewn into an endless rope that is carried antomatiolly la 
the hydrolytic laboratory, where, passing over rollers, it is transferred from aolution. to solution 

matically to a dryer, never 1>eing touched by hand. 



S£D CROSS NOTES 



PURE WATER FOR RED CROSS 
COTTON 
The character and quality of the water 
used in the preparation of cotton fibre 
for surgical uses is of great importance. 
For the purpose of making Red Cross 
Absorbent Cotton and Gauze this is at- 
tained by means of a filter plant of the 
most modern construction, the principle 
involved beingif^dimentation after treat- 



and that each individual cell constitutes 
a filter. For this reason only the purest 
and most colorless water must be used; 
otherwise the cotton would filter out 
sedimentary matter from the water and 
coloring matter. When impure water is 
passed through a considerable depth of 
cotton, the water is to a degree purified 
and the cotton in turn rendered unfit 
for use. 



ment with a coagulant (aluminum sul- 
phate). The filter beds are of the sand 
and gravel type, cleaned by means of 
compressed air blown through them 
from below, followed by washing with 
filtered water. 

Routine tests are made for turbidity, 
temporary hardness (cartwnates), color 
and freedom from aluminum sulphate. 

Periodical bacteriological examinations 
are made including the fermentation and 
lactose litmus tests. 

It may be observed that a very hard 
water is objectionable for use in the 
preparation of a high grade of absorbent 
colion, not only on account of the reac- 
tion of the chemicals used, but from the 
fact that the fibres being absorbent hold 
so much of the water that upon drying 
a portion of the lime and salts would 

Again it is essential that the water 
should be free from color and from 
organic matter. This requirement will 
be apparent when it is considered that 
each fibre of absorbent cotton is a capil- 
lary porous cell of absorbent cellulost. 



r Red Cross Cotton Will 

NEW ERA DRESSINGS 
The Red Cross Laboratories are not 
onlj' the largest surgical dressing fac- 
tories in the world, but they surpass all 
others in their system of producing as a 
unit by strictly up-to-date methods. 
They are the first factories in the world 
to take raw cotton and put it through 
all the processes by which it is trans- 
formed into finished surgical dressings. 
Other surgical suppliers are handlers 
rather than manufacturers of surgical 
dressings, because they depend upon 
commercial cotton mills for their gauze. 
Buyers and users of surgical dressings 
may well prefer the goods manufac- 
tured from the beginning by a firm that 
keeps its manufacturing plant as clean 
as a hospital ward. For the surgeon 
and the consumer, reliable goods are of 
vital importance. 

Physicians are invited to correspond 
with Johnson & Johnson respecting any 
of their products, or upon topics allied 
to their line of manufacture. Descrip- 
tive literature and samples will be fur- 
nished on request. 



COTTON FRO! 



^ Operations upon raw cotton fibre as carried out in the Red Cross Cotton 
Mills of Johnson & Johnson in the preparation of absorbent cotton: 

Mechanical Operations 

1. Sampling and inspection to establish grade and reject inferior qualities. 

2. Mixing — Blending of different varieties of raw cotton, in order to 
secure economical production, uniform quality and color, and an even thread. 
Mixing is, in a measure, imperatively necessary, in order to neutralize the 
irregularities of growth found more or less in all cottons. 

3. Opening, in which process the matted masses of cotton fibre are opened 
out and the heavy impurities, such as sand, shell, leaf, etc., are removed. 

4. Beating, blowing, lapping or "scutching" are a continuation of the 
process of opening, at the end of which the cotton is rolled in an even sheet 
or lap. The cotton at this stage has been opened up and restored to the same 
condition as it was when first gathered at the plantation, minus seed, sand, 
leaf, dust and other impurities. 

5. Carding — The fibres are, in this process, further opened out and indi- 
vidually separated ; laid approximately parallel ; very fine impurities are re- 
moved together with short and unripe fibres. As the cotton leaves the card, 
the fibres, if to be made into absorbent cotton, are gathered together in a 
web or fleece; if to be made into surgical gauze, the fibres are gathered into 
a rope a little less than an inch in diameter, called a "sliver." 

ABSORBENT COTTON FROM START TO FINISH 

Cotton fibre, after treatment by the processes outlined above, when made 
into absorbent cotton, passes through a series of chemical and mechanical 
operations, the principal ones being here noted. 

Chemical Processes 

1. The cotton fibre, mechanically cleaned, is packed in boilers and washed 
with water, preparatory to chemical treatment. 

2. Alkaline Hydrolysis. — In this process the non-cellulose constituents 
of the fibre, wax, fat oils, pectose, etc., are hydrolized to products soluble in 
alkaline liquids. 

3. Extraction of alkali and hydrolized products. 

4. Oxidation for removal of residues and by-products of the alkaline 
treatment, and oxidation of the coloring matter of the raw fibres (the first 
stage of bleaching) • . , . 

5. Extraction of oxidizing chemicals. 

6. Acid Oxidation. — A completion of the oxidization and bleaching action 
of the foregoing process. 

7. Extraction of acid and acid products. 

8. Second alkaline hydrolysis. 

9. Extraction of alkaline products. 

10. Second acid oxidization (completion of bleaching). 

11. Neutralization of chemicals and removal of neutralization salts. 

12. Hydro extraction. 

Mechanical Processes 

1. Opening. — The fibre at this point is bleached and absorbent, but some- 
what matted and tangled and must be opened for subsequent operations. 

2. Drying (temperature 220). 

3. Lapping. — Gathered into sheets preparatory to carding. 

4. Carding. — Fibres individually separated and formed into thin films, 
the films gathered into layers. 

5. Extraction of oxidizing chemicals. 

6. Cutting. — Rolls cut into sizes, — pound, half-pound, quarter-pound, 
ounce, etc. 

7. Packing into cartons. 

8. Sterilization. 9. Bacteriological tests. 



hRT TO FINISH 



SURGICAL GAUZE FROM START TO FINISH 

Cotton fibre, after treatment by the processes outlined on the opposite 
page, if made into surgical gauze, passes througfh a series of mechanical and 
chemical operations, the principal ones of which are here noted : 

1. "Combing." — A literal combing to obtain uniformity in the length of 
the fibres, in which all those shorter than the required standard are combed 
away and rejected. 

2. "Drawing." — In this operation several slivers are combined and atten- 
uated to the dimensions of one of the component parts; the object is to render 
the new sliver more uniform in thickness, and to place the fibres more per- 
fectly in parallel order. 

3. "Slubbing." — This is a process by which a further combination of the 
slivers is affected. The drawing or attenuation of the strand is now carried 
so far that it becomes necessary to twist it slightly in order to preserve its 
cohesion and rounded form. 

4. "Intermediate" or "Second Slubbing." — A repetition of the above; 
object, to produce even and clean yarn. 

5. "Roving." — A continuation of the preceding, to still further attenuate 
the sliver. At this point the rope or sliver receives additional twist to enable 
it to bear the slight strain necessary to draw it from the "spool" without the 
formation of uneven places. 

6. "Spinning." — The sliver is here attenuated to the required fineness and 
is given the twist by which the thread is completely formed. 

7. "Doubling." — The combining of two or more threads to form a single 
cord for the production of varieties of yarn which are used for different 
purposes. 

Weaving Operations 

The transformation of the yarn, after leaving the spinning process, into 
cloth. These processes may be considered as five : a. Winding, b. Spinning, 
c. Sizing, d. Drawing or twisting the warp. e. Weaving or interlacing the 
threads so as to make a texture. 

Operations on the Woven Cloth 

The woven gauze cloth is made of raw fibre ; is therefore non-absorbent, 
and must be made absorptive. This requires operations similar to those for 
rendering cotton absorbent. The gauze cloth is carried through these opera- 
tions in one continuous piece of fifty thousand yards, passing from solution 
to solution automatically, at the rate of about 200 yards per minute. 

1. "Gray Washing." 

2. "Bowking." — Decomposition of fatty, resinous and waxy matters in 
the threads preparatory to removal by subsequ<*nt operations. 

3. Washing. 

4. Alkaline hydrolysis. 

5. Extraction of alkali and hydrolized products. 

6. Alkaline oxidization (first stage of bleaching). 

7. Extraction of oxidizing chemicals. 

8. Acid oxidization. 

9. Second alkaline hydrolysis. 

10. Extraction of alkaline products. 

11. Second acid oxidization (completion of bleaching). 

12. Neutralization of chemicals and removal of neutralization salts. 

13. Opening. — The gauze cloth at this point is white and absorbent, but 
folded and twisted and must be opened to full width for the next operation. 

14. Tentering (stretching, drying, calendering). 

15. Rolling (folding automatically). If for antiseptic gauze, it is impreg- 
nated with the antiseptic solutions at this point. 

16. Packed into containers. 

17. Sterilization (steam vacuum). 

18. Bacteriological tests. 



38 



RED CROSS NOTES 



THE MANUFACTURE OF SURGI- 
CAL DRESSINGS 

The following article originally ap- 
peared as an editorial in the Pharma- 
ceutical Era, The ideas expressed are 
so trite that the editorial is here re- 
produced : 

Surgical cleanliness is a very different 
thing from ordinary cleanliness, and this 
surgical cleanliness must characterize 
every step in treatment, and all the ma- 
terials and instruments used; steriliza- 
tion is the watch cry. If success then de- 
pends upon this extreme cleanliness, the 
question naturally arises how it is to be 
best attained. The surgeon will secure 
the proper surroundings for the patient, 
he will see that the field of operation be 
suitably prepared, that his instruments 
and the hands of himself and assistants 
be in the proper condition. All these 
things are attended to at the time, but 
the dressings to be applied, the ban- 
dages, gauzes, sponges, etc., present an 
entirely different problem. To whom 
should the preparation of these be en- 
trusted — ^to the physician, the pharmacist 
or the manufacturer? This question 
has been raised by surgical authorities 
in recent discussions. We believe that 
as a rule it is inexpedient and inadvis- 
able to lay this duty upon either the 
doctor or druggist, but that it is best 
confined to the manufacturer, who alone 
can give that attention and care which 
are imperatively called for. 

The doctor's office is not the proper 
place to prepare aseptic dressings. His 
furniture is in constant contact with the 
clothing and persons of patients carry- 
ing infection of every sort. The carpets 
are filled with pest laden dust. If we 
look into his laboratory we often find 
a worse condition, tables, shelves, books 
and apparatus spattered with debris 
from urinal examinations, pus from foul 
sores, blood stains, etc. Before he at- 
tempts to prepare aseptic dressings, his 
premises should be cleansed and disin- 
fected. 

When dressings are prepared by the 
pharmacist, the work is generally per- 
formed in the drug store back room. 
This place comes far short of the condi- 
tions known as surgical cleanliness. The 
chemically clean graduate is still unclean 
in the eye of the surgeon. ^ Counters 
covered with vegetable and animal drugs 
of all sorts and kinds are not suitable 



places upon which to place absorbent 
gauze. Street and store dust, spatter- 
ings of syrups, extracts, oils and decoc- 
tions create a favorable lodging apd 
breeding place for organic life. These 
are not wanted in surgical dressings. 
The pharmacist, though ordinarily clean 
in person and habits, familiar with soap 
and water, is far from aseptic. Like the 
physician, he is constantly in contact 
with infection through the person of his 
patrons. There must be a radical change 
of environment before the pharmacist 
can attain success in aseptic technique, 
though he may perhaps rightfully claim 
conditions and facilities that are above 
those of the ordinary physician. 

The facilities of the manufacturer, 
whose whole organization is adapted to 
the production of surgical dressings, are 
certainly more perfect than those of the 
surgeon, to whom such work is inci- 
dental. The environment of a room 
from which pathogenic organisms and 
septic matter are entirely excluded, is 
superior to that obtained in the hospital 
or in the doctor's office. The room in 
which no work is undertaken except the 
handling of aseptic material, will cer- 
tainly be nearer surgically clean than 
one to which infection has constant ac- 
cess. Persons whose only calling is that 
of preparing surgical material, who have 
been schooled in the principles underly- 
ing the infection and disinfection of 
dressings, are probably more competent 
to handle dressings than the doctor's 
student or his attendants, to whom such 
work is necessarily relegated. In this 
work, as in many other instances, prop- 
erly constituted apparatus is more effi- 
cient, more cleanly and more perfect 
than hard work. 

To the manufacturer and dispensing 
pharmacist is due the credit of having 
made possible the universal application 
of the principles of modern siirgery. 
They have supplied to the practitioner 
in the most remote regions, appliances 
as perfect as those used in the greater 
hospital centers. They have placed in 
the hands of the practitioner applianfces 
that fulfill every requirement of the 
advanced art of surgery. 

The preparation, selling and dispens- 
ing of medicinal and surgical supplies to 
the doctor, to the surgeon, and to the 
public belongs to pharmacy. Their ap- 
plication is the province of the practi- 
tioner of medicine and surgery. 



CROSS NOTES 



JOHNSON & JOHNSON AND 
ABSORBENT COTTON 

The discoveries of Lister may be said 
to have revolutionized surgery. While 
the methods now pursued differ greatly 
in details to those pursued by Lister, 
still the fundamental principles are the 
same. As Lister's ideas came to be un- 
derstood, experiments began with vari- 
ous sorts of materials as dressings. 

Lister first used non-absorbent cotton 
and non-absorbent gauze, his early trials 
being about the year 1880. It was soon 
found that what was needed was a 
purified cotton, and the introduction of 
the substance known as absorbent cotton 
wool proved to be the cause of marked 
advances in surgical dressing. 

Inseparably connected with all these 
advances were the efforts of Johnson & 
Johnson. They entered into business in 
1886, just at the time when cotton was 
gaining general notice by the surgeon, 
and they gained prominence at the start 
through a notable improvement by them 
in the method oi putting up absorbent 
cotton. This improvement was the roll- 
ing of cotton in layers with alternate 
wrappings of tissue paper. Instead of 
wads the surgeon was given a handy roll 
from which he could easily take the 
amount needed. The effect of this im- 
provement was incalculably great, and 
may be aptly illustrated by the fact that 
in 1886 the absorbent cotton used in 
surgery was possibly a little over two 
hundred pounds ; the consumption raised 
rapidly until in 1898, and at the time of 
the Spanish War, it was estimated at 



three million pounds. At the present 
time the consvimplion is estimated at 
somewhere from six to ten million 

The ascendency gained by Johnson & 
Johnson at the start has never been lost. 
TTiey have ever been foremost among 
the makers of surgical dressings. The 
value of the services of Johnson & John- 
son to surgery in respect to absorbent 
cotton and dressings made of cotton 
cannot be over-estimated. The educa- 
tive value of their first booklet "Mod- 
ern Methods of Antiseptic Wound 
Treatment," published in 1887, was 
alone sufficient to earn for them the 
lasting gratitude of the world of 
surgery. 

Their growth since that time has been 
steady. In twenty-five years, from a 
very small beginning, there has arisen 
an establishment which is a fair sized 
industrial village. 



COTTON 
Henry W. Grady once said of cotton : 
"The world waits in attendance upon its 
growth. The shower that falls whis- 
peringly on its leaves is hes'd around 
the world. The sun that shines upon it 
is tempered by (he prayers of all the 
people. The frost that chills it and the 
dew that descends from the skies are 
noted, and the trespass of a little worm 
on its green leaf is more to Great 
Britain than the advance of the Russian 
army upon her Asiatic outposts. Its 
fibre is current in every bank." 



Cotton weboute where raw c 



40 



RED CROSS NOTES 



STANDARD SURGICAL DRESS- 
INGS 

The work of Johnson & Johnson in 
raising the standard of surgical dress- 
ings and thus contributing to the ad- 
vance of the art of surgery, is well ex- 
emplified in 'the many improvements 
which they have made in the preparation 
of surgical dressings, and especially 
those into which cotton fibre enters as a 
component part. 

The highest type of surgical dressing 
is illustrated by the many forms of sur- 
gical gauze, Linton moist gauze, absorb- 
ent cotton and numerous other dressings 
which have been devised, improved and 
perfected through the efforts of Johnson 
& Johnson. 

Among the many improvements made 
by them, the following may be worthy 
of special mention: 

The substitution of automatic machin- 
ery for hand work in all operations con- 
nected with the preparation of material 
for wound-dressmg — 

The adoption of sterilized and asep- 
tible apparatus in the place of manual 
manipulation — 

The changing of intermittent methods 
of preparing surgical material to that 
of continuous processes, whereby dress- 
ings are kept under aseptic conditions 
and subjected to repeated sterilization 
during the entire time of their prepara- 
tion — 

The substitution of operatives espe- 
cially trained in surgical cleanliness for 
unskilled labor — 

The application of the principles, rules 
and systems of aseptic technique in the 
preparation of surgical material in the 
laboratory — 

The perfection of processes whereby, 
in the preparation of surgical material, 
dirt, dust and bacteria are removed, ex- 
cluded and destroyed — 

The introduction of methods for 
packing and hermetically sealing sur- 
gical dressing material after being freed 
from bacteria, in a manner that would 
admit of their being handled in com- 
merce and dispensed without risk or 
contamination — 

The perfection of packages for sur- 
gical dressing material that could be 
opened by the surgeon and a portion of 
the dressing removed without contam- 
ination — 

The production of antiseptic and 



aseptic sterilized dressings, which were 
distributable through commerce — 

The adoption of steam sterilization, 
vacuum pressure sterilization and for- 
maldehyd vapor sterilization for sur- 
gical dressings. 

This work in its entirety produced a 
new era in the manufacture of surgical 
dressings, in the course of which build- 
ings and rooms were built, fitted up and 
solely adapted to the purpose of pro- 
ducing surgical material therein. 

The Red Cross Cotton Mills, consist- 
ing of a series of laboratories, are the 
largest surgical dressing factories in the 
world. 

It is probable that no other manufac- 
turer has contributed a share such as 
Johnson & Johnson's to the progressive 
evolution of the last twenty-five years. 
They have transformed the whole char- 
acter of dressings supplied for surgical 
use. By a most thorough observance of 
every rule of scientific surgery, by close 
attention to every mechanical improve- 
ment they have been able to lead the 
way to the preparation of surgical dress- 
ings which are universally acknowledged 
by the leaders of the professions, to 
have, in the last two decades, revolu- 
tionized the art of surgery. 

A few of the standard products of 
Johnson & Johnson are illustrated on 
the cover pages of this issue. These 
few are truly typical and representative 
of surgical dressings for which Johnson 
& Johnson have made the standard, 
raised the standard, and will endeavor 
to maintain the standard. 



THE LOOM 



The history of the evolution of the 
loom from a mechanical viewpoint is 
unsurpassed by any other stories of pa- 
tience and achievement. Unless it is 
the invention of the printing press, 
nothing has given rise to more important 
results than the invention of the spin- 
ning and weaving machinery. This ma- 
chinery has made the cheapest and best 
materials that are provided by nature 
available to the ordinary uses of man- 
kind. 

The period of spinning and weaving 
machinery introduction in England is 
the boundary line of industrial condi- 
tions between the old type and the mod- 
ern type of manufacturing. 



RED CROSS NOTES 
PACKING THE RED CROSS DRESSINGS 



of white 


enamel a 


nd pUte gU 


The 


departme 




distinct! 


c of the Red Cross C 


is slnick 




cleanliness 






otton mill; 




versed in 


the funds 






ctions as U 


chaneed 


for wash 




which e 


ver all th 


e main poin 






Ihc packin 


Sllbi«t(d to the 


ne filial and 



< of (he aKplic rooms. The wall 
:s are made of glau and enameli 
Ushed are probably more than a 
Every visitor, if he carries away 



t dothing is 



RED CROSS Nores 
CLEANLINESS-CONTENTMENT 



The Icwte 






11 


n ghow> IL 


portion of the 


ki 


Chen where lunche. are 


ctine and 








lhe» Ubo 


aiories 








-St way to 








through h 
. well-light 


ealthy, 
d rooii 


happy a 


nd 












factories. 


Thii. 


dgether 






res the per 






o 


their products. 









RED CROSS NOTES 



43 



LINTON MOIST GAUZE 
A Quarter of a Century of Success- 
ful Use 

The universal application of the prin- 
ciples of modern surgery, it is con- 
ceded, is due to Linton Moist Dressings. 
Probably no other single article has 
been an equally important factor with 
this type of dressing in the progress of 
surgery in the last twenty years. To-day 
in every land, in every clime and in 
every corner of the globe, Linton Moist 
Dressings are sold, commended and 
used. 

Certain facts in the history of Linton 
Moist Dressings are remarkable in con- 
nection with the rapid evolution of sur- 
gical methods during the same number 
of years. 

From the time of their first manufac- 
ture the sale of Linton Moist Gauze has 
increased. Many most successful sur- 
geons have "used the dressings constantly 
all these years. In all the modifications 
of surgical technique, in all the attempts 
to abandon chemical antiseptics, and in 
all the adoption of asepsis to the exclu- 
sion of antisepsis, Linton Moist Dress- 
ings have held their place. The applica- 
tion of antiseptic methods, except in 
large hospitals imder exceptional condi- 
tions, was considered impracticable when 
the manufacture of these dressings was 
first conceived. From the first use of 
these dressings it became possible to 
apply the principles of antiseptic surgery 
anywhere and everywhere. More than 
this, these dressings have kept pace with 
the continuous progress of the art of 
surgery. Antisepsis has developed into 
its highest form — asepsis; or rather 
antisepsis has made asepsis possible. 

Keeping pace with surgical evolution, 
Linton Moist Dressings have become 
aseptic. This was accomplished when 
the original forms of Linton Dressings 
were made into Sterilized Antiseptic 
Dressings. The bringing of this about 
has necessitated the erection and equip- 
ment of laboratories for the sole pur- 
pose of making surgically clean dress- 
ings. The training of operatives in 
asepsis, the subjection of the finished 
dressings in their containers to steam 
sterilization, and sealing them during 
the sterilization process followed as nat- 
ural items in manufacture. The pack- 
apfe of dressing and the method of pack- 
ing it have kept pace with all of these 
changes. 



Linton Moist Gauze Dressings are 
packed in glass jars of a convenient, 
usable form, hermetically sealed. A por- 
tion of the dressing can be removed 
without contaminating the remainder. A 
quite recent innovation has been the 
adoption of physiological salt solution 
in place of water for moistening the 
dressings. 

Altogether, Linton Moist Gauze 
Dressings possess a remarkable history 
of nearly twenty-five years of success. 
The underlying principles upon which 
these dressinirs were first made, still re- 
main, in the face of the drastic changes 
of surgical procedure. They have been 
modified and amplified to meet the ad- 
vancing needs of surgery, until to-day 
they stand firmly entrenched as the most 
perfect antiseptic dressings yet produced. 



COMMERCIAL SIDE OF THE RED 
CROSS COTTON MILLS 

The laboratories in the Red Cross 
Cotton Mills are equipped with appara- 
tus which handles a great amount of 
material and handles it more economi- 
cally and successfully than has hereto- 
fore been possible. There results a sav- 
ing in the cost of the labor of handling, 
which means more than a lowering of 
price. The ultimate result is a higher 
grade article for the same price. 

Starting with raw cotton, improved 
methods are used for removing dirt, 
leaves, sand, short and dead fibres. And 
improved methods of cleansing are used 
to prevent the cutting, tearing and 
breaking of delicate fibres. Improved 
methods of carding and spinning reduce 
the loss of strength, loss of elasticity 
and other vital and important properties 
of the cotton. 

Examination and tests show that the 
absorbent cotton fibres and the fibres 
which make up the individual threads of 
surgical gauze prepared under these 
methods, have qualities of elasticity, 
absorbency, strength and working value, 
from a surgical standpoint, from two to 
ten times greater than cotton fibres pro- 
duced by any other method. Hence com- 
parison of the products of this mill with 
those of other mills cannot be made by 
counting the threads, by examination as 
to the property of sinking in water, by 
any other superficial method, nor by the 
price. 



44 



RED CROSS NOTES 



RED CROSS STANDARD COTTON 

The difference between the absorbent 
cotton used by surgeons twenty-five 
years ago — a yellow, dirty, half absorb- 
ent wad — and the perfect product of to- 
day is hard to realize. The so-called 
absorbent cotton of that time was of 
little use to a surgeon; to-day it would 
be considered as utterly valueless. If 
absorbent cotton had remained exactly 
where it was when Johnson & Johnson 
began its production, it would never have 
become an article of importance, either 
in surgery or commerce 

The rise of absorbent cotton in com- 
merce, and the importance which it has 
attained in surgery and the arts, is due 
largely, if not solely to the efforts of 
Johnson & Johnson. They raised the 
standard and have kept it up. They 
made cotton clean, white and absorbent. 
They invented the system whereby it 
Avas made into sheets with a layer of 
tissue paper between each sheet of cot- 
ton. This at once made it an article 
convenient to use, and its consumption 
increased many fold. 

They surrounded its manufacture with 
surgically clean and aseptic conditions, 
and sterilized the product. They erected 
buildings along surgical lines for the 
preparation of surgical cotton and sur- 
gical dressings made of cotton. 

They trained employees in the art of 



asepsis, and introduced systems that 
transformed the whole character of ab- 
sorbent cotton. They made as a stand- 
ard a perfected and sterilized product 
of absolutely pure cellulose fibre. 

A typical and crowning feature of their 
improvement in absorbent cotton was 
the form of packing introduced in their 
Red Cross Cotton as illustrated on the 
first page of this issue. This feature 
consists in completely encasing the cot- 
ton in tissue paper in such a way that 
the cotton is entirely protected from ex- 
posure to infection. In this encasement 
the cotton cannot become infected with- 
out breaking open the package. The 
cotton can be removed from its con- 
tainer and the portions cut from it with- 
out infecting the remainder. 

The improvements made by Johnson 
& Johnson, as illustrated in thfeir prod- 
uct Red Cross Cotton, at once placed 
them at the forefront in the world of 
surgical dressings. 

They have also led the way in the im- 
provement of the product. If they es- 
tablished a standard they have main- 
tained it. 

Red Cross Cotton to-day is known, 
used and wanted in every country in the 
world. It is the standard for the world's 
production — a standard which is imitated 
and striven for, but which stands in a 
class by itself. Red Cross Cotton is the 
world's standard. 



STERILIZATION 

Sterilization is applied to all surgical dressings in the Red Cross 
Mills. This includes cotton, gauze, bandages, etc. This process is 
one which marks the culminating point of the surgical dressing 
industry. 

Goods within their final containers are placed in a great iron 
chamber which is fitted with apparatus for exhausting the air, and 
the chamber is connected with a steam supply for the generation of 
formaldehyd gas. First, the air is exhausted to allow the sterilizing 
agent full access to the goods; then, the temperature within the 
chamber is raised until it is far above the point at which condensation 
is possible. At this temperature the chamber is filled with formal- 
dehyd gas, and formaldehyd is the most powerful and effective 
chemical sterilizing agent that is known. 

Some of the apparatus used in sterilization is shown on the 
next page. 



BED CROSS NOTES 
SOME OF THE STERILIZERS 



>n pTOceu is under bacleriolofical control. Johnson & Johnaon were tfae first 
itroduce sleriliicd surgical dressings. 



46 RED CROSS NOTES 



THE ASEPTIC-PROTECTING WRAPPING 

Red Cross Cotton is made of carefully selected fibre in a surgi- 
cal diessing laboratory. 

The processes insure perfect absorbency and absolute sterility. 

The result of a quarter of a century of study of cotton for 
surgical uses. 

Peculiar to Red Cross Cotton is the form of wrapping shown 
here. (See also cover pages.) 

This wrapping forms a complete encasing of the cotton in 
tissue paper in such a way that it is entirely protected from exposure 
to infection whether in or out of carton. 

The cotton cannot become infected without breaking open the 
carton and then the paper. 

The cotton can be removed from its carton and portions cut 
from it without infecting the remainder. 

Red Cross Cotton is to-day the standard for the world's pro- 
duction — a standard which is imitated and striven after, but which 
stands in a class by itself. 

Red Cross Cotton is the world's standard. 

In ordering specify Red Cross Cotton. 



RED CROSS NOTES 



THE FAMOUS ROLL 

THE FAMOUS WRAPPING 

THE FAMOUS COTTON 



Our Method of Wrapping Ma«n» Common Way of Wrappinf Mean* 

RED CROSS COTTON ABSORBENT COTTON 

Surgically Sterile. Du«t and Dirt in a condition that when opened, enda 

Proof. Infection Prevented. of packafe are ezpoied and cotton 

B I ] . . I I J I . liable to infection, cauains lurseoni 

Package ends protected ezeludes dual, . -« ■ 

femu or contact with foreign aub- 

ASEPSIS POSITIVELY ASSURED SERIOUS INFECTION 

Surgeona cannot afford to uie, nor ., , < , ,■ . 

, . „ , ., ■' uaod in delicate operaliona. 
can dmggiata aeli any other, if per- 
fect cotton ia deaired. The coat ia OUR METHOD COSTS YOU NO 
no more than the other kind. MORE 



RED CROSS NOTES 



R«d CroH Cotton ii put up in tha following uzaa: 

ONE POUND TWO OUNCES 

HALF POUND ONE OUNCE 

QUARTER POUND HALF OUNCE 

Each roll completely encaaed in tiiiiie paper. 

Entirelf protected from dirt, duit or infection whether in or out of the carton. 

SPECIFY RED CROSS COTTON 



PRODUCTS OF THE RED CROSS COTTON MILL 



:*Pure Coiion * 







I 
I 



•TOMOC WAWEMOUtl 




FACTORIES AND LABORATORIKS OF JOHNSON A JOHNSON, NEW BRUNSWICK, N. J , U. S. A. 
THE LARGEST AND MOST COMPLETE PLANT IN THE , WORLD. 35 BUILDINGS WITH SOO.OOO SQUAl 
FEET {/ J acres) FLOOR SPACE: 1,000 OPERATIVES. OUTPUT PER YEAR: S5*O00^OOO, YARDS 
SURQICAL OAUZE: 3,000,000 POUNDS ABSORBENT COTTON t 90,000,000 POROUS 
PLASTERS: RAW COTTON FIBRE CONSUMED 3,000,000 POUNDS 



PRODUCTS OF THE RED CROSS COTTON MILL 




RID CROM COTTON 





G* Linton + 



iov 



^^bs 



2 IN 



CH^ 



PLAIN ^ 




&^ 




ii LINTON if 

PUm - sTE«ins> 

21HCHESXI0YA 
IN 

SEAUEDCaWDlS 

3cW)n4|uft«AOi 



-»>,-, - — ■ 



I / Series VII. / Kumier Tliree 

i /Red (£0SS 

(7 NEW BRUNSWICK,(7 N. J.. U.S.A. 



A few important things 



A n«w and verj 
hMidy packase. 



Sealed cylinder packets for 

Bandages afford perfect protection. 



LUler'c Fumlsalor 
Bive* nearly one hun- 
dred p«r c«nl. efficient 
dWnfcctioD. 



One of the hicher type of product* 

from the Red Croia CoUon MilU. 



Test for Yourself 

Test oui catgut for yourself, using any of the following me^Kxls 
or methods of your own. We know that any one of them will give you 
absolute and continued confidence in the integrity and sterility of our 
ligatures. 

I — Put them in a test-tube contaitiing nutrient bouillon and 
observe die result — no growth. 

2 — Test them clinically by imbedding in woimded tissue. This 

test is made annually millions of times all over the world by the most 

prominent surgeons in the best hospitals, 

and in private practice with uniformly 

satisfactory results. 

3 — Reason it out: 

This is the way our ligatures are 
prepared. 

We begin at the slaughter house. 
The immediate disinfection and cleans- 
ing of the separated tissue. 

Cleansing and disinfection of each fibre 
before twisting into strands. 

Handling of the strings under aseptic 
conditions. 

Final sterilization and packing. 
Tube coniuning Duiiient IwuilloD into The processes are conducted under 
Which a itTaiul □( catgut hai been pliced i . - i - i i i . . 
b. todng. bactenological check tests. 

^^^^^■■^^^^^^^^i^B*^^ A cord made up of 

Bactcriolooicai Test Na. %ii I , ,, > ... 

s«inpi«iR)ii>tniiiiisriititurciti»«bHntaicd| healthy, normal ammal tis- 



wwrBwtenotofictllBbsrManHviahuriditenla. ■ -I' I ^ J 

WU«w*4X»ow I sue, stenlized, asephc, and 

" unchanged in character. 

Let us send you a sample of Red Cross Catgut and our "Handbook 
of Ugatures." 

JOHNSON & JOHNSON 

New Brunswick, N. J.. U. S. A. 



RED CROSS NOTES 



COPYRIGHT 1914 BY JOHNSON & JOHNSON 



Series VII New Brunswick, N. J. Xumiikr Three 



RED CROSS NOTES 
Published by Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, X. J., U. S. A. 

Fred B. Kilmer, Editor 

This publication is issued from the laboratories of the publishers with the intent to 
give, in brief, items of interest and reports of original research along the line of the 
particular branches of the art in which they labor. 

Persons receiving Red Cross Notes will confer a favor by notifying the publishers of 
any inaccuracy in the address on the wrapper and of any change of their address. 



An Humble Apology 

From the beginning the issues of these Notes have been ir- 
regular. Of late the issues have been infrequent. 

If necessary many excuses might be offered for this omission. 

In lieu of more frequent numbers of the Notes, our Scientific 
Department has sent out numerous monographs and pamphlets cover- 
ing subjects usually treated in the Notes. 

On the whole the profession does not lack literature ; it reaches 
them plentiful in quantity — of all sorts and kinds. 

This issue might be called an "odds and ends" number. lis 
message is manifold. Some of the products, not heretofore de- 
scribed in these pages, are noted. 

Yearly several thousand new practitioners enter the field, for 
whose benefit it is necessary to repeat some things that have gone 
before. For this new race, and for the older ones who may have 
forgotten, there is given some "bits of history." 

Many former readers have written expressions of their anxiety 
for more frequent issues of our publication. In response to such 
requests we have put together these pages. 

We believe that all will find herein some items worth reading. 



so 



Some Bits of History 



Only thos© who *lif¥^ 1iv«d through 
the last two or tTlrce decades of medi- 
cine, surgery and pharmacy can fully 
appreciate the revolution and evolution 
that has taken place within these years. 

If the greatest of the world's teach- 
ers and savants, who died before 1887, 
should suddenly return to life they 
would not be able to read the journals 
or the text-books of the present day. If 
they were suddenly to step into a mod- 
ern clinic, or to a meeting of an Asso- 
ciation, they would wonder if they had 
landed in some unknown world. 

Johnson & Johnson began in business 
in 1886; in 1887 they became a corpo- 
ration. This period has been particu- 
larly momentous and interesting. Events 
have followed each other with bewil- 
dering rapidity. In this brief span the 
world has witnessed some of the great- 
est advances since the dawn of history. 
Within this time science has poured out 
revelations which cannot be enumer- 
ated. 

Almost beyond compute are the ad- 
vances made in these few years in me- 
chanical appliances, in the diffusion of 
knowledge, in the improvement of the 
conditions of life — political, social, 
moral and material. The race has made 
rapid strides. 

In one of their publications Johnson 
& Johnson have reviewed some of the 
stages in their history from which the 
following is abstracted: 

IN THE BEGINNING 

In 1886 there were quite as many 

plaster makers as there are today. Plas- 
ters of the diachylon and pitch type were 
in use. The Johnsons had done pioneer 
work in the manufacture of pharma- 
ceutical plasters with an India rubber 
base. They concluded when they en- 
tered the field that rather than contest 
for the trade of others already estab- 
lished they would create a place for 
themselves and then attempt to fill it; 
they would strive to supply commodi- 



ties new in use and purpose, or which 
had been imperfectly made or difficult 
to obtain — "to make an old thing in a 
better way or else a new thing that is 
better than the old." 

And from that time to the present, 
every year has repeated the story of 
some improvement in the plaster mass 
or the make and method of spreading, 
the form of packing, or some other 
change, something new. 

Just prior to the days of Johnson & 
Johnson, a number of important events 
occurred in the history of mankind. 
Pasteur had overthrown the doctrine of 
spontaneous generation. A few mi- 
crobes of disease had been caught and 
convicted. Out of the researches into 
wine and beer the science of bacteriolo- 
gy had its birth. Then came Lister with 
an attempt to clean the Aegean stables 
of wound infection with rivers of car- 
bolic acid. From Lister's great con- 
ception was born modern surgery. 

Lister's results and ideas were re- 
ceived with both welcome and scorn. 

A feature of the first years of the era 
was the introduction of new antiseptics. 
The list of surgical antiseptics noted, as 
in use in 1895, numbered nearly five 
hundred. 

The strength of antiseptics used in 
those days stands as a marked contrast 
to the present practice. The first meth- 
ods required the use of cumbersome ap- 
paratus and processes, so that details 
could only be carried out by experienced 
surgeons. 

The dressings obtainable by the great 
bulk of practitioners were, for the most 
part, unreliable or unusable and, in con- 
sequence, the application of Listerism 
was hampered by the lack of proper 
and easily obtained dressing material. 

To meet this need Johnson & Johnson 
devised a system of dressings that ful- 
filled the demand of the best surgical 
practice under the then new Listerian 
system. It is acknowledged that the in- 
troduction of Johnson & Johnson's 
dressings marked the real beginning of 
antiseptic surgery in this country. This 
the Johnsons did at the time when many 
of the profession were still in doubt 
about accepting the theory and doctrine 
of antiseptics. 

An important point which character- 
ized the dressings prepared by Johnson 



Bits of Hutoiy 



& Johnson at that time was their being 
packed in a manner that made it possi- 
ble to distribute them through ihe drufi 
trade without contaminating the dress- 
ings by handling or climatic changes. 
They were prepared so that they would 
reach surgeons at most remote points 
in perfect condition. And they were 



time every effort has been made to keep 

abreast of the times in the advancement 
of the art and practice of surgery. At 
the end of ten years the word "asepsis" 
became engrafted into the language and 
into the practice of surgery. Johnson 
& Johnson had introduced sterilized 
dressings. 



Books J 






n& Joh 



I, 1887-1897. 



prepared in a form so simple that any 
one could secure and use them. The 
packages were constructed so that sur- 
geons could, when necessary, remove a 
portion of the dressing without 
nating the remainder. 



Chemical sieriliiation and mechanical 
cleanliness are among I he newer weap- 
ons that have been called to the aid of 
surgery. Antiseptic dressings have been 
made surgically clean. Antisepsis has 
not been abandoned, but has developed 



As the goods and their uses were 
entirely new. the question of introdu- 
cing them to the profession involved no 
small expenditure of labor and money. 

At the beginning of the year 1890 
Johnson & Johnson goods had become 
known throughout the United State 5 
and in foreign countries. Since that 



into its higher form ; asepsis, and anti- 
septic processes have become aseptic. 

For the production of dressings suited 
to the requirements of surgery, John- 
son & Johnson have established a series 
of laboratories, planned and built for 
the sole purpose of making surgically 
clean, aseptic dressings. 



Bits of History 



i.)n of 



The processes employed in tV 
oratories fcjr llic prnciical applic 
■scientific knowledge is llie ouli 
the application and amplifications of 
procedures brouglit about by llie evolu- 
tion ot surgery. — Extract from "Asep- 
sis Secundum Artem," 1897. 

This, in brief, is the humble pari 
laken hy Johnson Sc Johnson in the pro- 
duction of surgical dressings from the 



lion itself. They are stamped upon 
every article which Johnson & Johnson 
make. They are familiar marks to user; 
of this make of wares. 

These idetttifying marks mean somp- 
I'hing'. Placed upon a package, they are 
like a signature upon a bond. They 
identify the origin, the integrity, the 
value of the contents. They guarantee 
the article which they accotnpany to be 






met had of manufaclur 



THE COVER PAGES 

The pages which cover this issue of 

Red Cross Notes are worthy of study. 

For one thing, there is pictured some 
of the staple and some of the new prod- 
ucts of the house. These are shown in 
their actual, natural colors — facsimiles 
of the packages themselves. The delin- 
eation is our own handiwork (J. & J. 
Print Shop). 

Then we have the characteristic bas- 
ket border, the peculiar script signature, 
Johnson & Johnson and the Red Cross. 
These marks are as old as the institu- 



of the highest ([uality and workmanship. 

In the minds of the medical and sur- 
gical profession over the entire globe 
these marks insure confidence. Tlicse 
marks fix a standard which every work- 
er of the company must live up to. 

Wherever these marks appear upon 
a package they stand as a guarantee that 
the article is precisely what it is repre- 
sented to be. 

To old friends these marks are famil- 
iar symbols. 

Those to whom the goods are new 
may take them up with full faith and 
confidence. 

The basket horder, the peculiar s^na- 
ture of Johnson & Johnson, and the Red 
Cross will always he the symbol of 
highest quality and integrity. 



Confidence 

Without complete confidence in his catgut the surgeon feels a 
certain worry that is ever present while he operates. 

If his catgut is too brittle it often breaks at the knot. 

If it is not strong he must use larger strands than he cares to. 

If not strong he does not trust it and may not put enough 
pressure at the knot causing a poor tie — then the ligature slips. 

If the second knot does not lie flaj on the first throw, it may 
become united later. 



ETtry lot of catgut in J. 6 J. Laboratories is leslfd in nntrient bniiillon before sending out. 

It is almost impossible to tie a good knot with brittle catgut, 
because the gut is not soft enough to allow flat knots. They either 
become untied or the surgeon breaks his catgut in trying to bring 
the second knot down tightly against the first. 

Catgut must be sterile — ^biit if there is trouble at the knot the 
surgeon can never have full confidence in it. 

Johnson & Johnson begin sterilizing the raw lamb's gut before 
it is twisted into a suture. The twisted material is sterilized again 
in the tube after the tube is sealed. It is soft and pliable and to an 
expert, the very feel of it indicates that it will "rim even" while 
tying a knot. 

Our gut is sterile before twisting, after twisting, and remains 
sterile in the tube. 

Samples will be sent upon request. 

JOIIXSOX & JOIIXSOX, 

New Brunswick, N. J., U. S. A. 



54 

FROM COTTON WOOL TO AB- 
SORBENT COTTON 

Storm clouds f^lhered in the middle 
of the last century when it was proposed 
to use cotton fiber and cotton wadding 
or batting as a coveriiw for wounds. 

Pungent strictures, bickerings, ana- 
themas were hurled against the pro- 
pounders. No one listened to Touraine, 
who suggested a hydrophile cotton. 



Red Cross Notes 



tissue paper between the layer'. This 
simple device was of the highest value 
in popularizing the use of absorbent 
cotton. It was the work of Mr. James 
W. Johnson, now president of Johnson 
& Johnson, 

It is a matter of common acceptance 
that Johnson & Johnson have introduced 
improvements whereby the absorbing 
power, whiteness, elasticity and all the 



'"cklrxtrthii 



When Listerism came, wounds were 
covered with tow, oakum, jute, cotton 
wadding, cheese-cloth and what not 
soaked in carbolic acid. 

Somebody began to make cotton that 
would absorb liquids. 

Absorbent cotton made its appearance 
in trade about 1877. With the advance- 
ment of surgical methods it was recog- 
nized as an important article. 

In 1881 the price ranged from one to 
two dollars per pound. 

When absorbent cotton first came 
into use it was supplied in the form of 
wads, or masses of inconvenient shape. 
It is safe to say that almost as impor- 
tant as absorbent cotton was the inven- 
tion of putting it Up in a way that made 
it convenient for the surgeon to handle, 
viz., rolling the cotton into sheets with 



desirable qualities of absorbent cotton 
have been increased. 

The progressive labors of Johnson & 
Johnson in perfecting absorbent cotton 
have often been described. One of the 
earliest issues of Red Cross Notes gives 
the following : 

"From the beginning of Johnson & 
Johnson's manufacture of surgical 
dressings they have held that as ab- 
sorbent cotton is to be used for wound 
dressing it must be made and marketed 
fit for the most delicate uses of sur- 
gery. 

"They have raked the earth for the 
best processes and the best employees 
to carry out this idea. They have built 
buildings, fitted up rooms better than 
thope in (he finest hospitals, trained op- 
established bacteriological and 



Red Cross Notei 



i) 



dietnicai latoratones. The outfit for 
making surgically dean absorbent cot- 
ton and dressings has cost them no end 
of time, energy and money to bring it 
to its present high state of perfection." 

In 1900 the erection of a cotton lab- 
oratory for the sole purpose of supply- 
ing cotton for surgical uses, together 
with the equipment of these buildings, 
and the installation of machinery and 
apparatus on the lines of a modern hos- 
pital, was conceded to be an important 
event in the surgical world. These 
buildings are cotton mills of the most 
advanced type. At the same time, they 
are surgical laboratories. They were 
the first factories in the world where 
raw cotton was transformed into sur- 
gical dressings in accordance with the 
teachings of modern science. The in- 
fluence of this work has been felt 
wherever cotton is used in surgery. 

Very important was the introduction 
of absorbent cotton fiber. The typical 
and crowning feature, however, was 
the improvement in packing, whereby 
the cotton is completely encased in 
tissue paper in a way that entirely pro- 
tects it from exposure to infection. This 
latest improvement places absorbent 
cotton in the highest rank for use in 
surgery and in the arts. 

The importance which absorbent cot- 
ton has attained is due largely, if not 
solely, to the efforts of Johnson & John- 
on. It is through their efforts that the 
consumption of absorbent cotton has in- 
creased manifold. To-day Red Cross 
Cotton is used in every country of the 
world. It is the standard for the world's 
product, the standard that is imitated 
and sought for, but which remains in a 
class by itself. 



A RAPID AND SAFE METHOD 

OF LIGATING VESSELS AND OTHER 
BLEEDING POINTS 

The difficulties encountered in tying 
the knots commonly used in surgery, es- 
pecially in deep-seated structures, and 
the causation of secondary hemorrhage 
due to slipping of a ligature, with all 
the unpleasant sequelae, are so well 
known and appreciated that they are the 
object of great concern. 

Dr. M. J. Wunderlich, of Guatemala, 
devised a technic for ligating vessels 
and pedides at once so simple and 



speedy that it deserved Careful consider- 
ation. The procedure is as follows : 

The thread, with a knot already pre- 
pared but still open, is slipped over the 
forceps Or clamp either near the end of 
the forceps, with the edges slightly sep* 




Fig. 1— The first step is the same as in an 
ordinary or overhand knot. It is now grasped 
between the thumb and first finger of the left 
hand at the point marked "A"; and with the 
right hand, the point marked "B" is brought in 
contact with "A," where it is provisionally 
held against the thumb with the third finger 
of the left hand. 

arated and ready to grasp the bleeding 
point, or placed around the forceps near 
the finger rings. The ligature can also 
be previously prepared, leaving a suffi- 
cient loop to enable one to pass it over 
the forceps, from the proximal end, 
without difficulty. 

Figures 1 and 2 show the steps of 
making the knot. 

Figure 3 shows it completed. 

These ligatures should be prepared 
as shown in figure 3 in suflficient num- 
ber before operation so that no time be 
lost. 





No. 2 



No. 3 



Fig. 2 — The two resulting circles are given 
each a half turn to the right, as shown. 

Fig. 3 — Knot completed by placing circle or 
loop "D," over circle "C." (The knot can also 
be made by forming first the loop "C" then 
the loop "D," finishing by a simple or over- 
hand knot over both of them.) 

Attention is drawn to the fact that 
if two or more fingers of each hand are 
inserted into the circles C and D formed 
by the open knot it will be found impos- 
sible to enlarge them no matter what 
force may be applied, while if the ends 
of the threads are drawn a very tight 
knot will result. 



Handy Appliances 
Aseptic Glass Cotton -Font 

with contlnuouj feed, compresseJ coil package of 

~ Dentoform Absorbent Cotton 

A superior grade, long fiber, highly absorbent, 
cotton. This font is particularly adapted to all uses 
where a small (juantity of absorbent cotton is used at 
a time, such as small pledgets in nasal operations. 

The <lesired amoinit of cotton is detached with the 
pliers, using one hand only, and conveyed directly to 
the point of operation. .\ supply of surgically clean 
cotton, in compact form, always at hand without 
preliminary preparatinii. Reloaded with a new pack- 
age in an instant. The inverted cover fits in the top 
of the font and may be used as a tray for pellets. A 
depression on the outside top of cover is for medicating 
dressings. 

Aseptic Glass CoUon-Font loaded witli one package Dentoform Cotton $0.75 

Dentoform Alisorlient Cotton conlinunus feed cylinders per dozen packages... 1.00 

each 10 

Aseptic Glass Dish For Napkins 

A shallow, square glass dish 

made just to take in the six inch 

Aseptic Napkins. Dust proof. 

Keeps the napkins absolutely clean 

and always within convenient reach. 

The Red Cross is enameled on 

the side and the words Aseptic and 

Johnson & Johnson etched in the 

glass. Very attractive in appearance and its many advantages will be 

recognized at once. 

For Six Inch Xapkins each $1.50 

Aseptic Glass Jar 

This jar primarily designed for holding cot- 
Ion <lcnta! rolls is equally valuable as an aseptic 
container for other forms of absorbent dressings, 
sTich as pledgets of cotton, gauze mops, etc., in 
specialty work. 

Hade in two sizes. 
Large Size, 7 in. high x -H in. diam., each S0.95 
Small Size, 3^ in. high x 4i in. diam., each .85 

JOHNSON & JOHNSON, New Brunswick, N. J., U. S. A. 



Red CioEs Notes 



CONTAGIOUS DISEASE 
BULLETINS 
From the Scientific Department of 
Johnson & Johnson, bulletins dealing 
with the treatment of consumption, 
diphtheria and other contagious dis- 
eases of the most prevalent types have 
been issued from time to time. These 
bulletins have now been combined under 
one cover and the complete set is sent 
to any address for a two-cent stamp. 



The well known "Book With a Mis- 
sion" forms a part of this collection. 
This valuable little pamphlet probably 
contains more useful information than 
was ever before stated in so small a 
compass. Starling with an accurate and 
dear description of the way in which 
communicable diseases are spread, the 
book goes on to explain the methods of 
prevention. The simple and complete 
instrunions as to isolation, disinfection 
and general care of the patient make 
tills pamphlet uniquely valuable, and 
we are not surprised that so many physi- 
cians have placed copies of it in the 
hands of their patients. 

Besides a "Book With a Mission" 
there are included under this cover bul- 
letins on consumption, scarlet fever, 
smallpox, typhoid fever, whooping 
cou^h, measles, meningitis, and diph- 
theria. In every case the general 
scheme of the pamphlet is ' " " 



veniability and curability. Then comes 
simple rules as to avoiding the disease 
in question. After this comes directions 
as to the general care of the patient, 
so that his recovery may be hastened 
and so that he may not be a source of 
danger to the community in which he 
resides. In most of these pamphlets 
there are also carefully prepared direc- 
tions as to the disinfection of the pa- 
tient's room after his recovery or death. 
A glance at any of these bulletins is 
.sufficient to convince the reader that 
they are not "Doctor Books" and that 
they cannot in any way induce the pa- 
tient to try to heal himself. Their pur- 
pose is to furnish physicians and boards 
of health with convenient copies of such 
information as they would desire to be 
widely circulated, especially at the time 
of epidemics. Any single bulletin is 
sent free, and the complete set for a 
two-cent stamp. A card of rules for 
the use of nurses and attendants to be 
hung on the wall of the sick room is 
also furnished on request. 



To eat in a hurry and get dyspepsia, 
to marry in a hurry and get a divorce, 
to get religion in a hurry and forget it 
in a hurry, to die in a hurry and go to 
the devil — these: according to a well- 
known artist are the chief acts in the 
life of the modern American business 



THE BURdEON'S HAND - - "HE 

MAKETH THE BUND TO SEE." 

Mary Murdock Mason, in th« Cenlurj-. 

Benealh his wrist there stirs a svin-gocl's 



On liny blade of steel wilh pro 

fraught. 
Vp toward the eye the charged bliii! 

brought. 
Marble. mDonHt. the arched c" 

Tbe"!*!^, lying lakelihe in repose. 

caught. 

"Let there be light," he says— "Lei I 
be liffht." 



Red Cross Notet 



VACCINATION 
By Samuel T. Knaccs, M.D., 
F.R.CS.,I. 
Vaccination not only involves an op- 
eration of making an incision througli 
the skin, but also necessitates impreg- 
nating the wound with an active virus 
so as to infect the suhjcct with a specific 
disease which subsequently modifies any 
future invasion of smallpox that the 
subject may acquire. 

Having availed my c elf of modern 



I consider this latter to be of the g^reat- 
est importance. 

I am indebted to Messrs. Potter and 
Birks, of Grosvenor House, Sydney, 
for introducing to my notice two ad- 
mirable adjuncts for (he antiseptic 
ireatment of vaccinations ; 

1. Johnson's Rubber Mesh Protec- 

2. Mogaze Sterlliied Sponges. 

The first is a sterilized rubber-coated 
netting to be placed over the vaccination 
wounds and to be secured by means of 



improvements in antiseptic surgery 1 
have evolved the following technique for 
vaccinating a large number of people at 

(1) That vaccination be conducted in 
a well lighted and ventilated rooni prop- 
erly sanitated and free from dust, 

(2) To have a door for entrance and 
another for exit. 

(3) On entering, a clerk to take the 
name, age, sex, occupation and residence 
of person to be vaccinated. 

(4) Assistant No. 1— To assist sub- 
ject to undress and expose area of op- 
eration. 

(5) Assistant No. 2— Scrubs the arm 
with soap and hot water. (To use fresh 
swab of cotton wool and separate basin 
of water for each case.) 

(6) Assistant No. 3— Steriliies vac- 
cination area with pure alcohol. 

(7) Vaccinator scariiies selected 
place and applies vaccine. 

(8) Assistant No. 3 covers vaccination 
wound with sterilized protective tissue 
and secures the dressing with a bandage. 



"Z O" adhesive strips auove and below. 
This netting forms a protection to what 
may soon be a suppurating surface and 
prevents whatever dressing that may be 
applied from adhering to the delicate 
tissues or the crusts that may form on 
the vaccination spots. The.se dressings 
can only adhere to the netting and can 
easily be removed without tearing or 
lacerating the tissues which it protects. 
The subject is requested not to remove 
this netting under any circumstances. 
Should suppuration occur, as may hap- 
pen after the first week, the dressitig 
over the netting may be removed, the 
netting then washed with water that has 
been boiled, the part carefully dried and 
then dressed with vaseline spread tipon 
a clean piece of linen, just large enough 
to cover the suppurating surface. This 
cleansing and dressing to be done daily 
if necessary, but under no circumstances 
is the netting to be removed, as doing so 
would lacerate tissues and promote irri- 

The Mogaze Sterilized Sponges are 
small pads made of cotton wool, envel- 
oped in muslin, and make an excellent 
dressing to be applied over the net 
rubber mesh protective. The bulk of 



Red Cross Notes 



59 



this sterilized pad over the vaccination 
area allows of an elastic pressure when 
bandaged on the arm which relieves 
tension when several days later the arm 
may feel swollen and uncomfortable. 
If then the bandage should feel too tight, 
it may be removed and re-applied less 
tightly without the pad being touched. 
Should suppuration occur and make the 
arm feel uncomfortable, the pad may be 
carefully removed and the part washed 
and treated with vaseline dressing as 
directed above. 

Out of 1,050 vaccinations recently con- 
ducted under my personal supervision 
upon the above lines the only bad re- 
sults occurred to those who, through fol- 
lowing the advice of injudicious friends, 
had removed all the dressings and ex- 
posed the wounds to atmospheric in- 
fluences. 

By the method adopted as outlined 
large numbers of persons can be vacci- 
nated under strictly antiseptic precau- 
tions with celerity, and after my assist- 
ants became familiar with their work I 
found it quite possible to vaccinate at 
the rate of one hundred and twenty 
per hour without exercising any undue 
haste and at the same time taking every 
possible care. 



QUALITY AGAINST PRICE 

Upon the reliability of surgical dress- 
ings such as cotton, gauze, bandages, 
lint, lamb's wool and other items such as 
"Z O" adhesive plaster, ligatures and 
sutures, antiseptics, disinfectants, etc., 
depend the life of the patient and the 
success of the surgeon. 

The manufacturer whose goods in this 
line are the most satisfactory is proba- 
bly the one who has been most progres- 
sive. 

It is quite evident that a first-class 
quality of these products cannot be com- 
pared with a lesser qualified line in a 
monetary ratio. 

A statement in a pamphlet issued 
some time since by Johnson & Johnson 
applies with equal force at the present 
time: 

"From the beginning of our experi- 
ence in the manufacture of the products 
produced in our factories and labora- 
tories we have applied ourselves to one 
single effort — the preparation of our 
surgical dressings and all other relative 



products that shall meet the require- 
ments of and embrace advances in the 
art of surgery. While not presuming so 
much as to suggest to a physician or 
surgeon the kind or the make of mate- 
rial he should use in wound dressing, 
we believe that disappointments and 
serious results will follow unless he de- 
mands and uses dressings prepared in a 
manner equal to the methods we em- 
ploy, or according to the art of asepsis." 

It is quite evident that a line of goods 
of this character made up in the labora- 
tories under absolutely aseptic condi- 
tions, sterilized by the latest processes 
and appliances, packed and sealed in the 
most perfect manner to retain their ster- 
ility, cannot be compared with a lesser 
qualified line in a monetary ratio. The 
surgeon of repute is always willing to 
pay the price when he is satisfied he is 
getting high-class necessary supplies at 
a reasonable cost. 



SPECIFY THE BRAND WHEN 
ORDERING 

When purchasing from the wholesale 
or retail druggist such merchandise as 
drugs, fluid extracts, ligatures, tinctures, 
ointments, surgical dressings, tablets, 
soaps, oils, syrups, pills, plasters or 
other requirements, the physician and 
surgeon should specify the brand he 
wants. If he fails to do this there may 
be foisted upon him something that is 
not so pure, soluble, strong, dependa- 
ble, lasting, improved, modern, perfect 
or otherwise lacking. 

It is an easy matter for retailer or 
jobber to buy and carry in stock the 
products of the best manufacture; the 
best manufacturer is the most success- 
ful ; consequently, he has a greater out- 
put, which obliges him to buy larger 
quantities, thereby opening to him a 
market unapproachable to some others. 
He is thus able to buy the best goods 
at the lowest price and get the quickest 
deliveries. When you specify on your 
order to the dealer he recognizes you 
know what you want; he appreciates 
he is there to serve you ; he is obliged 
to carry a first-class stock to command 
your business. 

All this results in equitable and profit- 
able transactions and all participants 
are pleased, satisfied and successful. 



The Doctor and Cleanliness 



Pioneer work in tlisseminating the 
doctrine of cleanliness has always been 
done by physicians of every community. 
All doctors know that without cleanli- 
ness there is disease, hence without soap 
there is no health. 

Most doctors, for sanitary and pro- 




phyUciiL riasons now usl S>nol Soup. 
the antiseptic hquid soap btcause thej 
knon that it stenhzes the skin far bet- 
ter and more certainly than any other 
Hon -injurious preparation. These rea- 
sons alone would suffice to recommend 
Synol Soap to your patients. But there 



are other and many more potent reasons 
why the following suggestions from tiiO 
doctor as to the use of Synol Soap will 



D HEALTH 

lie more than welcome in every home, 
and may help to prevent sickness. 

"The cake of soap is unsanitary. 
Everybody in the house uses it, some 
of the dirt from the hands 
ihe soap, and there you have s 
of soap and dirt, multiplied with each 
se. This may cause dis- 



"Some other person, a stranger or vis- 
itor, may use that same cake of soap: 
perhaps they have a skin disease — a 



sore, or something ; you get it^in fact, 
rub it into your skin with this same 
soap. Is that cleanliness? 

"There may be a contagious disease in 
your house. Your little child has scarlet 
fever, or measles. To enter the sick 
room, or to take care of the patient, 
may not infect you, but your hands may 
carry the disease to others. This is hoiv 
diseases are spread. Washing the hands 
with Synol Soap reduces the chances 
for infection to a minimum. 

"Soap and water are the only two 
things which may^ be used for cleanli- 
ness and sterilization, but the soap must 
he the right kind of soap, and it lies 
within your reach, as well as within a 

Medical and sanitary authorities, 
hoards of health, have deprecated the 
use of the cake soap, and you will find 



Red Cross Notes 



vet7 few public washrooms today thai 
provide cake soap for the people ; we 
therefore maintain that it is equally un- 
sanitary in a home. 

Given a soap which is, to the doctor, 
a valuable cleansing and sterilizing 
agent, it is but reasonable to expect that 



of this well known remedy it was 
home-made article. Gradually it bi 
came a ready-made product of a nun 
ber of manufacturers. Today there ai 
many more mustard plasters of the la 
ter class in use principally because < 
their convenience without any loss i 
the desired effect. 



it will serve the same purpose (o the 
paiienl. Synol Soap can be used wher- 
ever and whenever a soap needs to be 
employed, no matter if it be to wash a 
liaby's skin or sterilize a surgeon's 

!n diluted form it makes an excellent 
mouth wash. It is the most effective 
soap for a shampoo, especially in 
seborrheic conditions of the scalp ; in 
the bath it will cleanse the body thor- 
tiu^hly, open the pores, and destroy bac- 
terial accumulations on the skin sur- 
face, 

Synol Soap does not irritate the skin 
or mucous membrane, is refreshing and 
has the characteristic "clean" odor. 

Being put up in convenient sprinkler 
top bottles, contamination of the unused 
portion is impossible. 

Suggestions such as the above, com- 
mg from the doctor, must be regarded 
seriously by every person, and if fol- 
f olio wed carefully will undoubtedly 
prove helpful to the physician in his 
daily work and hasten the cure of any 
disease in which uncleanliness proves a 
retarding factor. 



For many years mustard poult ici 
were recommended by physicians as 
rubefacient. During the early carei 



It is a well known fact that moist air 
coming into contact with mustard plas- 
ters deteriorates their quality. Damp- 
ness causes a decomposition of the ele- 
ments of the mustard, the essential oil 
is released or destroyed, and the plas- 
ters rendered useless. 

Johnson & Johnson accomplished a 
solution of the difficulties in the prep- 
aration of mustard plasters. A moist- 
ure-proof and easily opened package 
has been produced as a container for 
Red Cross Mustard Plasters. It is a 
round spun metal tube, seamless, with 
no openings to let in any dampness. 
When the lid is placed closely on top it 
gets into contact with a perfect joint — 
metal against metal. 

Johnson & Johnson's Mustard Plas- 
ters are made of the purest and most 
select Italian black mustard seed. In 
their preparation the fatty oils and 
resinous matter are removed, leaving 
only the elements which, when properly 
wet and applied, produce the essential 
purpose of mustard. 

All through the methods of their pro- 
duction every precaution is taken to pro- 
tect them against access of moisture 
and the container is hermetically sealed 
under dry atmosphere. 

The quality of these plasters, together 
with the improved new package, is a 
step in advance. They will remain in 
perfect condition in any climate. Phy- 
sicians will find them fully worthy of 
their specifications whenever oppor- 
tunity occurs. No advance in price. 



Red Cross Notes 



THE OPEN BOOK 
By H. P. Nichols 
The characteristic policy that has ac- 
tuated Johnson & Johnson from their 
earliest days is illustrated in a time- 
worn circular that lies on my desk. Il 
is a reprint from the Pharmaceutical 
Era of April, 1887; its title is "The 
Manufacture of Medicinal Plasters." 



This little reprint is interesting from 
a historical standpoint in that it gives 
the history of the making of India 
rubher plasters. It is illustrated with 
crude pictures of the apparatus then 
used in plaster making. The essence of 
the document is that for the first time 
there is revealed the methods, the ap- 
paratus and constituents of the India 
ruhber plaster. 

Prior to this, plaster making had been 
a closely guarded secret ; at one stroke 
Johnson & Johnson swung open the 
doors, taking the medical profession, the 



drug trade and the world into their con- 
fidence, and told them how plasters 
were made. Open-handed frankness, 
sincerity and a square deal illumined the 
birth of Johnson & Johnson, and has 
continued to this day. 

Volume upon volume has been issued 
showing the formula and methods of 
manufacture used for their products. 
In one of these issues it is stated : "The 
publishers of this volume have alwrays 
held that the consumers of their prod- 
ucts are entitled to full information as 
to the details connected with their rnan-' 
ufacture." 

Thus we find pamphlets telling how 
gauzes are made, how absorbent cottons 
are made, how ligatures are made, the 
machinery and apparatus used are illus- 
trated, the formulas are given and the 
processes minutely described. 

No manufacturer, save perhaps the 
elder Squibb, has ever approached this 
frankness in promulgating manufactur- 
ing details. Most manufacturers give 
as little information as possible as to 
how their wares are made. 

Some manufacturers rigidly exclude 
seekers of information — here all is open. 
It is no secret that this frankness has 
I the detriment of Johnson 
competitors have been 
; upon the information that 
' freely given. 

le publicity policy has con- 
1 the inception of Johnson & 
Johnson down to the present day. The 
medical profession, the drug trade and 
the consumer know what the goods 
are made of, how they are made and all 
about them. In such publications as 
"Laboratory Records" they tell how the 
goods may be tested and their integrity 
proven. 

This open-court frankness should. 
and does, entitle Johnson & Johnson to 
the confidence of the trade and the pro- 



been used t 
& Johnson, 

has been si 
This sai 



Adhesive Plaster in Therapy 



In all the practice of inedicine there is 
no one remedial agent which has so 
large a field of usefulness as adhesive, 
plaster. Its applicability is well nigh 
unlimited and in its immediate result it 
is unsurpassed. In so short an article 
we can only be^in to describe a smalt 
number of conditions in which it is of 
value, but a description detailing tbc 
manner in which it effects its thera- 
peutic purpose will undoubtedly open up 
to the thinking physician a great variety 
of cases where it is indispensable and 

The most essential and logical require- 
ments in many forms of affections are 
protection and compression, and no ap- 
pliance known in medicine provider 



of abscess and ulcers. A compression 
dressing of adhesive plaster confines the 
process of disease to the initial lesion 
and, in many cases, prevents suppura- 
tion (pus formation). 

Sprains, fractures, dislocations, etc., 
need additional treatment to limit mo- 
tion. This limitation of motion, prop- 
erly interpreted, means motion without 
exertion. In many cases adhesive plas- 
ter will replace plaster of Paris to great 
advantage. 

ImmobiUzatioQ is, without a doubt. 



E53 



I. 2— Application in 
|. 3— Floating Kidnct 



protection and compression so uniformly 
and perfectly as adhesive plaster. This 

fact is evidenced by repeated and suc- 
cessful applications of plain "Z O" Ad- 
hesive Plaster to inflammatory condi- 
tions which tend toward suppuration, 
such as mastitis, boils, carbuncles, ulcers, 
etc. 

A perfect understanding of the physi- 
olf^ical action of compression is neces- 
sary. The pressure exerted by "Z O" 
Adhesive Plaster produces hyperemia, 
which aids in carrying off or absorbing 
the debris, and this soon clears the path- 
ological condition which follows. 

Compression limits the extent ' 
the diseased portion of the body i 



par excellence in frac- 
tures of the long bones, where perfect 
rest and immobility are essential to their 
union. But after union has taken place 
and motion becomes imperative to pre- 
vent ankylosis and a regeneration of the 
parts the application of adhesive straps, 
properly applied, will allow sufficient 
free movement with the necessary in- 
hibition of overwork. 

One of the most important functions 
of properly adjusted adhesive plaster 
dressings ("Z O" plain) is the contin- 
uous massage that this dressing gives. 
The importance of this is obvious. If 
the adhesive plaster dressing is placed 
during a fracture or after the plaster of 



64 



Plaster Therapy 



Paris has been removed, it limits mo- 
tion and by compression produces a con- 
stant mild friction. This friction aids 
in the regeneration of the tissues by 
admitting of a vigorous blood supply. 
This limits the inflammation and re- 
stores an early use of the part. 

No other dressing accomplishes as 
much as adhesive plaster. And in "Z O" 
Adhesive Plaster Johnson & Johnson 
have produced a perfect combination of 
qualities— it is exceedingly strong, yet is 
a light fabric with a retentive, adhesive 



Even and graduated compression is 
one of the most efficient means we pos- 
sess for removing inflammatory or trau- 
matic exudates, or collections due to 
non-inflammatory circulatory disturb- 
ances such as occur in certain diseases of 
important viscera. In such conditions 
the most satisfactory treatment is 
strapping with adhesive plaster. 

In the edematous swelling so often 
seen during the course of kidney, liver 
and heart diseases, compression with 
appropriate strapping will give the 






Fig. 4. 



Fig. 5. 



Fig. 6. 



Fijj. 4 — Painful Knee, Sprain and Rheumatism. One-inch "Z O" Strips applied 
to obtain compression, limitation of motion and massage. 1st strip. 
Fig. 5 — Front view complete dressing. 
Fig 6 — Side view complete dressing, knee bent. 



surface of a non-irritating substance. 
Considering the time that the plaster 
remains on the skin, these qualities are 
of utmost importance. 

Since the results obtained from the 
therapeutic application of plain "Z O" 
Adhesive Plaster are so varied and so 
excellent, it is obvious that an adhesive 
plaster in which a medicinal agent is in- 
corporated must possess the additional 
quality of being a curative preparation 
on account of the absorbing property of 
the skin. 

First and foremost, "Z O" Adhesive 
Plaster has its greatest usefulness in 
conditions requiring immobilization and 
compression. Among the conditions 
may be enumerated orchitis, epididy- 
mitis, mastitis, neuralgia, lumbago, 
sprains, fractured ribs, fractured clav- 
icle, boils, abscesses, inflamed joints, syn- 
ovitis and many other conditions. 



necessary support and prevent effusion. 

In the treatment of affections of the 
breast compression is exceedingly val- 
uable and by itself affords much com- 
fort and relief as long as there is no 
purulent collection. But even after an 
abscess has been evacuated compression 
by means of rubber adhesive plaster 
serves to promote absorption, if so 
placed as not to interfere with appro- 
priate drainage. 

Proper bandaging and support in 
mammitis is a mode of treatment 
known to every practitioner and nurse. 
The application of a rubber adhesive 
plaster is an easy and effective way of 
accomplishing this result. 

In the presence of a painful joint, 
whether the pain is due to an inflamma- 
tory condition caused by systematic dis- 
ease, such as rheumatism or gout, par- 
ticularly in their sub-acute forms, or to 



Plaster Therapy 



65 



actual traumatism df the joint, without 
penetration, or to injury of periarticular 
tissues, rest is of the first importance. 
If the rest can be combined with even 
and steady compression an ideal method 
will have been obtained. 

This object may be well attained by 
the proper use of rubber adhesive dress- 
ings. To obviate the danger of con- 
striction the dressing must be applied 
from below upwards, any dependent po- 
sition of the limb must be avoided, and 
watchful care must be exercised. 



cold or heat, the swelling has dimin- 
ished. In general it is believed, how- 
ever, that the Gibney dressing may be 
advantageously employed at any stage 
of the injury. 

Considering the immense value of 
plain "Z O" Adhesive Plaster as a cura- 
tive agent in conditions where com- 
pression, limitation of motion and mas- 
sage are indicated, it must be apparent 
that a plaster wherein is incorporated a 
medicinal agent such as Belladonna, 
Mustard, or Capsicum possesses an 





4_ ^^ -• 



Fig. 8. 




* 




Fig. 7. Fig. 9. 

Fig. 7 — Circular dressing involving leg and thigh. 

Fig 8 — Weak Ankle; Sprain. "Z O ' Adhesive Straps, two inches wide, to 
encircle ankle, leaving Yi inch open at front to permit free circulation. 

Fig. 9 — Ulcer of Leg. Notches cut in plaster to permit discharge. Put gauze 
bandage over all. 



The joints most frequently benefited 
by adhesive strapping are the phalangeal 
articulations, the wrist, the knee and the 
ankle. The wrist is very subject to 
sprains, and a well fitted adhesive plas- 
ter dressing gives more relief than any 
other mode of dressing. We know that 
any reasonable degree of constriction 
of the wrist is usually quite safe. 

This procedure is adopted in sprains, 
synovitis, sub-acute rheumatism, and in 
teno-synovitis of the extensors of the 
thumb where they pass over the wrist 
joint. 

In sprains of the ankle joint, many 
surgeons apply the Gibney dressing 
whatever may be the amount of pain 
nr swelling, while others prefer to wait 
^or a few days until by rest in the re- 
cumbent position and the application of 



additional therapeutic property of no 
small importance. 

In mastoiditis, wry-neck, bronchitis, 
asthma, angina pectoris, acute affections 
of the kidneys, uterine and ovarian 
pains, Belladonna or Capsicum Plasters 
have been successfully employed by 
many, many physicians. 

All in all there is no denying the fact 
that in "Z O" Adhesive Plaster or med- 
icated plasters the general practitioner 
and surgeon has a therapeutic agent 
which has been, and forever will be, a 
valuable adjunct in the treatment of a 
great variety of diseases. 

The accompanying illustrations dem- 
onstrate the method of application in 
some of the conditions and the kind of 
plaster most effective. 



Blood -Vessel Surgery 



Alive 111 the most recent advances in 
surgical lechnic and endeavoring at all 
limes to keep at the head of the proces- 
sion in the preparation of sureical ne- 
cessities, Johnson & Johnson nave re- 
cently prepared, under the direclion of 
Dr. Bertram M. Bernheim of the Johns 
Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, sterile 



sutures for the repair of blood-vessels. 

In Dr. Bernheim's hook. "Surgery of 
the Vascular System," there is given 
the methods of procedure by which the 
author secures the beautiful results he 
describes in repairing blood-vessels. 

Dr. Bernheim states in the opening 
naragraph of the chapter on General 
Technic that the success of blood-ves- 
sel work, anastomoses, transfusions, re- 
pair of injuries, etc, depends almost 
entirely on the avoidance of a blood- 
clot — and a general technic has been 
evolved which if properly observed 
gives most consistent results. 

The peculiar method of working in 
liquid vaseline developed by Dr. Bern- 
he im is described in the following 
words : "During the entire course of any 
operation involving blood-vessels, the 
haemostasis must be absolutely perfect, 
or as nearly so as possible. All branches, 
large and small, capillaries excepted— 
should lie cut between two clamps and 
tied. Despite these precautions, how- 
ever, there will always^ be_ a certain 
amount of staining, which is best re- 



moved with gauze sponges wrung out 
in normal salt solution. In addition to 
this a stream of warm salt solution 
should be played on the wound at in- 
tervals during I he entire course of tlic 
operation, especially' after exposure of 
the vessels. This is not alone for the 
purpose of removing blood and clot, but 
lo prevent drying of the tissues afi well 
— a phenomenon that occurs with strik- 
ing rapidity in wounds of this character, 
and one that is to be avoided at all 
costs. Indeed, so careful must we be 
in this respect that we have called to 
our aid another agent belter qualified to 
prevent drying than salt solution — liquid 
vaseline, a neutral lubricant that keeps 
the tissues soft and pliable, prevents too 
rapid evaporation, and is tolerated by 
the organism in almost any quantity. 
The combination of s^lt solution and 
liquid vaseline, each judiciously used. 
keeps the wouniin a beautiful state of 
pliability that renders all manipulations 
much easier to accomplish and less lia- 
ble to damage any of the delicate struc- 
tures handled." 

In regard to suture material. Dr. 
Bern he im states ; 

"It is my custom to use black silk 
thread (00000), since that can be seen 
against a white background much more 
easily than a white thread against a 
black background, the latter being Car- 
rel's method. I have noticed absolutely 
no difference in the healing or in the 
operative results following the use of 
either the white or black thread ; the 
dye in the thread used for blood-vessel 
suture is fast and almost infinitesimal 

"AH needles (No, 12 sewing_ needlel 
are threaded and sterilized in liquid 
vaseline before operation, the routine 
being to thread each needle with about 
twelve inches of the black silk, drawing 
the ends even and fixing each needle on 
a separate piece of ordinary writing 
paper, about one-half inch by one-quar- 
ter inch, in such, a way that the doubled 
thread is wound around the needle by a 
figure-of-eight, and the final end of the 
thread caught by a slit in one corner of 
the paper. Thus prepared, four threaded 
needles are placed in a small flask con- 
taining one or two ounces of liquid vase- 
line and sterilized in the usual way. 
Just before operation the contents of 



Red Cross Notes 



one or more flasks, oil as well as nee- 
dles, are poured into a dry sterile medi- 
cine glass and placed on the instrument 
table. I have made it a rule to allow 
no one but myself to touch these nee- 
dles at operation, and I leave them lying 
in (he oil until the time for actual suture 
comes, when I carefully remove one nee- 
dle from its paper by going through the 



Fiaur 
On HiF 






reverse figure-of-eight. One end is then 
shortened to aliout two inches, and the 
needle and thread are given a final in- 
spection for any defects, such as small 
spots of rust or inequality or roughness 
in the silk. If this exammation is satis- 
factory the suture is begun, a similar 
proceclure being observed for each addi 
lional suture that may be needed. 

"Attention to many details that expe- 
rience alone can teach is required to se- 
cure constant results in this field ol 
surgery, but success will more than coi 
pensate for the patience and energy 
demands." 

The sutures prepared under the i 
struct ion of Dr. Bernheim consist of 
very fine straight sewing needle thread- 
ed with very fine black twisted silk, each 
needle and suture put up in a single 
glass tube preserved and sterilized in 
liquid vaseline. These tubes may be 
boiled to sterilize the exterior and lliey 



can be broken open, the needle and su- 
ture removed and used as directed. 

Johnson & Johnson pack these tubes 
three in a box. They are sold under the 
designation Blood Vessel Sutures — Bern- 
heim. 



SYNOL HELPS TO PRODUCE 
CLEAN MILK 

It is frequently within the province of 
physicians to discuss with their patients 
the problem of a satisfactory milk- In- 
vestigations have proven that the best 
milk obtainable is that which is fur- 
nished by a sanitary dairy. Then the 
question arises-:-wliat constitutes a sani- 
tary dairy? There are a number of an- 
swers applicable to this important in- 
quiry. It is of the greatest importance 
that the cows involved in the produc- 
tion of the milk must undergo e Kami na- 
tion al intervals of not more than a year 
for tuberculosis indications. Satisfac- 
tion being secured in that particular, 
care must be taken that the cow's body 
and surroundings shall be kept as dean 
as possible. 

To accomplish cleanliness in every 
particular is a matter that requires ear- 
nest attention to details. For example, 
the dairyman and his employees them- 
selves must be clean of hand ; the cow's 
udders, all the utensils, bottles and 
apparatus must be thoroughly washed 
before each milking. 

For this purpose a product known as 
Synol Soap is very serviceable and val- 
uable. Dairymen in considerable num- 
bers have been advised of it by bacte- 
riologists and pure- food commissions. 

Used intelligently and thoroughly 
about the dairy it will positively insure 
a superior quality of milk. Let the em- 
ployer and employees, both the milkers 
and those who handle the milk, wash 
their hands in a 3 per cent, solution of 
Synol Soap (three teaspoon tuls of 
Synol Soap to a pint of water). The 
udders of the cow will be perfectly 
sterilized if a sponge or cloth is im- 
pregnated with this solution and the 
parts washed off, after which operation 
they should be well rinsed with clean 
water. The containers used in milking, 
the bottles in which milk is placed and 
all other things likely to come in contact 
with the milk should be treated likewise. 



Surgical Specialties 

Aseptic 

Dental, Surgical and 

Optical Napkins 

(Sterilized) 
To be tiseil but once and destroyed. 



It is known beyond queslion that a substance like cloth for the use 
of surgical speciahsts in eye, ear, nose and throat operations must be 
surgically clean. 

These small napkins will be found a great convenience in this work. 
Put up in two grades of material and of two sizes. 



"Xo. 1" 

50 in 1:0x6x6 ins !?0.25 

500 ■■ 6x6 ins 2,25 

50 " 9x9 ins 55 

500 ■' 9x9ins 4.85 



■Xo. 2" 

50 in box 6 X 6 ins $0.20 

500 " 6x6ins 1,75 

50 '■ 9x9ins 45 

500 " 9x9ins 3.7? 



Napettes 

(Sterilized) 

A small piece of surgically clean gauze 2x6 inches for the many 
everyday uses where a larger piece of gauze is not needed. Folded or 
rolled as compress or mop. For wiping instruments, etc. 

i'ut lip 250 Pieces 2x6 inches in a box 35c 

Nu Paper Pinafores (1914) 

"Cheaper Than Laundry Bills" 

We believe that in these pinafores we 
have a quality of material that will prove 
thoroughly pleasing. A heavy, soft paper of 
cloth-like texture, crape finish. Practically 
noiseless. Cut out to fit the neck and upper 
corners rounded. Of ample size so that they 
fully protect the patients' clothing. Free from 
lint. To be used but once and thrown away. 
/ilu-ays clean and white and cost less than 
I ha!f as much as to launder towels. That tells 
the stnry. 
Put up 100 in box, 15 x 19 inches per box 75c, 



Red Cross Notes 



LINTON MOIST GAUZE— METHOD 
OF PRERARATION 

The preparation of Linton Moist 
Gauze begins with the use of a standard 
gauze prepared especially for this pur- 
pose in the Red Cross Cotton Mills, the 
standard adopted being that of about six 
hundred grains to each square yard, 
with a mesh of about thirty-two threads 
to the square inch. This fabric is im- 
pregnated to saturation with a definite 
stable solution of the antiseptic. The 
impregnating solution is made up witli 
physiological salt_ solution instead of 
water. The solution is thoroughly and 
uniformly distributed, so that every 
part of the fabric is charged with an 
exact and uniform quantity of the anti- 
peptic. The solutions are stable and 
non-volatile. The product is not sub- 
jected to drying, volatilization, atmos- 
pheric, and chemical change incident to 
other methods of preparation. 

The various steps of the process are 
as follows : 

1. Preliminary sterilization of the 
gauze by moist heat. 

2. Preliminary sterilization of the 
glass jars in which the dressings are to 
be packed. 

3. Imprecation of the dressings 
with antiseptics. 

4. Sterilization of the dressing tnate- 
' rials, containers, tops and fittings, and 

all other things pertaining thereto, by 
saturated steam in a vacuum. 

5. Packing of the dressings in their 
containers, the covers being laid on 
loosely, preliminary to their final sterili- 
zation. 

6. Sterilization of the finished dress- 
ings with steam. During this process 
the cover is hermetically sealed. 

All the steps of the processes are ear- 
ned out in a special aseptic room. In 
this room the material is kept sterilized, 
and the employes are specially trained 
for the work. 

The actions involved in the steriliza- 
tion chamber are: 

a. Preliminary warming of materials 
to prevent condensation. 

b. Removal of air. 

c Circulation of saturated steam, un- 
mixed with air, under pressure, through 
every fiber of the material, subjecting 
them to the highest possible action of 
this agent 



d. Subsequent exliaustion of steam 
and substitution of healed air. 

The dressings are passed into the 
chamber, heat is turned on; the air is 
then CKhausied until a given vacuum is 
formed; saturated streaming steam is 
let in until the temperature reaches 240 
degrees, and the pressure gauge indi- 
cates five or ten pounds. The steam 
pipes are then closed, and the vacuum 



pump started until the proper vacuum 

is obtained. Again steam is turned on, 
and so on in turn saturations are forced 
through the vacuum for from one to 
two hours. 

From the sterilizing chamber the 
dressings pass directly into the aseptic 

This method of sterilization effective- 
ly destroys all possible infection and 
secures absolute safety against the re- 
mote possibility of infection by handling. 
After the final sterilization the jar seals 

The experience gained since the origin 
and perfection of Linloq, Moist Gauze 
Dressings has abundantly proven that 
the principle governing their production 
is the only rational and scientific basis 
for the perfection of wound dressings. 

The glass container in which Linton 
Moist Gauzes are packed insures perfect 
protection in their transportation, sale 
and use. The form of the glass jars ad- 
mils of a portion of the gauze being re- 
moved without danger of infecting the 
remainder. 



70 



Red Cross Notes 



THK MFXHANICAL VALUK OF 
MEDICATED PLASTERS 

AND THEIR MANY THERAPEUTIC USES 

Plasters, in addition to their thera- 
peutic action, afford support, protection 
and produce automatic massage. 

They prevent irritation or abrasions. 
They prevent infection from clothing 
and the air by covering the diseased sur- 
face. In the case of open sores, ulcers 
and the like, many kinds of plasters 
form a most efficient dressing. 

Plasters compress and limit the mo- 
tion of the underlying tissues, thereby 
rendering mechanical support. In this 
way plasters, no matter what their med- 
ication, relieve the tension, pain, red- 
ness, heat, swelling and inflammation, 
causing an absorption of inflammatory 
or non-inflammatory fluids, pus, con- 
gested blood, etc. By this action they 
also stimulate the normal functions and 
exert a continuous massage. 

In weak back, for example, the appli- 
cation of a belladonna plaster acts as 
a support, resting and massaging the 
parts. Every time the wearer bends 
over, the muscles ripple under the plas- 
ter, and in addition to absorbing the 
medicinal properties of the plaster, the 
muscles are massaged. 

The difference between a hand mas- 
sage and a plaster massage is that the 
plaster acts gently but continuously for 
eight or ten days, or as long as the plas- 
ter is on, while a hand massage lasts 
only from fifteen to twenty minutes. 

The massage feature of plasters is 
little understood, but it is one of their 
most beneficial functions. 

The therapeutic application of medi- 
cated plasters is widespread. Recent 
authorities have recommended their 
use in a long list of inflammatory con- 
ditions, such as abscesses, inflamed 
joints, synovitis, varicose veins, ulcers, 
boils, carbuncles, orchitis, epididymitis, 
pulmonary, hepatic, renal and throat 
diseases, mastitis, inflamed joints from 
gout or rheumatism, pleural involve- 
ment, neuralgia, lumbago, floating kid- 
ney, excessive sweating and tubercu- 
losis, as well as a long list of derma- 
tological affections, such as acne, come- 
dones, eczemas, tinea circinata, lupus, 
etc. 

Any plaster when applied over a sore 
spot relieves the soreness bv subduing 
the inflammation. In a medicinal plas- 



ter the tissues absorb the medication. 
The medicinal agents soothe and relieve 
the pain. 

Dr. John V. Shoemaker calls atten- 
tion to the fact that plasters are appli- 
cable on portions of the body to which 
powders, lotions or ointments cannot be 
conveniently applied or maintained in 
position, and that a patch of plaster on 
the face is less unsightly than a smear 
of ointment. 

An important effect in plaster therapy 
is illustrated by a capsicum or a bella- 
donna and capsicum plaster. On appli- 
cation of the plaster, heat, redness, etc., 
are produced, thereby diverting the flow 
from the morbid or diseased part to- 
wards the place where the counter-irri- 
tant action has been set up. This stim- 
ulates healthful, normal action in the 
tissues. Mustard and blister plasters 
are active examples of this class. 

In addition to the foregoing there is 
the action of the absorbed medicament. 

Thus, in rheumatism or gout, or a 
pain in any part of the body, with an 
anodyne such as belladonna, applied 
either directly to the part or to the 
region of the nerves leading to the 
parts, the effect is pronounced and con- 
tinuous. 

Caldwell says: "The action of a 
belladonna plaster is a thousand times 
stronger than when the drug is taken 
internally. The plaster is usually bet- 
ter than the liniment or ointment be- 
cause : 

"First, it does not soil the clothes; 
"Second, it is more slowly absorbed, 
hence its action is more continuous; 
"Third, it protects the skin from 
cold, and in that way relieves pain; 

"Fourth, it acts as a splint, lessen- 
ing the mobility of the painful area. 
"No drug in Materia Medica is such 
a powerful depressant of glandular ac- 
tivitv and none has a wider field of use- 
fulness in local treatment of the various 
ailments of the body." 

The strongest argument you can offer 
a sceptic for the use of a plaster is 
this: "If you have rheumatic pains in 
the knees or any other spot it is quite 
natural that if you can apply the med- 
icine direct to the knee and the joints 
the effect of the medicine will be much 
stronger. And applying a plaster to the 
knee instead of taking the medicine 
through the stomach to reach the knee 



Red Cross Notes 



is the most direct way of getting the 
medicine to the affected part. When a 
plaster is applied over a rheumatic spot 
the medication is absorbed by the skin 
and goes directly to those tissues which 
are affected." 

The ar^ments i 
plasters in acute 

tnatory conditions _. . 

The strongest proof of their usefulness, 
however, is the fact that success 
variably follows their application. 



FIRST AID TO EXPECTANT 

MOTHERS 
Physicians have long noticed the fact 
that lack of knowledge on tlie part of 
the patient has made labor difficult and 
dangerous. It is impossible for the 
practitioner to be always at hand to 
answer questions and give advice dur- 
ing the period of pregnancy. Some 
physicians have written out instructions 
and given them to their patients, _ bu'. 
this process possesses obvious disad- 
vantages. 



To satisfy a demand of lon^ standing 
comes the booklet "Hygiene in Mater- 
nity" from the Scientific Department of 
Johnson & Johnson. Compiled from the 
thief authorities on obstetrics, it con- 
tains all the information which the phy- 
sician would wish his patient to have, 
but which as a rule he has not time to 
^ive her. "Hygiene in Maternity" is 
m no way intended to supersede the 
advice of the physician ; it forms a wel- 



n 

come and necessary adjunct to his ser- 
vices, it is therefore natural that so 
many members of the medical profes-, 
sion have secured copies of this book — 
wliich is sent free of charge for the 
asking — and have given copies of it lo 
all the expectant m other j on their list. 
Rules for calculating the time of birth, 
a list of the signs of pregnancy, direc- 
tions for the exercise, diet and general 
care of the patient make this a book 
which every doctor will want to put in 
the hands of his patient. Many a disas- 
trous accident, many a tragedy, perhaps, 
may be averted by the presence of this 
work in the household. Sane, accurate 
advice, simply and dear I v expressed, 
touches every point from the first signs 
of pregnancy to the care of the infant. 
The publishers do not claim to have 
produced a text -book on obstetrics or a 
"family physician" to supplant regular 
medical care, but they claim to have 
produced a manual of simple advice 
which will prove of service to every 
expectant mother. And an examina- 
tion of the book proves their claim well 
founded. 



PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS 
Don't squeeze the pus from an infected 
part. Frequent dressing and natural 
drainage accomplish all that is needed. 

Don't forcibly tear off an adhesive 
plaster. Saturate a wad of cotton with 
alcohol ; it will soften the mass — the 
rest is easy and painless. 

The best treatment for a sprained 
ankle is an adhesive plaster dressing. 
Don't fool with liniments. 

Sterilize the hands after every sus- 
picious examination. Do it with Synol 
Soap; it is for your protection and for 
that of your next patient 

The natural oil and grease on the 
skin sometimes prevent adhesive plaster 
from adhering. Oeansing the skin with 
ether, benzine or alcohol will facilitate it. 

Rubber adhesive plaster often causes 
dermatitis— use "Z O" Plaster and yow 
will have no such trouble. 



Linton Gauze Band; 
tridge carton. Steril 
in the grip or pockc 



Made in Surgical 
Dressings Laboratory of 
finest grade gauze, well 
spun yarn, tightly rolled, 
raveled edge, full width 
and length. 



Tlie most u 
sizes run fro 
finest surgic 
Gauze Bandi 



Supreme 



ch bandage tightly sealed in car- 
[red to the wound. Can be carried 
d from infection in handling. 



This style of packing, 
used only on Linton 
Gauze Bandages, keeps 

the bandages aseptic in- 
definitely. Costs only a 
trifle more than the com- 
mon kind. 



known in the world. The 
fie up to four inches. The 
In ordering specify Linton 



u 



Red Ctou Note* 



HEALTHY AND CONTENTED 
OPliKATIVES 

The operatives of Johnson & Johnson 
form a fair-sued communiiy in them- 
selves. Johnson & Johnson have long 
realized that only bright, clean, healthy 
people could prepare surgically clean 
dressings, and thus business interests 
as well as the welfare of the employees 
have caused them to make the work of 
the factory pleasant and healthful. 



manufacture of cotton and surgical 
dressings there are ample devices for 
exhausting flying fibers and dust. In 
certain parts of the factory the work of 
the operatives is in rooms surrounded 
by glass partitions, which by special 
devices for ventilation are kepi abso- 
lutely dustless. The buildings are 
lighted by electricity supplied from the 
central power plant of Johnson & John- 
son. The operatives are protected from 



Packing room 
«1». „icr<..grc ic 






Recently the National Civic Federa- 
tion requested a description of (he fac- 
tory and some points connected with 
the welfare work of the employees of 
Johnson & Johnson. From this report 
the following account has been made 
up: 

The buildings where operations are 
carried on are built on scientific lines. 
The factories are located on the banks 
of the Raritan River at New Brunswick. 
The buildings, which are well lighted 
and well ventilated, are surrounded by 
spacious lawns and gravel and cement 
walks. The most of them have been 
specially constructed for the work to be 
performed therein; the older buildings 
have been rebuilt to conform to the 
general plan. Ample provision is made 
in all parts of the factory for cooling 
the portions of the faclorj; where it is 
necessary to maintain a high tempera- 
ture. In no part of the work is there 
offensive gases evolved. 

In the departments devoted lo the 



[ o( dual and dirt. 

injury by the machinery, every con- 
ceivable device being employed to pre- 
vent the clothing of the employees from 
catching in the same. Attached to the 
main engine is what is known as the 
Monarch Engine Stop, The machinery 
is electrically driven by individual 
motors. 

Every department is furnished wifh 
complete dressing rooms and lockers of 

The employees wear special uniforms 
throughout the departments. 

There has been mstalled a system of 
lavatories which is above the ordinary; 
the basins are constructed of while 
enamel with modern plumbing with a 
view of insuring perfect cleanliness. 
A corps of people are employed to keep 
the grounds and work rooms scrupu- 
lously clean. All of the buildings are 
completely equipped with fire escapes 
and duplicate stairways. There is also 



Red Crou Notes 



different points; in addition to tliis 
there is an organized lire department 
(o wliom is assigned the duty of con- 
ducting the employees to a place of 
safety in an emergency. 

Lunch rooms have been provided. 
Many of the employees work at night 
and special provision has been made for 
them by the installation of a kitchen in 
charge of a competent chef who, at mid- 
night, furnishes the employees with 
soup and coffee free of charge. 



tended to here, and the unsatisfactory 
method of treating cases in the work 
room is avoided. These rooms are 
fitted up with lounges, couches, easy 
chairs and such appliances as are neces- 
sary for the care of patients. If the 
injury or illness is at all severe the pa- 
tient is placed in charge of a medical 
attendant or his own family physician. 
All treatment is governed by strict reg- 
ulations. The intention is to apply first 
aid only. The treatment is in charge of 



Dfsk of forewon 



All departments of the factory are 
supplied with filtered water in specially 
made coolers which prevents the ice 
from coming in contact with the water. 
The ice is made on the premises. This 
system has been found to be a source 
of great satisfaction during the sum- 
mer months, and the employees have 
been remarkably free from complaints 
prevalent at this season of the year. 

Two hospital and retiring rooms are 
provided for the employees in case of 
illness or injury. These rooms are also 
utilized for resting purposes. These 
hospital rooms have been specially built 
and outfitted on the modern hospital 



illness through ot 






those who have been previously trained 
in first aid work and who have the 
assistance of a competent physician and 
nurse employed by the Visiting Nurses' 

In conjunction with the Hospital 
Department is the Aid and Relief De- 
partment, whereby the foreman and 
forewoman in charge ot the department 
reports immediately all cases of sick- 
ness, contagious as well as non-con- 
tagious, which may be present in the 
household or on the premises ot any 
employee. The names of employees 
who do not seem to be in good health 
are also reported. Cases thus reported 
are investigated by the aid of a physi- 
cian or the \''isiting Nurse and, when 



Red Cross Notes 



nt'cossary, medical and liospilal treat- 
ment is provided. This department has 
been very efficient in caring for cases 
of contai(ious disease and in prevent- 
ing the spread of such diseases in the 
families of employees, and by assisting 
consumptives and others. In sucb in- 
stances employees have been sent to 



Sanitary wardrobe. 

homes and resorts for rest and recuper- 
ation. This Department has been found 
of great value both to the employees 
and the work of Johnson & Johnson. 
Particular care is given to the investi- 
gation of any contagious malady, it 



lion. The welfare of the employees is 
also carefully looked after in other 
directions. 

A Saving Fund has been established 
in which employees may deposit their 
savings, receiving full interest on the 
same, such a fund being secured by 
bonded investments subject to return on 
call. Plans are being arranged which 
seek to provide insurance pensions for 
long services, old age. death, etc., and 
loan funds for buildmg purposes. 

K swimming pool built along very 
modern lines has been installed for the 
use of the operators. In connection with 
this pool there is a series of shower 
baths, tub baths, etc. The baths are 
supplied with hot and cold water and 
Synol Soap. 

The social well being of the employees 
is also looked after. The female em- 
ployees are organized into a club known 
as the Laurel Club. This club is pro- 
vided with a room in which to carry on 
their work. The club is social as well 
as educational and many dances, enter- 
tainments, etc., have been held under 
the auspices of the club. At the present 
time classes are conducted as follows : 
Hygiene, Dressmaking, Physical Culture, 
Cooking, Housekeeping, First Aid to 



being manifestly important that no sort 
of contagion be allowed on the factory 
premises. All operatives before em- 
ployment are required to show a cer- 
tificate of successful vaccination. Peri- 
odically all operatives are vaccinated 
by physicians employed by the corpora- 



the Injured, Gymnastics, Swimuiing and 
Dancing. 

There has also been organized an 
association for the men— the Johnson & 
Johnson Athletic Association. The ob- 
ject of this association is to encourage 
manly sports and to promote physical 



Red Cross Notes 



culiure. In season a series of baseball 
games is played. This summer past the 
Johnson & Johnson Association scored 
second in the Factory Baseball League 
of New Brunswick. Complete baseball 
outfits were supplied by the corpora- 
tion. During the winter months mem- 



delicate i 

The harsh and skin-roughening anti- 
septics which have been employed for 
sterilization of the surgeon's hands, in- 
jure the epidermis and produce a con- 



uUdrngs. Made with o; 
SynofSoap. e(t. 



bers of the Association enjoy indoor 
sports in the gymnasium, such as indoor 
baseball, basketball, etc. 

The welfare work of Johnson & John- 
son has not been conducted upon any 
elaborate plan, but is rather such as may 
have been suggested from time to time 
durinp the course of the organization of 
the business. At the present time steps 
are being taken whereby the whole of 
Ihe welfare work will be collected upon 
a coherent plan ; this will amplify the 
methods already employed. 

These measures have been carried out 
in the belief that the surest way to suc- 
cess is through healthy, happy and con- 
tented operatives, and has secured John- 
son & Johnson a corps of trained peo- 
ple for the improvement and perfection 
of their products. 



SYNOL SOAP 

ITS USE IN SORCERY 
Synol Soap is a product w 
swers every requirement for 
(ect sterilization of hands, inf 



dition which is, to say the least, very 
uncomfortable. 

Synol Soap properly emploj-ed will 
effectively and positively sterilize the 
hands without the addition of any other 
antiseptic. Scrubbing with a nail brush 
and Synol Soap for five minutes and 
rinsing with sterile water has unfailing- 
ly rendered the skin surface sterile and 

First— Does not irritate or roughen 
the skin, 

Second— Keeps the skin soft, pliable 
and clean, 

Third— Preserves the integrity of the 

Fourth— Sterilizes the operative field 
by scrubbing with a good brush or a 
wad of gauze and rinsing off with sterile 

Synol Soap will sterilize instruments 
no matter how infected. They should 
he first washed thoroughly with Synol 
Soap and a brush or a wad of gauze 
and then boiled for five mini 
2 per cent, solution of Synol. 



How Synol Kills Germs 

Synol can be used in a baby's bath yet it has a remarkable germ 
destroying power. Here is the proof: 

The United States Public Health and Marine Hospital Service 
has devised a method for standardizing disinfectants. It is a very 
precise method and has been universally adopted. 

Syno! has been standardized under this method with the fol- 
lowing results : 

Germ Killing Power of Synol 

Synol diluted I to 200 {^ per cent solution) kills anthrax, bacil- 
lus in 50 seconds. 

Synol diluted 1 to 150 (three-quarters of one per cent solution) 
kills anthrax bacillus in 20 seconds. 



Synol diluted 1 to 100 lone per cent solution) kills staphylo- 
coccus aureus in 50 seconds. 

Synol 1 to 20 (five per cent solution) kills typhoid bacillus 
in 50 seconds. 

Under strict laboratory tests Synol in diluted solution of from 
one per cent to five per cent kills resistant di.sease and wound produc- 
ing organisms in from 20 to 50 seconds. 

In practice Synol Soap is used in dilutions of from one to ten 
per cent. 

Synol action is so marked because it softens and dissolves dirt, 
grease and scale in which bacteria are imbedded and allows the 
germicide to act. 

We will send you a bottle to test for yourself. 



Red Crou Notes 



THE THERAPEUTIC VALUE OF 
BELLADONNA PLASTERS 
Having told you where Belladonna 
acts to deaden pain, we will endeavor 
to tell you why its anodyne action is 
many times stronger when applied at 
the seat of pain than when given inter- 
IE a drug acts as an anodyne by de- 
pressing the sensory ends it is far bet- 
ter to apply it directly at the seat of the 
pain if it is accessible. It has a much 
stronger action because the whole dose 
in concentrated form comes directly in 
contact with the ends of the nerves 
that are irritated, whereas, if it is taken 
internally the dose is diluted by being 
mixed with the whole quantity of blood 
and carried equally to all parts of the 
body. Just as in asthma, smoking the 
belladonna leaves benumbs the sensory 
ends in the respiratory mucous mem- 
brane and lessens the reflex bronchial 









is most efiicient in relieving the pain of 
lumbago. Belladonna relieves the irri- 
tability of the chest muscles in cases of 
congestion. It has a special action on 
the pain arising from old adhesions due 
to pleurisy. In addition to being an 
anodyne it also serves as a splint, thus 
lessening the mobility of the chest wall. 
In the same manner does tt benefit the 
pain in gout and rheumatism. 

Belladonna diminishes muscular 
spasms. When a drug lessens spasms 
it is by depressing some part of the 
motor mechanism and is indicated by 
the following actions : First, on the 
cerebral motor area, the spinal motor 
area, the spinal motor tracts, the ends 
of the motor nerves and the muscles. 

It is known that belladonna applied to 
the skin depresses the ends of the motor 
nerves so that impressions cannot be 
conveyed to the muscles, but are stopped 
just before reaching the muscle, and 
hence belladonna in this way can relax 
spasm. For the same reason it is far 



cl«n and dustltss. 



80 



Red Cross Notes 



more cfticient as an anudyne when ap- 
plied locally. 

Belladonna is a well known and pow- 
erful depressant of the glandular secre- 
tions. Its physiological action is : 

First, the ends of the tender nerves 

whose function it is to excite secre- 
tions reflexly; 

Second, the center in the medulla, 

whose functions are both automatic 

and reflex; 

Third, the ends of the various eflPer- 

ent nerves distributed to the glands; 
Fourth, the secreting cells. 

Nothing better can be applied to the 
mammary glands than a Belladonna 
Breast Plaster when it is desired to dry 
up or check the secretion of the milk. 
It is far superior to remedies given in- 
ternally because it diminishes the secre- 
tion without producing other action on 
the system. 

Belladonna depresses the peripheral 
point of nearly every nervous mechan- 
ism, hence it has a wider field of use- 
fulness in local treatment of the various 
ailments of the body than any other 
drug in the Materia Medica. 

A medicated adhesive plaster is val- 
uable as a protective for the reason that 
the adhesive properties contained in the 
plaster are valuable in irritated and sen- 
sitive surfaces of the skin where pain 
has located. 

They act as a protective dressing, pre- 
venting irritation. 

They serve to keep an even degree of 
temperature of the body where appli- 
cable. 

Plasters compress and limit the mo- 
tion of the tissues, likewise give sup- 
port. In this way plasters relieve the 
pain, redness, swelling and inflammation, 
thereby causing the absorption of the 
inflammatory and non - inflammatory 
fluids, pus, congested blood, etc. 

By this action of compression and 
limitation of motion and support plas- 
ters stimulate the normal functions and 
thus give a continuous massage. 

In the case of weakness of the mus- 
cles, as in the back, the application of 
an adhesive plaster acts as a support, 
rests and massages the muscles. 

An important feature regarding the 
dependence to be placed in a belladonna 
plaster is that the belladonna should be 
a true belladonna of assayed, standard- 
ized strength, combined with resin and 
gums of known medicinal value. 



NEW PACKAGE FOR LISTER'S 
TOWELS 

The popular Lister's Antiseptic Sani- 
tary Towel, found so available during 
the years of its manufacture and sale, is 
now supplied in a new form of container. 
In this package the towels are enclosed 
in a cartridge cylinder of the same form 











as that used in enclosing and sealing Lin- 
ton Gauze Bandages which has proved so 
successful. One of its present advan- 
tages is that its bulk is reduced to a min- 
imum, thereby being more convenient 
for traveling. Lister's Antiseptic Sani- 
tary Towels are made of the best mate- 
rials and are exceptionally absorbent. 



THE ACTION OF RADIUM RAYS 
ON BACTERIA 

Some writers have recorded observa- 
tions to show that various forms of 
bacteria, when exposed to radium rays, 
suffer a reduction in color and virulence 
and show an increase of involution 
forms. 

Recent work has been undertaken in 
Guys Hospital, London, as to the action 
of the rays upon the bacillus of anthrax, 
pyocyaneus, subtilis, coli, typhosis, and 
various other organisms. 

The results seem to show that under 
exposure of an hour, and in some in- 
stances longer periods, the rays have no 
perceptible effect upon the capacity for 
growth, reproduction, mortality or stain- 
ing reactions. 



Special Literature 



81 



The pamphlets named below are recent issues of the Scientific 
Department of Johnson & Johnson. While their primary purpose is 
to give information about our products, they cannot fairly be classed 
as advertising matter, as they are scientific monographs thoroughly 
deserving of the perusal of all interested in medicine, surgery or 
pharmacy. They are sent free on request. 



No. 280. "Therapeutic Uses of Ad- 
hesive Plaster." A monograph of 
twenty-two pages, illustrates and de- 
scribes the uses of Adhesive Plaster in 
the treatment of injuries and in dis- 
ease. Useful to practitioners, students 
and nurses. 

No. 226. Handbook of Ligatures. 
This pamphlet contains a complete and 
interesting recital of the methods used 
in preparing catgut. It also contains a 
description of the sizes, tensile strength 
and other particulars of the finished 



ligatures. It is illustrated with photo- 
graphs. 

No. 20. Physicians* List. This is an 
elaborately illustrated catalogue of the 
most important products of Johnson & 
Johnson, described and arranged with 
an index for the convenience of custom- 
ers. It proves valuable at ordering time. 

No. 41. Hygiene in Maternity. Con- 
tains in clear and concise form such 
information as the physician desires his 
obstetric patient to have at hand before 
and after confinement. 



CONTAGIOUS DISEASE BULLETINS 

Johnson & Johnson issue a series of bulletins each dealing with 
one of the most prevalent contagious diseases. Each bulletin gives 
simple information as to isolation, disinfection and general care. 
These bulletins have been found of great value during epidemics, 
and many health boards have ordered large numbers for distribution 
in infected communities. 

Any single bulletin is sent free on request. The complete set, 
neatly bound together is sent on receipt of a two cent stamp. 



No. 18. A book with a Mission. This 
is a simple resume of the rules which 
should be followed by the citizens of 
communities in which infectious dis- 
eases are prevalent. It is intended for 
general distribution by health boards 
and charitable organizations. 



No. 29. 


Typhoid Fever. 


No. 39. 


Scarlet Fever. 


No. 40 


Measles. 


No. 43. 


Whooping Cough. 


No. 28. 


Diphtheria. 


No. 56. 


Consumption. 


No. 57. 


Smallpox. 


No. 38. 


Meningitis. 



SYNOL STOrS ITCHING IX SMALLPOX 

We have had quite a number of smallpox patients and they like 
to use Synol. A little of it in water used for sponging allays the 
itching. 

Yours truly, 

F. E. Fletcher, M. D. 

Ashland, Wisconsin. 



Red Cross Ntrtes 



WHY A BELLADONNA PLASTKR 
IS A TRUK THFIRAPKUTIC 

AGENT 

/( is an important law that Ike vaso- 
motor nerves supply iny the skin arc 
always assoetated with the vaso-molor 
nerves supplying organs or tissues un- 
derneath that part of the skin. This 
law explains the whole subject of sur- 
face application. 

A plaster or poultice, for example, is 
always sedative in its effects and relieves 
internal pain, not because the medica- 
tion strikes clear through into the organ 
involved, but acts only on the vaso- 
motor association between the outer and 
inner parts. Hence we may allay pain, 
stimulate as well as depress, by this 



Every inflammation of an internal 
organ causes the vaso-motor nerves of 
the skin over that organ to be in a 
highly sensitive condition, so that the 
internal inflammation may be much 
aggravated by neglect to protect that 
part of the skin. 

This is particularly illustrated in in- 
flammation of the heart, which may be 
made much worse by having the skin 
over the heart exposed to the cold. 

Besides these laws of vaso-motor 
associations there are other associations 
between widely separated parts. 

Thus the feet are closely associated 
with two important regions, the organs 
of the pelvis and the throat. Hence get- 



ting the feet wet will have an ftnniediate 
effect upon the circulation of these parts 
and may result in sore throat, bron- 
chitis, bladder inflammation, uterine dis- 

Bearing in mind that internal inflam- 
mation causes great sensitiveness of the 
corresponding area of the skin over the 
.i^eat of the inflammation, an area of 
inftammation should have the corre- 
sponding cutaneous surface carefully 
protected. We now arrive at the point 
in value of the application of an ad- 
hesive medicated plaster at the seat of 

Belladonna is the foundation of every 
good plaster recommended as a pain- 
a 11a J' in g agent. Belladonna stimulates 
capillary circulation by its decided in- 
fluence upon the vaso-motor centers and 

Belladonna is the most powerful and 
the best known pain-allaying drug. 

Dr. W. C. Caldwell states that when 
belladonna is applied locally to the skin 
in plaster form it acts upon the follow- 
ing mechanisms of the human body : 

First, the sensory mechanism ; 

Second, the motor mechanism ; 

Third, the secretory mechaiiism ; 

Fourth, the ocular mechanism. 
Belladonna relieves pain and is far 
more eflicient when applied locally than 
when given internally. By lessening 
pain it depresses some part of the 
sensory mechanism by the following ac- 

First. the receiving center in the 

Second, the sensory tracts in the 
spinal cord ; 
Third, the ends of the sensory 



e Laboratory of Johnai 



Synol in Typhoid 



One of the most important uses of Synol Soap is in the sick 
room — in typhoid, for example. The danger from soiled hands and 
clothing, to the nurse and to the physician, is always present. A 
bottle of Synol Soap in constant use can be depended upon to de- 
stroy the typhoid organism, A three per cent solution of Synol 
Soap kills the typhoid bacillus in two minutes. Of course this is' 
a bacteriological laboratory report and it is often stated by physicians 
that in practice, materials are not used under the clean pure condi- 
tions of the laboratory. That is correct, but note this: Synol is a 
soap, and soap emulsifies and mixes with organic matter, such as 
feces, etc., thus allowing the germicidal action to take place. 

Entirely aside from its cleansing value, Synol Soap is a remark- 
able germicide. 

The combination is irresistible. 

Equally efficient in other diseases and for the surgeon's hands. 



Corner of Ficsl Aid ai 




im, ). & J. faclo 


faelories now ms.all such 




;re injured and i 




id. They c 


an be inaUlUd 









Red Cto» Notes 



SPOOLS OF ADHESIVE PLASTER 

IN CONVENIENT NARROW STRIPS 

The small, narrow strip of "Z O" 
Adhesive Plaster has its most frequeni 
use in surgery. The small wound of 
the extremities or face which may be 
approximated with a strip of "Z O" 
Plaster occurs more often than a frac- 
tured rib or clavicle. 

There is no end to the use to which 
a narrow strip of adhesive plaster may 



be put ; a handy spool of this plaster 
containing about seventy yards of 
"Z O" Plaster one-eighth of an inch 
wide will be found invaluable in your 
office or operating room. It will hold 
a small bandage in place; it will coapt 
facial wounds ; small incisions can be 
drawn together, making sewing unneces- 
sary and preventing scars. The small 
strip of "Z O" Plaster is very pliable, 
conforms to the contour of any part 
without wrinkling and is non-irritaiing. 
It will make a fine supportive dressing 
for a sprained finger; it will hold a 
small splint in place; in fact, hundreds 
of uses will suggest themselves in your 
daily work. 

Every surgeon will realize the inesti- 
mable value of these small strips, which 
were originally gotten up for chiropo- 
dists, having learned from experience 
tliat the cutting of small pieces from a 
wide roll is both bothersome and waste- 
ful. 



THE MUSTARD PACK IN BRON- 
CHITIS IN CHILDREN 

Dr. A. A. Herzfeld, in the Journal A. 
M. A., says that while mustard has been 
in use as a counter-irritant for many 
centuries few physicians are acquainted 
with its excellent effects in the treatment 
of capillary bronchitis and broncho- 
pneumonia in infants and children. It 
IS especially indicated when such dan- 
gerous symptoms as severe dyspnea, 
asphyxia, cyanosis and great general 
prostration arise. 

Dr. Herzfeld applies it in the form of 
spread mustard mixed with alcohol. 
Flannel is saturated with the mixture 
and the body of the child wrapped up 
from the neck to knees. The moistened 
flannel is then enveloped in a dry sheet 
and the child is left in this pack until the 
skin is bright red. This point is usually 
reached at the end of fifteen to thirty 
minutes. The child is then taken out 
and wrapped and left for another half 
hour in a pack moistened with a mix- 
ture containing one part alcohol and 
two parts water. At the end of this time 
the child is wrapped up in a dry sheet. 
In most cases one well applied mustard 
pack will suffice to bring^ about a perma- 
nent improvement. It is not advisable 
to apply the pack more than once in 
twenty-four hours unless the indication 
is unavoidable. The effects of this mus- 
tard pack on a child are striking. 

A mustard pack can also be applied by 
the use of the prepared mustard plasters. 
In this case it is best to use the half- 
strength, wetting them well in water 
and covering with flannel, allowing them 
lo remain until the skin is reddened. 
This will occur sometimes at the end of 
five or ten minutes. The flannel may 
also be moistened in the water in which 
mustard plasters have been soaked from 
twenty minutes to a half hour. In this 
soaking the oil of mustard is evolved 
and saturates the water. About six mus- 
tard plasters to four fluid ounces of 
water give a counter-irritant of sufficient 
strength. 



than once a week. Yet the hairy scalp is 
especially favorable as harborage for 
dust and dirt. Surely, therefore, a daily 
washing of the scalp and hair is impera- 
tive. 



Red CroM Notei 



THE PREPARATION OF ABDOM- 
INAL SECTIONS AND PLASTIC 
OPERATIONS AND THEIR ROU- 
TINE AFTER-CARE. 

(Special Conlriblilioli) 
By John Cooke Hirst, U.D. 
When sufficient time can Ue allowed, 
the patient is kept in the hospital and 
in bed forty-eight hours before the lime 
set tor operation. All urine, blood, heat 
and lung examinations can be completed 
during the first twenty-four hours of 
the stay, and the last period devoted to 
the actual local preparation. An esti- 
mation of the clotting time of the 
blood is made in every case, especially 
those whose hemoglobin is sixty or be- 
low. 



4 P.M. of day hefor 



o(.ei 



All- 



ranged that it cannot be displaced up- 
wards and expose the cleansed area. 

6 P.M. : Soft diet for supper. 

5 P.M.: Magnesium Sulphate. It 
patient restless or nervous— Veronal. 

7 A.M. day of operation : Cup of 
beef tea with two or three crackers. 

10 A.M.: Scrubbing of previous day 
repeated (except the sliaving) and a 
dry dressing ot one per cent, formalin 
solution is applied and the binder ar- 
ranged as before. Lower bowel cleansed 
.ut by enema. 

Three-quarters of an hour before op- 
eration Morphin Sulph. and Alropiu 
Sulph. administered unless some special 
con Ira- indication is present. Catheter- 
ize just before the beginning of ihc an- 
esthesia. 



domen shaved, pubis, labia and upper 
third of thighs shaved completely, ab- 
domen scrubbed with green soap, hot 
sterde water and either gauze pads or a 
soft brush for ten minutes, rinsing the 
suds off frequently. The nurse who 
does the scrubbing prepares her hands 
and wears rubber gloves as at the oper- 
ation itself. After soap scrubbing, the 
skin is treated with eighty per cent, 
alcohol, dried with a sterile towel, and 
a dressing of dry sterile prauze is ap- 
plied and held in place by a binder cov- 
ering the abdomen and thighs, so ar- 



On the operating table tne patient 
receives a final wiping of the skin with 
Thymol in alcohol. The abdomen is 
covered witli a sheet of boiled rubber 
dam. through which the incision is made, 
and the edges of the dam are sewed 
down into the wound, so that no skin is 
visible ; one silk-worm gut stitch in each 
side is enough. The operative field is 
prepared as usual with sheets and towels. 

Iodine is not used for several reasons : 
(1) In strengths of less than twelve per 
cent, it will not sterilize the human skin 
and that strength will cause severe des- 



Red Cross Notes 



quamaiion ; weaker solutions are noi to 
be depended on. {2) It is an intense 
irritant to the peritoneum, and contact 
with it cannot be avoided in an abdom- 
inal operation. It will cause extensive 
adhesions and has caused fatal intes- 
tinal obstruction. <3) The healing of 
the wound is not uniformly clean, as it 
is with other methods of preparation. 

When lime is limited, as in acute 
appendicitis, extra uterine pregnancy, 
the second scrubbing, with shaving, is 
dispensed with. When the abdomen is 
too sensitive to scrub a thick layer of 
ga.u7e saturated with tincture of green 
soap is put on for two hours, the skin 
wiped off with alcohol and a dressing 
of formalin applied. When even this 



Vulva washed. Vaginal douche of 
bichloride of mercury (1-2000). Par- 
egoric given by the mouth one hour 
and a half before operation. A vulva 
pad applied, and the patient catheier- 
ized just before anesthesia. 
On the table: Vulva and vagina 
cleansed as before. Depilatories are not 
used. Clipping of the pubic hair instead 
of shaving is not sutlicienL 

All supplies, dressings, etc., are steam 
sterilized, basins and pitchers boiled. 
Tallies are covered with sterile rubber 
sheeting, and sheets or towels on top of 
this. 

The catgut used is the manufacturer's 
prepared gut put up in tubes and boiled 
with the instruments. The home prep- 



Exploring through *in protKled wilh RuliDer 
Dam. 1*0 danger of dragging infection inio 
wound. 

time is not available the scrubbing is 
carried out on the table, under ether, and 
the skin covered by the rubber dam. 

Preparation for a plastic operation is 
less complicated. 

Day before operation — 

6 P.M.: Light supper. 

9 P.M.: Magnesium Sulphate. 
Day of operation — 

7 A.M.: Cup of beef tea and two 
or three crackers, repeated till fluid 
returns absolutely clear. Last enema 
at least three hours before operation. 

JO A.M.; Pubis and labia shaved. 



L of catgut is dangerous 



- later, 









Irous infections. Silk and Pagenstecher 

thread are sterilized with the dressings ; 
silk-worra gut and silver wire are boiled 
with the instruments. 

As a preventive of wound infection, it 
must be remembered that chromic catgut 
larger than No. 1 size cannot safely be 
buried in the abdominal wall. 

Surgeon's hands are sterilized by ten 
minutes' scrubbing with hot water, tinc- 
ture of green soap and a brush, two rnin- 
utes in alcohol, eighty per cent., rinsed in 
bichloride of mercury (1-1000). Caps, 



Red Cross Notes 



S7 



masks, gowns and dry sterilized gloves 
worn in every operation. The washes 
are omitted in plastic operations. 

In sections gauze sponges in packs are 
used. In plastics sea sponges are better 
than gauze. 

ROUTINE AFTER-TREATMENT 

Sections — Water in small quantities as 
soon as ether nausea ceases, morphine 
and atropine if needed. The bed is ele- 
vated at the head for first forty-eight 
hours. An enema of milk of assafoetida 
given at the end of twenty-four hours, 
and the rectal tube used p. r. n. 

Calomel followed by magnesium cit- 
rate after forty-eight hours. 

Diet — Water for first twenty-four 
hours, alkaline water, broths. 

Hot milk for next forty-eight hours, 
soft diet after third day, medium diet 
after seventh day and full diet after 
tenth day. 

Kept in bed for fifteen days, except 
hernias and operations for retroversion, 
which stay for twenty-one days. 

Stimulation, when needed, heat entro- 
lysis, hypodermic, rarely intravenous. 

Drainage cases have Fowler position 
and Murphy entrolysis for first forty- 
eight hours at least. 

When urine output is far below nor- 
mal, Spartein Sulphate is given. Cath- 
eterized p. r. n. 

In cases when the wound is sealed 
with gauze and collodion, the outer 
dressings are removed after six hours 
and an ice bag applied directly over the 
collodion dressing for the first three 
days. 

Routine care of plastic: 

Water p. r. n. as soon as nausea 
ceases, morphine and atropine as re- 
quired. 

Catheterized p. r. n. 

Vaginal pack removed after twenty- 
four hours. 

Perineal stitches irrigated four times 
daily with sterile water, also after each 
urination or bowel movement ; if dis- 
charge collects around them. Hydrogen 
Peroxide cleans them quicker than any- 
thing else. 

Bowels moved as in a section. 

Diet, soft till bowels move, then me- 
dium till seventh day and then full. 

Stitches taken out on twelfth day, and 
patient up on fourteenth day. Complete 
tear stitches are left in sixteen days, 
and bowels kept liquid from the start. 



A PROTECTIVE RUBBER MESH 
DRESSING 



FOR BURNS, SKIN GRAFTS AND OTHER 

WOUNDS 

The greatest hindrance to proper 
healing of burnt surface or the "taking" 
of a skin graft is the irritation produced 
by the necessary and frequent dressing. 
Adherence of the dried gauze fibers to 
denuded surfaces and to the tiny grafts 
causes separation of the new cellular 
growth from the underlying tissue and 
pulls the graft from its base. Besides 
being painful this is very annoying. The 
essential features in repair of burnt 
surfaces are protection, proper drainage, 
non-irritation and clean dressings. 

At the suggestion of Dr. H. H. Sin- 
clair, of Walkerton, Ontaria, Johnson 
& Johnson prepared a pliable, rubber- 
coated net cut in pieces of one square 
foot, packed in envelopes and absolutely 
sterilized. This Rubber Mesh is, up to 
the present, the most ideal adjunct to 
the dressings for burns, wounds and 
skin grafts. 

The Rubber Mesh overlying the skin 
surface and underlying the dressing per- 
mits perfect drainage through the 
meshes, prevents adherence of the 
gauze fibers to the wounded surface and 
makes re-dressing painless. 

Every physician will realize the im- 
portance and usefulness of this device. 
It is but reasonable to recommend this 
Rubber Mesh protective for all wounded 
surfaces, such as skin incisions, vaccina- 
tions, ulcers, bed sores, etc., in fact for 
all cases which require the application 
of dressings and bandages. 

As a covering for nasal and vaginal 
tampons and rectal drainage tubes its 
employment at once suggests itself and 
there is no doubt that the inventive and 
studious mind of the physician will dis- 
cover a great many more advantageous 
uses. 



^yhen you "strap" an ulcer with ad- 
hesive, be^ sure you do not have too 
much tension on your straps — even "Z 
O" plaster may cause blistering when so 
applied, and always leave apertures 
through which secretions may escape. — 
American Journal of Surgery, 



Red Cross Notes 



It occurs now anil then ihat surgeons 
in ordering silk and catgut sutures or 
ligatures confuse the siws, with the re- 
sult that upon their receiving what they 
specified tliey do not get what they 
wanted. 

Early in their car. 
son recognized the 
from the ; 



Catgut 

is twelve- 
el er, the 

It is i 



[ohnson & John- 
fusion resulting 
which different 



surgical 
devoted 
of l^ati 



s. 00 to 7. The No. (« 
thousandths of an inch in diam- 
No. fifteen-thousandths of an 

in accordance with these num- 

!es illustrated on this page that 
& Johnson's ligatures and su- 

e made and sold. This firm. 
well known manufacturers of 
dressings and supplies, have 
many years to the perfection 

ire and suture material. Their 



Catgut Sitei. 

nc) standard by which a huyer ci>uld in- 
telligently sjiecify by number and know 
what he would gel. 

Finally becoming leaders in the line of 
suture and ligature materials, we have 
produced this standard. 

There are twenty sizes of both twisted 
and braitk'd silk ; No, 1 is the finest and 
No. 20 Hie coarsest. Nor., 5. 9 and 12 of 



Braided Silk Siz« (1 lo 20). 

twisted silk and Nos. 4, 7 and 10 braided 
silk are the sizes most frequently used 
by surgeons and these are the only sizes 
carried in regular stock. Other sizes 
must be made to order from the raw 
material which we always iiave in stock. 



, 'o'fdi^er^i .. _ _. _ 

used in which the various styles of 
these goods are packed. Each and every 
package contains absolutely sterilized 
^nd aseptic material. 

In order that any physician or sur- 
geon may constantly have before him 
the exact numbers and siies of silk and 
catgut, and thus be enahled to order 
precisely what he wants and get exactly 
what he orders when he specifies J .& J., 
we will send him a size card carrying 
strands of all the twisted and braided 
silk and catgut herein men:ioned. One 
of the cards will be mailed postpaid upon 
receipt of request. 



BED BUGS AND DISEASE 
Bed bugs are known to convey small- 
jiox and tuberculosis. It is thought that 
ttiey also convey intermittent fever and 
cerebro-spinal meningitis, and the sup- 
])osition IS in process of investigation. 
It has been found that these parasites 
attack dead and living mice, and it is 
thought that they spread pest and mouse 



Red Cross Notes 



The Ideal 
General Practitioner 

"LTE is virile by virtue of his 
environment; he is self-reliant 
from his isolation; he is resource- 
ful from necessity ; ,he exalts 
common sense above fine theories; 
he deals with all conditions and 
preserves a breadth of vision, grasps 
general principles, and failing the 
finer technical knowledge of the 
specialist, is spared the distortion of 
his perspective. He knows his 
patient as a man and a friend and 
not as a commodity, and he it is who 
exemplifies best and most consist- 
ently that unselfish regard for 
others that glorifies medicine. — 
Meara in Boston Medical and Sur- 
gical Journal. 



supply tor the Red C 
rendered chemically and 



90 



Sterile Ligatures 



STERILE LIGATURES 
Glass Tubes 

Sealed glass tubes containing the ligature 
preserved in the sterilizing liquid. 



Large 



Tubes 





STERILE CATCUT N» 2 
PtAW 

kk mkdiLimm mmmmmmmmm 



Containing ten feet of catgut, or four yards 
of silk. 

Standard Size Tubes 




STERILE CATCUT No. 2 
PLAIN 



5 



Each tube contains five feet of catgut, or two 
yards of silk. 

Silkworm-gut, Kangaroo Tendons, Horse-hair 
and Umbilical Tape are also put up in Standard 
Tubes. 

Half-Meter Tubes 



STEfULE CATGLrr No. 2 
PLAIN 




Each tube contains 20 inches of catgut or silk. 



Emergency Tubes 




One suture threaded in needle, in sealed glass 
ready for use. Straight, half-curved, and full- 
curved needles supplied. 



Red Cross Notes 



SYNOL SOAP 



GENERAL 

No greater fertile field for infection 
exists than the vagina in pregnant and 
parturient women, A vaginal examina- 
tion, ante-partum, during delivery, or 
post-partum, must be conducted with 
every antiseptic precaution. 

An absolutely safe procedure is to 
scrub the examining hands for five min- 
utes with Synol Soap and brush and 
then carefully cleanse the vulva and 
labia with a pad of gauze saturated witli 
Synol Soap and rinse off with sterile 
water. Lubricate the examining fingers 
with pure Synol Soap and everything is 
ready for an antiseptic procedure. 

For post-partum irrigation nothing is 
a? soothing and n on- irritating as Synol 
Soap, one teaspoonful to a quart of 
water. There is no danger of absorp- 
tion of toxic products when you use 
Synol Soap. 

The cleansing of the pudendum with 
Synol Soap on a pad of cotton or gauze 
before applying the perineal pad is good 
practice and keeps the field clean and 
odorless. » - ~- 



Synol Soap is just as harinless and 
cleansing for the baby's skin as it is to 
mucous membrane ; therefore washing 
the baby with Synol Soap after delivery 
is h^hly satisfactory. Synol Soap has 
a dissolving effect upon the vernix 
caseosa, thus facilitating the cleansing 
process without unusual scrubbing and 
rubbing of the delicate skin. 

Synol Soap is very useful for gyne- 
cological work; as a finger and instru- 
ment lubricant it has no equal and will 
be found very satisfactory in infected 
conditions. 

As a vaginal douche in leucorrheal 
discharges or gonorrheal conditions it is 
exceedingly effective, a teaspoonful to 
one quart of hot water proving sufficient 
to cleanse the area. 

There is no limit to the usefulness of 
Synol Soap in general practice. Wher- 
ever it is desired to attain a perfectly 
clean surface its employment is indi- 

In scalp diseases, seborrhea, etc., it 
lias a softening effect on the crusts and 
scales; in skin diseases where prelim- 
inary washing is not contra-indicated, 
scabies, etc., it is excellent ; as a mouth- 
wash, in sore throat, tonsilitia, etc., it is 
healing and antiseptic. In fact, many 
conditions and uses will suggest them- 
selves wherever it is evident that real 
cleanliness is part of the cure. 



^1[ the machinery is electrically dtiven. 



Red Cross G>tton Mills 



The buildings for tlie manufacture of 
Red Cross Cotlon and Gauze were creel- 
ed in 1900. This plant is a unique man- 
ufactory. 

Previous to the erection of these mills 
Johnson & Johnson purchased finished 
gauze and other materials and then 
packed them for surgical uses. 

Now. since 1900. the Red Cross Cotlon 
Mills turn out gauze cloth that is manu- 
factured especially for surgical purposes. 
Johnson & Johnson combine the manu- 
facture of surgical dressings with a cot- 
ton cloth mill. 



in such mills. General condilions are 
unpleasant and no attention is paid to 
the health of the operatives. 

The Red Cross Cotlon Mills, however, 
stand in strong contrast. Few buildings 
erected for any purpose whatever are 
better lighted and ventilated. No other 
cotton cloth factory k comparable to 
this, say the visitors who are acquainted 
with the largest mills of England, New 
England and the South. T'.:e Red Cross 
factories arc striking examples of 
American progress. 

The Red Cross Cotton Mills alone 



fee' 






1 Dre 



of ci 



SThe'^for 



indred 



The advantage of manufacturing as 
well as preparing cloth for surgical 
dressings is not only an advantage but a 
necessity in order to obtain absolute 
cleanliness. Mills that turn out com- 
mercial cotton cloth manufacture from 
the commercial standpoint only, produc- 
ing the greatest amount of goods at the 
least outlay of capital. Surgical clean- 
liness is not obtained or even understood 



have been able to meet the present de- 
mands for better surgical goods, more 
reliable goods, more cleanly goods. And 
this concern alone has made the manu- 
facture of surgical dressings a separate 
and distinct industry. Just as the in- 
vention of cloth-making machines began 
a new era in that industry, so the erec- 
tion of the Red Cross Cotton Mills 
marked a new era in the production of 
gauze dressings for surgery. 



The Famous Roll 

The Famous Wrapping 

The Famous Cotton 

Red Cross Cotton is made of carefully selec'.ed fibre iii a surgi- 
cal dressing laboratory. 

The processes insure perfect absorbency and absolute sterili'.y. 

The result of a quarter of a century of study of cotton for 
surgical uses. 

Peculiar to Red Cross Cotton is the form of wrapping shown 



This wrapping forms a complete encasing of the cotlon in 
tissue paper in such a way that it is entirely protected from exposure 
to infection whether in or out of carton. 

The cotton cannot become infected without breaking open the 
carton and then the paper. 

The cotton can be removed from hs carton and portions cut 
from it without infecting the remainder. 

Red Cross Cotton is to-day the standard for the world's pro- 
duction—a standard which is imitated and striven after, but which 
stands in a class by itself. 

Red Cross Cotton is the world's standard. 

In ordering specify Red Cross Cotton. 



94 



First Aid Service 



Johnson and Johnson have established a Service Bureau which 
has attained a foremost position in the now world-wide First Aid 
movement. 

The Service reaches far beyond the production of outfits and 
supplies. It has assisted in the organization and installation of First 
Aid systems in some of the largest railway and transportation lines, 
mining companies and factory organizations in the world. 

The Service is closely allied to, and utilized by, physicians, 
First Aid organizations, teachers, training classes, boards of educa- 
tion, railways, municipal departments and others interested in First 
Aid, in respect to text book requirements, literature, etc. 

The Bureau has been of special service to teachers, instructors 
and classes which have been formed in factories, mines, Y. M. C. A.s, 
Boy Scout and Girls* Camp Fire bodies, and other institutions and 
associations. In many of these latter Johnson's First Aid Manual 
has been adopted as a text book, and their Instruction Outfit is used 
for demonstration. 

The Service is prepared to co-operate with physicians, lecturers, 
teachers, instructors and heads of organizations and with individuals 
who may be interested in the subject of First Aid. In addition to 
the equipments and supplies the Service is prepared to furnish the 
following : 



Merton's Anatomical First Aid Charts 
— A series of charts designed by Hohnes 
W. Merton. Each chart 2b x 38 inches, 
in colors. 

No. 1. Normal Skeleton and liga- 
ments; Skeleton shows 14 fractures and 
dislocations. 

No. 2. Circulation; complete view of 
chief arteries and veins and muscular 
and skeletal relations. 

No. 3. Muscular System; two figures, 
with Bandages, Tourniquets, Compresses 
and Splints. 

Figures half size with over 50 illustra- 
tions. For individual and class use. Price 
for the set, $5.00. 

Lecturers* Exhibit — A series of photo- 
graphs mounted on cards, showing uses of 
Triangular Bandage, arrest of bleeding, 
resuscitation, etc. Includes a Triangular 
Bandage. This exhibit is loaned. 

Lantern Slides — A set of lantern slides 
covering bleeding, shock, fractures, resus- 
citation, bandaging, etc. This set is used 
by lecturers. Sold or loaned. 

Instruction Outfit, used by teachers, 
classes, etc., contains bandages, splints and 
tourniquets to be used in practice work. 
Price $3.00. 

Numerous publications upon the sub- 
ject of first aid have been issued by the 
Bureau; at the present time the following 
are available: 

Johnson's First Aid Manual, sixth edi- 
tion> nearly 150 pages, illustrated in colors. 



Adopted as a text-book by railway systems 
and first aid societies throughout the world. 

Price, cloth bound, 50 cents per copy; 
paper bound, 25 cents per copy. 

Hand Book of First Aid — Sugges- 
tions for first aid to the injured in acci- 
dents and emergencies, containing brief 
instructions of the first essentials in 
emergency work. Free. 

First Aid Study Schedule. — A pamphlet 
outlining the study of first aid to the in- 
jured in a systematic series of lessons. 
Valuable for the individual as well as for 
classes. Free. 

First Aid Questions — Set of questions 
for beginners in First Aid based upon 
Johnson's First Aid Manual. 

First Aid in Accidents, Circular No. 
110. — Descriptive of Johnson's First Aid 
Cabinet, Household Accident Case, etc. 
Free on request. 

First Aid Packet, Circular No. ISC- 
Describings and illustrating many varieties 
of first aid packets. Free. 

COMMUNICABLE DISEASES 

The prevention of the spread of con- 
tagious or infectious disease is rightly 
made a part of First Aid work. 

The Bureau has issued a series of bul- 
letins imon the more common contagious 
and infectious diseases (a separate bul- 
letin being issued for each disease). In 
each bulletin is given practical methods 
for disinfection, isolation, and care of the 
sick in contagious diseases described else- 
where in this issue. Sent free. 



First Aid Helps 



Below find illustrations of items which the First Aid Service o 
Johnson & Johnson is prepared to supply. 



IXDF.X OF nrrORTAXT ARTICLES 

PAC.F- 

Sonie nits of History 5C 

From Cotton Wool to Absorbent Cotton 54 

Rai)i(l and Safe Method of Ligating Vessels and Other Bleeding 

Points 55 

The Surgeon's Hand — Poem 57 

A'accination — By Samuel T. Knaggs, Australia 58 

The Doctor and Cleanliness 69 

The Open Book 62 

The Therapeutic Uses of Adhesive Plaster 63 

Blood Vessel Surgery 66 

The ]Mechanical Value of predicated Plasters 70 

Healthy and Contented Operatives 74 

How Synol Kills Germs 78 

The Therapeutic Value of Belladonna Plasters 79 

Why a Belladonna Plaster is a True Therapeutic Agent 82 

The Mustard Pack in Bronchitis in Children 84 

Preparations of Abdominal Sections and Plastic Operations and 

their Routine After Care — By John Cooke Hirst, M.D. ... 85 

Sizes of Surgeons' Silk and Catgut 88 

First Aid Service 94 



The Doctor's Hands 

A most interesting article published in a recent issue oE The 
American Journal of Clinical Medicine pronounces the dictum that the 
doctor's hands should be " clean, dry, warm, smooth and soft" He 
argues this not only as a professional but as a business necessi^. 

The best way known to secure this condition is through the use 
of Synol Soap. A practitioner eminent and busy in genito-urinary 
practice and who is in constant contact with infection and filth, says 
he washes his hands as much as two hundred times a day with Synol 



Soap. He also cleanses his apparatus, test tubes, glasses and the like 
witli the same soap. He feels assured that the infection is destroyed 
and washed away. He has the satisfaction of knowing that he and 
his Hands eire clean, and above all that they are kept smooth and soft 
In (act he is noted for the gentle, unerring touch of his soft finger tips, 
a point so desirable, 

Synol Soap will keep the doctor's hands clean, will remove and 
destroy infection, and is a good thing to recommend to patients. 

Send for a sample of Synol Soap. 

JOHNSON & JOHNSON 

New Branswicl. N. J., U. S. A. 



Series VII. ^- — ;— r. - - Numfcer Eouf 

'Red|s0SS' 

C/ NEW BRUNSWICK,(7 N.J., U.S.A. 



PUBLISHED BY 



The Don*t Worry Kind 

Without complete confidence in his catgut the surg;eon feels a 
certain worry that is ever present while he operates. 

If his catgut is too brittle it often breaks at the knot 

If it is not strong he must use larger strands than he cares to. 



Sealed gloss tubes coataining the ligature preserved in the sterilizing liquid 



Each envelope contains 28 inches of catgut 

If not Strong he does not trust it and may not put enough 
pressure at the knot, causing a poor tie — then the ligature slips. If 
the second knot does not lie flat on the first throw, it may become 
untied later. It is almost impossible to tie a good knot with brittle 
catgut, because the gut is not soft enough to allow flat knots. They 
either become untied or the surgeon breaks his catgut in trying to 
bring the second knot down tightly against the first. 

Catgut may be sterile— but if there is trouble at the knot the 
surgeon never can have full confidence in it. 

Johnson & Johnson begin sterilizing the raw lamb's gut before 
it is twisted into a suture. The twisted material is sterilized again 
in the tube and after the tube is sealed. It is soft and pliable and 
to an expert the very feel of it tells the surgeon that it will "run 
even" while tying a knot. 

Our gut is sterile before twisting, after twisting and remains 
sterile in the tube. 

Samples will be sent upon request. 

JOHNSON & JOHNSON 

New Brunswick, N. J., U. S. A. 



RED CROSS NOTES 



COPYRIGHT 1915 BY JOHNSON & JOHNSON 



Series VII 



New Brunswick, N. J. 



Number Four 



RED CROSS NOTES 
Published by Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, N. J., U. S. A, 

Fred B. Kilmer, Editor 

This publication is issued from the laboratories of the publishers with the intent to 
give, in brief, items of interest and reports of original research along the line of the 
particular branches of the art in which they labor. 

Persons receiving Red Cross Notes will confer a favor by notifying the publishers of 
any inaccuracy in the address on the wrapper and of any change of their address. 



RED CROSS NOTES 

As many to whom this issue will 
come may receive it for the first time, 
some explanation is in order. A leaflet 
under this title was first issued in 1897, 
and in this issue it was stated : 

"The primary intent of this pub- 
lication is to give information as to 
our products, new methods, new 
issues of pamphlets and publica- 
tions, together with such other mat- 
ter as may be deemed of interest to 
all concerned." 

Since that date the issues of the Notes 
have been irregularly continued. The 
issues for some time past have been 
confined to subjects believed to be of 
interest to the medical and surgical 
profession. The text of the pages is 
intended to be useful to those who may 
take the time to peruse them. 

While many of the articles which ap- 
pear are related in some respects to the 
preparations manufactured by Johnson 
& Johnson, they are adaptable to simi- 
lar articles which may be made by 
others. 

Many of the contributions are the re- 
sult of correspondence with, or direct 
contributions from, specialists and prac- 
titioners, giving the methods followed 
in their own practice. 

The handy form of the Notes and 
the brevity of its articles renders it at- 
tractive to the reader. 

The editor and publishers are always 
appreciative of suggestions received 
from the readers, and herewith express 
a sincere desire for their continuance. 



WOUNDS IN THE EUROPEAN 

WAR 

Dr. G. H. Makins, consulting surgeon 
to the allied forces, calls attention to 
the limited number of bullet wounds by 
machine guns or rifles, and the very 
large number of wounds inflicted by 
shrapnel shells. Wounds produced by 
small-caliber bullets are usually found 
in an aseptic condition, and for the 
most part uncomplicated, while shrap- 
nel shell wounds, without exception, be- 
come infected and suppurate. In 
wounds produced by shrapnel bullets 
some are merely a bruise, while others 
penetrate, and others, again, produce in- 
juries of the most severe explosive type. 
The entry wounds are comparatively 
small, while at the exit, especially where 
bones are centered, the surface may be 
a large mass of extruding, lacerated 
muscles with numerous fragments of 
bone exposed upon the surface. 

The report calls attention to the fact 
that a man struck by a machine gun 
may have a line of wounds passing from 
right to left across the body. In one 
case five separate wounds on the same 
level were distributed across the chest. 
In the bursting of a shrapnel shell a 
large number of bullets may strike the 
same individual. As many as thirty- 
four wounds were counted on the body 
of one man. Multiple wounds cause 
extreme shock. 



Red Cross Notes 



in Z'^.f.^Ti 



The majority of the wounds do well; 
suppuration and fever, however, and 
^loughinK of the soft f>arts are the rule. 
A very serious complication of wounds 
is the development of acute tetanus. 
The initial source of this infection is 
traced to the soil. 

Wounds of the face and chest, with 
extensive injuries to the palate and 
head, are quite common, while wounds 
of the sacral region and abdomen are 
not uncommon and are often distress- 
ing. Fractures are numerous and se- 
vere ; these are accompanied by large 
wonnds and concussion. Injuries to the 
joints are of a gross nature, and almost 
without exception are accompanied by 
fracture of the articular ends of the 
bones. 

Incidentally the report states that 
death has exacted a heavy toll among 
the medical officers employed with the 



I layers of cDUon encaKd in gauie, a giuie 
r licing Bttichcd to the iirc»iii^ 

IMPROVISED EXTENSION 

APPARATUS 

Drs. J. H. Watson and T. Snowball 

have suggested an improvised apparatus 

in the treatment of fractures in modem 

This apparatus as here illustrated is 
a rectangular splint made of two 
pieces of wood from half to three-quar- 



JANUS ADHESIVE IN X-RAY 
WORK 

My use of Janus Adhesive Plaster for 
x-ray work consists in fastening one 
surface to a sheet of metal, producing 
an adhesive plaster with a metal back- 
ing. This will adhere exactly where 
applied, protecting certain parts from 
exposure, while the neighboring un- 
covered part of the patient is receiving 

For radium therapy heavy sheet metal 
is rendered adhesive so as to act as a 
handle for a radium applicator, pressed 
against the adhesive surface, while the 
metal protects the patient's fingers from 
the radiation. Yours very truly, 

StNCLAiR TousEV, M. D. 







. ... inch thick and about thret 
: broad, nailed together at a right 
angle. A screw pulley is firmly fixed 
into the center of the forearm piece and 
a strong nail is driven from below into 
the center of the right angle, leaving 
about a quarter of an inch projecting. 
Before applying the splint "Z O" Ad- 
hesive Plaster is atfixed to the forearm- 
An extension string is led over the pul- 
ley to the underside of the splint, where 
it is fixed in a loop of rubber drainage 
tube. A simple string supports the fore- 



— Poor dressings — cheap absorbent 
cotton, unclean gauze, infected ligatures 
and bacteria -laden bandages used in 
wound dressing are worse than wet pow- 
der in the time of battle. 



Red Cross Notes 



99 



THE STRIP AND CLIP METHOD 
OF CLOSING WOUNDS 

Devised by 
Dr. Robert H. M. Dawbarn, New York 

The dosing of wounds represents a 
surgical problem all its own. Many sur- 
geons have devised many methods in 
order to obtain a good cosmetic result, 
viz., as little scarring as possible. An- 
other point, however, equally worthy of 
consideration is the avoidance of stitch 
abscess and pain occasioned by the re- 
moval of stitches. 




CVTAlcma 



GU^sTLak. 






Fig. 1 

"Z 0" Plaster placed on glass plate for cutting 

^Dr, Robert H. M. Dawbarn has de- 
vised a method of closing wounds by 
means of Michel clips and Z O Adhesive 
Strips, alternately applied, which, as far 
as simplicity, rapidity and satisfactory 
results are concerned, leaves nothing to 
be desired. In his large surgical prac- 
tice Dr. Dawbarn employs this method 
of wound closure for every conceivable 
operation, from laparotomy to cranial 
wounds, with perfect success and satis- 
factory cosmetic results, and the ad- 
vantages derived warrant a full descrip- 
tion of the technique. 

For suturing the subcutaneous tissues, 
the skin edges are closely proximated 



with small forceps, and every inch along 
the line of incision a Michel clamp is 
attached. Between each clamp the skin 
is drawn together by Z O Adhesive 
Strips, which are sterilized over an 
alcohol flame, as shown in Fig. 3. This 
gives a minimum of adhesive surface 
directly over the wound, with a maxi- 
mum of traction on the skin. 

The sole reason for using the Michel 
clamps is to prevent the inverting of 




Fig. 2 

Strip pattern laid out in lead pencil 




Fi^. 3 
Sterilization of the strip over an alcohol lamp 

the skin edges, which does occur where 
adhesive strips alone are used. 

The Michel clamps are removed after 
twenty-four hours, and the Z O Strips 
after ten days. Should they become 
soiled or loosened from discharges new 
strips may be applied. 

Fig. 1 shows the method of making 
and cutting out Z O Adhesive Strips. A 
large strip of Z O Adhesive Plaster, 
from 3i to 5 inches wide, is pasted on a 
glass plate. Over this, in the center, a 
smaller reenforcing strip, from 2\ to \\ 
inches wide, is laid over for the purpose 
of giving additional strength. 

The pattern is laid out in lead pencil, 
as shown in Fig. 2, and then cut out, as 
illustrated. This renders the strips 
ready for use when desired. 

Before applying a strip of the plaster 
over the wound Dr. Dawbarn sterilizes 
the rubber surface over an alcohol flame, 
and this is where the re-enforcement 



Red Crou Nota 



Strips prevent suppuration, due to the 
heat or burning. 

This method of wound closure pre- 
serves the integrity of the skin, prevents 
stitch abscess, does away with painful 
removal of stitches and leaves a very 
small scar. 

Dr. Dawbarn is u^init this method ex- 



tensively in his work in the Cily Hos- 
pital, New York, in other institutions in 
which he is attending surgeon, and in 

his private surgical work, with great 



DIRTY HANDS AND TYPHOID 

The experiments carried on by Major 
S, L, Cummins, and reported in the 
Journal of the Royal Army Medical 
Corps, demonstrate very clearly that un- 
clean hands play an important roll in 
the spread of typhoid fever. His con- 
clusions are based upon repealed bac- 
teriological examinations of fingers of 
urinary and fecal carriers ot typhoid 
bacteria. 

These experiments further proved that 
the bacillus typhosis and other fecal or- 
ganisms can be isolated from the fingers 
of carriers by proper cleanliness, and 
this fact is of great importance in con- 
nection with the contamination of food- 
stuffs as well as with the spread of the 
disease. 

Since it is the unknown typhoid car- 
rier who is innocently responsible for 
contamination, the necessity for absolute 
cleanliness everywhere is essential. In 
this connection the report of Mr. H. N. 
Jones, Bacteriologist of the Massa- 
chusetts State Board ot Health, is of 



"A considerable portion of public 
roller towels become contaminated with 
human feces. An unknown number ot 
human carriers have typhoid bacilli in 
their feces. How many cases of typhoid 
fever are contracted through contact 
with soiled roller towels P" 

Dr. M. A. Richardson, of the Massa- 
chusetts Board of Health, says : 

"As far as unclean hands are con- 
cerned our course as regards typhoid 
infection would seem to resolve itself 
into the two following propositions : 
First, tliat inasmuch as no person can be 
absolutely certain that he is not a typhoid 
carrier (for, of course, it is well known 
that a healthy human being, and espe- 
cially those attendant upon typhoid pa- 
tients, may become a temporary typhoid 
carrier, even though he has not suffered 
from the disease itself) every one 
should, as far as possible, wash his 
hands with scrupulous care after any 
possible contamination with feces or 
urine, and, secondly, that no one should 
Ihink of handling food, either for his 
own use or for others, without carefully 
washing his hands." 

Carefully washing the hands implies 
the use of a soap which will effectually 
destroy typhoid bacteria. Synol Soap 
has a remarkable germicidal power. A 
five per cent, solution kilts typhoid bac- 
teria in fifty seconds; it softens and 
dissolves dirt, grease and scale in which 
bacteria are imbedded, exposing them to 
the action of the germicide. It is non- 
injurious to the cuticle, and hs use will 
go a great ways toward minimizing the 
chances of carrying infection. 



— The preparation of surgical absor- 
bent cotton and surgical dressings made 
of cotton, from the fiber to the finished 
product, requires In every step of the 
process the same skill and accuracy 
that should be manifested in the prep- 
aration of every medicinal agent. 



Pneumonia. — Dr. C, N. Owen, of Lit- 
tleton, W. Va., writes that he has been 
using blisters in p.ieumonia in a prac- 
tice of 48 years, a,id has never lost a 
patient under 60 years of age. He gives 
an instance of a blister being used in 
the treatment of pneumonia m a babe 
eight months old, with the happiest re- 



Red Cross Notes 



101 



A TIME-HONORED PLASTER 

Probably the oldest plaster on the 
American market is De La Cour's Ad- 
hesive Plaster. This plaster has had a 
continuous sale since 1825. Its manu- 
facture during all of this time has been 
in the family of the originator. 

Joseph Giarles De La Cour was the 
original manufacturer of De La Cour's 



During the Civil War large quantities 
of this plaster were supplied to the 
army and navy, and the laboratory was 
moved to larger quarters at Front and 
Arch streets, Camden, N. J. 

The making of this plaster descended 
through the family of the originator to 
Joseph Carl De La Cour, a graduate of 
the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy, 
who became identified with the /. Ell- 
wood Lee Company, and from this 




Adhesive Plaster. His father, Joseph 
Loriot Stanislaus De La Cour, was a 
Frenchman by birth, who came to this 
country during the war of 1812 and 
offered his services in the defense of 
the United States. 

The younger De La Cour became one 
of the pioneer pharmacists of Camden, 
New Jersey, and engaged in the manu- 
facture of the old-fashioned kid plas- 
ters, court plasters, and a general line 
of pharmaceutical preparations. 

He worked out a new formula for an 
adhesive designed to produce a plaster 
that would not irritate the most tender 
skin, and also prevent the mass from 
drying out, cracking and peeling off the 
cloth. Having tried various backings 
upon which to spread the mass, such as 
linen, muslin, etc., it was found neces- 
sary to get up a special fabric so treated 
that the plaster mass would adhere to 
the surface and at the same time not 
be absorbed by the cloth when exposed 
to high temperature. The new product 
was put upon the market as De La 
Cour's Improved Adhesive Plaster and 
was extensively used in hospitals and 
in the army and navy of the United 
States. 

Owing to its superior keeping qual- 
ities, and the fact that it was non-irri- 
tating, it at once became popular in 
tropical America, and today enjoys a 
large sale in the West Indies and South 
American countries, where it has never 
been replaced to any extent by the rub- 
ber base adhesive plaster. 



source the manufacture of this time- 
honored plaster has passed into the 
hands of Johnson & Johnson. 

De La Courts Adhesive Plaster is 
essentially a diachylon, or lead-base, 
plaster mass. As manufactured by 
Johnson & Johnson it is spread upon a 
highly calendered, specially prepared, 
fine muslin. In this particular it is su- 
perior to the foreign and other imita- 
tions, which are, for the most part, 
spread upon a gauze-like material that 
is filled with starch, and which is stiff 
and hard to adjust. 

The distinction of De La Cour's 
Plaster from those made with a rubber 
base is that De La Cour's Plaster is 
warmed before applying, yet its compo- 
sition is such that absolutely no irrita- 
tion is produced, even when applied to 
the most delicate skin. This fact makes 
De La Cour's Plaster valuable, espe- 
cially in cases of contusion, cuts and 
other places where there is likely to be 
suppuration or inflammation. The ap- 
plication of De La Cour's Plaster is in- 
variably followed by a soft and healing 
effect. There is a large use for De La 
Cour's Plaster in cases where the dress- 
ing must be retained in position for a 
long time, for orthopedic work and for 
use among children. 

De La Cour's Adhesive Plaster may 
be obtained in the following styles: 

On strong cotton cloth — 5-yard^ rolls, 
14 inches wide; 1-yard rolls, 7 inches 
wide. 

On moleskin — 5-yard rolls, 12 inches 
wide ; 1-yard rolls, 6 inches wide. 



— Camphenol is an excellent antiseptic 
mouth wash ; two or three drops in a 
tumbler of water is sufficient 



102 



Red Cross Notes 



THE GERMICIDAL POWER OF 
CAMPHENOL AND SYNOL SOAP 

An account of experiences with the Hygienic 
Laboratory Method _ of tinding the phenol 
coefficient of germicides. 

Contribution from the Scientific Department 
of Johnson & Johnson. 

There has developed during recent 
years, on the part of bacteriologists and 
of others, a desire to standardize all 
products offered for sale. From this 
has arisen an attempt to devise a meth- 
od of comparing the disinfecting or 
germ-killing power of disinfectants with 
some standard, and of expressing the 
results in definite figures. 

The "Rideal-Walker" method and 
later the "Lancet" method were devel- 
(jpcd in England, and have been exten- 
sively discussed and tried. 

The Hygienic Laboratory Method 

In 1912 there was published by the 
Public Health and Marine Hospital 
Service of the United States a pamphlet 
known as Hygienic Laboratory Bulletin 
No. 82. This contained a **Method of 
Standardizing Disinfectants" by John F. 
Anderson and Thomas B. McClintic. 
The method is known as the "Hygienic 
Laboratory Method." It is now gener- 
ally recognized as the official procedure 
for determining the value of disinfec- 
tants. 

The method is an attempt to express 
a comparison between the germ-killing 
power of any given disinfectant and 
pure carbolic acid (phenol), the germ- 
killing power of carbolic acid being 
taken as a standard. The germ-killing 
power upon the organism selected — ty- 
phoid bacillus — and under conditions 
named, being called unity (1.00), the 
germ-killing power of the disinfectant 
being tested upon the same organism 
and under the same conditions, is ex- 
pressed as the phenol coefficient. In 
other words, its germ-killing power is 
expressed in terms of phenol or car- 
bolic acid. 

The Hygienic Laboratory Method 
may be stated briefly as follows : 

A culture of the bacillus typhosis 
(typhoid bacillus) is made in a nutrient 
broth. A definite quantity of this^ viru- 
lent culture is mixed with a solution of 
phenol of definite strength, also another 
definite quantity with a solution of 
known strength of the disinfectant to 
* "-"d is mixed with another portion 



of the virulent culture. These mixtures 
of disinfectant and culture are allowed 
to stand for definite periods of time 
{2h to 15 minutes) at a definite tem- 
perature. 

At the end of the time a loopful of 
the culture which has been acted upon 
I'.y the disinfectant is transferred to 
fresh nutrient broth and subjected to 
incubation to ascertain whether the 
bacillus has been destroyed, or will 
grow. 

The strength of the solution of car- 
bolic acid required to kill the bacillus in 
a given time is taken as 1, and com- 
pared with the action of the disinfec- 
tant under test in the same strength so- 
lution for the same time. 

The testing laboratory of Johnson & 
Johnson has tried out the method thor- 
oughly, and applied it to examination of 
preparations made by them which lay 
claim to germicidal properties. 

This being a new and not yet well- 
tried method, they have caused their 
tests to be duplicated by an outside in- 
dependent laboratory, so that notes and 
results could be compared in order to 
arrive at a thoroughly satisfactory and 
safe conclusion. This work was done 
by the Lederle Laboratories, of New 
York City, as will be referred to later. 

Our formula for the nutrient broth, 
or culture medium, was : 

Liebig's Beef Extract.. 3 grams 

Peptone (Witte) 10 grams 

Water 1000 grams 

Salt 5 grams 

Reaction plus 1.5% 

Manipulation. — To a novice in the 
manipulation of this method it seems to 
be very difficult to keep a correct record 
of the position and contents of each of 
the many tubes, for the work must be 
done rapidly and practically automat- 
ically. 

We therefore constructed a time-table 
for working by the clock from any even 
hour, so that the attention need not be 
taken from the actual manipulation. 

In the official method tests are made 
for 2i, 5, 7i, 10, 12i and 15 minutes. 
Only the 2i and 15 minute figures are 
used in calculation of results. 

Merck's (silver label) phenol is pre- 
scribed in the official method. This was 
used in some of our tests, and in other 
series Powers-Weightman-Rosengarten 
Company's make was employed. 



Red Cross Notes 



103 



The Organtstn. — In our work we 
used a culture of B. Typhosis secured 
originally from H. K. Mulford Com- 
pany. We used this in all work, each 
series of tests being made with a cul- 
ture that had been transferred to fresh 
tubes of broth on each of three consec- 
utive days and incubated at 37 degrees 
C. for the 24-hour periods between the 
transfers. 

The Lederle Laboratories used the 
so-called Hopkins strain of B. Typho- 
sis. 

Source of Samples. — The samples of 
Camphenol and Synol Soap used by 
Lederle Laboratories were purchased in 
the open market from sources unknown 
to Johnson & Johnson. The samples 
used in the Johnson & Johnson tests 
were taken from the shelves of the 
shipping room at the works. 

Conclusions. — ^The results given here 
were all checked by duplicate series, 
both by the Johnson & Johnson and the 
Lederle Laboratories. 

On the whole, these results are prob- 
ably as nearly concordant as any two 
operators could secure in tests of this 
kind. 

We see no reason why the Hygienic 
Laboratory Methods should not con- 
tinue to be satisfactory and of sufficient 
accuracy to remain as a standard Amer- 
ican method for determining the phe- 
nol coefficient of disinfectants. 

Phenol Coefficients 

Camphenol (Lederle) 3.46 

Camphenol (J. & J.) 3.20 

Synol Soap (Lederle) 41 

Synol Soap (J. & J.) 47 

Summary 

A dilution of Phenol 1 to 80 kills the 
typhoid organism in two and one-half 
minutes. 

A dilution of Phenol 1 to 100 kills the 
typhoid organism in fifteen minutes. 

A dilution of Camphenol 1 to 275 kills 
the typhoid organism in two and one- 
half minutes. 

A dilution of Camphenol 1 to 350 kills 
the typhoid organism in fifteen minutes. 

A dilution of Synol Soap 1-30 kills the 
typhoid organism in two and one-half 
minutes. 

A dilution of Synol Soap 1-45 kills the 
typhoid organism in fifteen minutes. 



UMBILICAL HERNIA IN INFANTS 

(Contributed) 

Umbilical hernia in very young chil- 
dren is not rare. A typical tumor, which 
becomes tense and large at every cry, 
suggests the diagnosis and precludes 
the likelihood of cure without attention. 
The fact, however, that this condition 
is easily amenable to treatment, with 
very little trouble and chance of fail- 
ure, makes the prognosis a good one. 

The following is a plan of treatment 
which will be found very effective: 

Gean the whole abdominal wall with 
Synol Soap and water. This is anti- 
septic, cleansing and non-irritating. 
Dust the skin around the navel with 
equal parts of Johnson's Toilet and 
Baby Powder and stearate of zinc. 
Take a small quantity of clean absor- 
bent cotton, put some of the powder 
over the cotton, roll it into a tight wad 
and place it immediately over the tumor 
and reduce it. Then grasp a fold of 
skin on either side of the tumor and at- 
tach thereto strips of Z O Adhesive 
Plaster, which must be firmly anchored 
from side to side. The whole area is 
finally covered with several layers of 
Z O Adhesive Strips, assuring the ut- 
most rigidity. 

The strips remain intact for from 
two to three weeks; if they become 
loosened they must be reapplied. It is 
essential to keep the child quiet during 
this operation to prevent forcing out of 
tumor. The second strapping is again 
to be left on about two or three weeks. 
Subsequently a tight band may be worn 
for six weeks to give additional support. 



A BULLET IN THE HEART FOR 
THIRTY-SEVEN YEARS 

A man recently died of cancer in 
Ohio, who claimed that he had a bullet 
in his heart which he had carried since 
he was shot by a bushwhacker in the 
civil war, and he requested that after 
his death an autopsy be made. The 
autopsy was made by Dr. O. B. Beer, 
who reports, in the Cincinnati Lancet" 
Clinic, that he found the bullet in the 
heart as claimed. It had entered the 
left chest and, passing through the left 
lung, entered the left ventricle, where it 
was found thirty-seven years afterwards. 



Red Cross Notes 



For obvious reasons tlie surgeon's 
hands should be smooth and soft and 
tlie skin unbroken. Roughening and 
cracking of the skin may result from ; 

First, undeanliness. Contact with dirt 
and grit tliat becomes rubbed into the 
surface by constant friction; 

Second, improper and inefficient wash- 
ing. The use of hard water, the use of 



Liquid Soap for constant every-day dm 
for the surgeon and physician, we have 
been influenced by an extensive experi- 
ence with its use, and a knowledge of its 
peculiar fitness to accomplish what ts de- 
sired, based upon most thorough and 
painstaking experimentation. It is pre- 
pared with s perfectly pure soap base, 
no combined with the antiseptic that the 
one aids the other. Hence, in using it, 
asepsis of the surface washed with it is 
accomplished by both a mechanical and 
chemical process. This cleanliness is ob- 
tained without injuring the skin; on the 



impure, irntatmg soaps and soaps con- 
taining alcohol or formalin, and not rins- 
ing the soap off thoroughly after 
■washing; 

Third, the use of chemical antiseptics 
through the impression that they secure 
asepsis ; 

Fourth, exposure to cold or contact 
with coarse woolen clothing worn during 
cold weather, and wearing woolen or 
other gloves that irritate the skin or de- 
prive it of its moisture and natural oil. 

If a pure soap is employed it is pos- 
sible to wash the hands thoroughly from 
fifteen to twenty times a day without 
irritation to the skin surface. Kid or 
leather gloves, unlined or silk lined, 
should be worn, or a lisle glove in 



The hands should be washed often 
during the day, and at least once or twice 
with the nail brush, particularly on retir- 
ing. The nails should be kept closely 
trimmed, leaving no space under them 
for dirt to collect. Hang-nails and cal- 
lous about the fingers should be 
trimmed off, and rough places about the 
fingers and nails should be smoothed 
down with fine sandpaper. 

In recommending Synol Antiseptic 



contrary, the surface is rendered smooth 
and soft, and it remains so when this 
soap is employed exclusively. 

Therefore, Synol Soap should be used 
constantly for washing the hands, 
even for ordinary washing, because it 
cleans the surface better and more 
surely than any other soa|>, keeps the 
skin smooth and preserves its integrity. 

The hands should be washed in water 
neither too cold nor too hot. Running 
water of a satisfactory temperature is 
best. They should first be wet with the 
water, then a teaspoonful of the liquid 
Synol is poured into the palm of one 
hand and with the other it is thoroughly 
rubbed into the surface, briskly, until it 
lathers well. This is rinsed off and the 
process is repeated with a second supply 
of soap. Then the soap is to be rinsed 
off completely. 

The nail brush need not be used ex- 
cept when extra cleanliness or absolute 
asepsis is required, or when the hands 
have been contaminated by contact with 
pus or other infecting discharges. The 
nail brush could well be used, however, 
once or twice a day under ordinary con- 
, and before going to bed at night. 
"" --■' - skins will chap 



In cold weather s 



Red Cross Notes 



or become rough if washed often, even 
if the best soap is usedj hence, wlien 
frequent washing is required, and par- 
ticularly when a nail brush is used, . 



a teaspoonful of the following n 



ture be applied to the hands and nibbed 
in well after (hey have been washed and 
dried. This is not to be wiped off, but 
allowed to dry on the hands : 

Rosae Five drops 

Cajuputi Fifteen drops 

Glycerine One ounce 

Spts. Myrciae Three ounces 

When bad chapping or cracking has 
occurred wash the hands thoroughly and 
apply at night a pure cold cream which 
is made up with glycerine and lanolin. 
Repeat this in the morning and wear 
cotton gloves constantly during the day, 
until the surface becomes smooth. 

Synol Liquid Soap is recommended 
for every-day ordinary use, as well as 
for preparing for operative work, be- 
cause it is clean, and because It cleans 
the hands effectually and keeps their sur- 
face smooth and soft, 

SIMPLIOTY IN TECHNIQUE 
There are almost as many different 
methods as there are men. This is just 
as true in medicine and surgery as in 
other professions. The reason therefor 
is perhaps a constant desire for im- 
provement and individuality ; but in- 
stead of attaining simplicity they help 
to complicate methods. 

In my routine work, which comprises 
a fairly large surgical and medical prac- 
tice, I have tried to do things in the 
simplest possible way. This saves time, 
trouble and frayed nerves. One very 



often finds in text-books the most cum- 
bersome instructions regarding asepsis; 
it is well-nigh impossible to carry out 
the strictures imposed upon the reader. 
I have tried, therefore, to arrange for 
myself a method at once simple and 
useful by which I can arrive at the de- 
sired end. Preparations for any pro- 
cedure strain the nerves of patients, and 
the less time consumed the better for all. 

be boiled if there is time, but if in con- 
tinuous use, as in clinic work, where a 
large number of cases are already in- 
fected, boiling may take too long, and I 
have found that washing the instru- 
ments in a Synol Sor.p solution, then 
passing them through a solution of car- 
bolic acid and rinsing in alcohol, is a 
quick procedure, and effectively renders 
them sterile enough for all purposes. 

The hands are easily steriliied by 
scrubbing with Synol Soap, and this also 
answers for the nurse, attendants, or 
for any area that needs cleansing (tf 
shaving. The operating field is then 
painted with tincture of iodine. Tinc- 
ture of iodine is sufficiently antiseptic 
to render needless any other antiseptic 
solution, such as bichloride or carbolic 
acid. Iodine stains can be subsequently 
removed with a solution of sodium 
hyposulphite. 

The closing of skin wounds with ad- 
hesive plaster, instead of ligatures, has 
saved me a great deal of time, and the 
patients a lot of trouble and pain. 
Where ligatures are needed I generally 
use the Johnson & Johnson envelope, 
all sterile and ready for instant use. 
Catgut in glass tubes is used occasion- 
ally. As a rule I don't boil them ; they 
are either washed with Synol Soap or 
immersed in a twenty-five per cent, so- 
lution of tincture of iodine- That an- 
swers for every purpose. It dissolves 
the grease which may be on the ^lass 
and saves much time. That's the object. 

All my dressings are bought in ready 
packages, and when needed for opera- 
tions are simply baked in the oven with 
the towels, etc. 

This is a practical age, and each of 
us devi.ses a means which leads to suc- 
cess. Some take up a lot of time doing 
it. My idea is to do it well — and quick. 

This may interest some of your read- 
ers. Fraternally yours, 

Dr. J. C. McGuire. 



Red Cross Notes 



THE DOCTOR'S PART IN FIRST 
AID 
Curiously enough doclors do not al- 
ways agree in their attitude toward the 
recent developments in respect to first 
aid to the injured. There are members 
of the profession who eschew it entirety, 
asEumtng that it has a tendency to he- 
come meddlesome and injurious ralhcr 
than helpful ; others foreseeing or hoping 



First-aid-to-lhe-injured has aptly been 
described as a bridge between an acci- 
dent and medical or surgical assistance, 
and over this bridge the injured per- 
son is to be carried from the place of 
injury to a place of treatment Once 
the bridge is crossed and the injured 
person is placed in the hands of a mfd- 
ical attendant (or hospital), first aid is 
at an end. 



Tint Aid U > bridge < 



which the Injured peraoD is ci 



pcrnianent medical IrcaWait 



that movemenis of this cliaractcr tend in 
their finality lo the benefit of all, give to 
it their cordial endorsement and in many 
instances eniei* heartily into the work. 
Divergence of opinion is in some re- 
spects brought about by misapprehension 
of the legitimate field for first aid. 

We are apt to associate first aid with 
philanthropic movements and the ad- 
vance of modern times. Records, how- 
ever, show that the ancient Egyptian, 
Greek and Roman military expeditions 
had means by which they transferred a 
supply of medicaments and appliances 
for emergency use. Exploring expedi- 
tions and missionaries have alway5 given 
attention to supplies of this character. 

First aid is apt to be associated with 
the work of the Red Cross societies and 
movements of a similar character. This 
is incorrect. These associations had 
their origin in an attempt to mitigate 
the horrors of war by becoming an arm 
of the military service and applying the 
principles of humanity and neutrality 
through an organization or a trained 
staff. The aim of the modern first aid 
movement is quite different. 



Such action as may be taken to relieve 
the injured person from immediate sni- 
fering and prevent further injury, or 
action intended to remove the patient to 
a place lo receive needed medical or 
surgical attention, is first aid. Such ac- 
tion is first aid, whoever may render it 
A person trained in first aid, a physician, 
or a nurse, may render more skillful aid 
than one who is untrained, but in ever; 
instance the action is first aid. 

First aid teachers, workers and train- 
ers are quite apt to go beyond the scope 
and limitation of the true idea of the 
foundation of first aid as here outlined. 
For example, the treatment and care of 
injuries, the administration of medicines, 
the diagnosis and treatment of disease 
are no part of first aid work. It Is un- 
doubtedly a mistakt for first aid leacli- 
ers to attempt to train workers in anat- 
omy or physiology, except when limited 
to the most elementary phases ; certainly 
it is far outside the principles of first aid 
to attempt the treatment of disease, the 
after-care of wounds, the setting of frac- 
tures and the like. It would seem to be 
dangerous for first aid workers to at- 
tempt the administration of hypodermic 
injections, or any form of treatment 
other than the simplest temporary meas- 
ures. 



Red Oo» Notes 



It is quite apparent that first aid 
does not aim to train workers to be- 
come surgeons or doctors ; it simply 
desires to explain to the general public 
how its members can be of service in 
an emergency and while waiting for 
the doctor. 

It is also of very great importance 
to the medical man, when he arrives at 
the scene of an accident, to find on the 
spot someone capable of giving him 
material assistance, and with sufficient 
training and intelligence to receive and 
execute his orders with promptness and 
dispatch. Such a one is generally found 
in the person of the modern first aid 
student, for, however slight may be his 
knowledge, he makes a far more effi- 
cient assistant to the doctor than an 
bdividual without any such elemental 
training, who often loses his head on 
the occurrence of the slightest acci- 
dent, gets panic-stricken or faints at the 
sight of blood, becoming himself a. sub- 
ject for first aid. 

Many a valuable life might have been 
saved did the doctor have someone at 
hand with even a rudimentary knowl- 
edge of the principles of first aid, to 
whom he could delegate some of the 
work devolving upon him at a critical 
moment; in a word, to multiply himself. 
Every surgeon who has assisted at the 
scene of an accident will recall such an 
occasion. 

The work of first aid is of a pallia- 
tive nature ; it is to lessen suffering and 
to prevent pain. The point is aptly ex- 

Jressed in the introductory pages of 
ohnson's First Aid Manual : 

> whose hands this 



layman into 



'b^c the 



child." 

"An of the First Aid Manuals 
printed, if ulien together, would 



the patient in the hands of a 



1 ^lace 



The development of modem first aid 
in its legitimate field is entilled to the 
hearty co-operation of all members^ of 
the medical and surgical profession, 
many of whom have already become 
hearty workers and supporters in asso- 



Q. A, Ward's oripnal "Good Samaritan." 
«nted lo the PQljclinic Hospital, No. 341 
It SOih Street, New Yorlc City, by the sculp- 



ciaiions, schools, and industrial systems, 
devoting much time to giving elemental 
instruction on the best course to pur- 
sue in case of accident. First aid prin- 
ciples are being embodied in the insti- 
tution of measures tending to prevent 
the spread of contagious disease. 

Physicians generally are quite ready . 
lo recognize— with a self-sacrificing 
spirit which is unknown outside of the . 
medical and surgical profession— the ad- 
visability of promoting every movement 
that bids fair to be for the good of 
humanity. 

Upon the medical and surgical pro- 
fession devolves the task of doing their 
part — the placing of the practical appli- 
cation of first aid in its right relation, 
and holding it to '"s own legitimate 
place. When properly carried out, first 
aid becomes a substantial aid and a 
benefit to mankind. 




This chart opens a new chapter in the spread of rational first aid. It is a 
teaching chart and a complete practical guide to first aid work. It is a 
working chart — an art creation — anatomically and scientifically correct. It covers 
the whole range of first aid in picture and text, including bleeding, fractures, band- 
aging, fainting, ilrowning, machinery and electrical accidents, burns and scalds, with 
a table of antidotes, etc. 



a First Aid 

^idCWt 



■art 



Useful 

for the doctor 

in teaching 

and 
explaining 
First Aid. 
Suitable for 

schools, 

organizations, 

factories and 

shops. 



This most complete, practical and convenient First Aid Chart will appeal to the 
doctor and the nurse as well as to the instructor in first aid and the lay student 
It embraces instructions and systems that can safely be placed in the hands of 
classes, schools, teams, factories, siiops, or in the home. It teaches what to do be- 
fore the doctor comes and^ — when to stop. 

This chart is sold by leading druggists and supply houses, or will be sent post- 
paid upon receipt of price. 

Price, $3.00, carriage paid. 



' Red Cross Notes 

A FIRST AID GUIDE 

Doctors are now being asked about first aid. These inquiries 
come from organizations, factories, schools and indeed from every- 
body, for first aid information is now everywhere in demand. 

Here is a book that will help you answer all those questions 
about outfits, literature, sup- 
plies and the like, which apply 
to first aid, Johnson|s First 
Aid Catalog describes and 
illustrates the First Aid Out- 
fits which they supply to 
factories, mines, railways, 
schools, institutions, etc., and 
gives the uses of the various ma- 
terials in the outfits, together 
with a list of all available sup- 
plies and literature for instruct- 
ors and students. 

This catalog will be sent free 
to any doctor or first aid in- 
structor who will write for it. 

When writing specify First 
Aid Catalog No. 110. 

Address: First Aid Depart- 
ment, Johnson & Johnson, New 
Brunswick, N, J. 



DON'T WASH THE HANDS UNLESS YOU CAN DO IT WELL 
Von Eiselsberg, of Vienna, is inclined antiseptic soap, which emulsifies, and 
to discard the use of all the accepted mjices with the organic matter of the 
antiseptic solutions in the first treatment skin, the sweat, etc., thus allowing per- 
of urgent surgical dressing. feet germicidal action to take place? 
He says that if the surgeon is not This would be the ideal procedure, meet- 
situated so that he can wash his hands ing all the objections that von Eiselsberg 
thoroughly, he had belter not wash properly raises to the ordinary methods 
(hem at all, for the moisture and «rub- of hand- sterilization. 
bing will only get the bacteria loose, so And such a soap is available in John- 
that they will the more easily get into son & Johnson's Synol. It ofTers a pow- 
the wound. ^■'f"! combination of cleansing and 

In all of which we believe von Eisels- germicidal value, 
berg displays a great deal of good com- The typhoid bacillus is killed in two 
mon sense, not to say scientific acumen, minutes liy a three per cent solution, 
in so far as his position relates to the For office work, where antiseptic so- 
use of the commonly employed solutions lutions are difficult to attain properly, 
and the ordinary cleansing soaps. Synol adequately fills a genuine want- 
But what if one can find a genuinely American Journal of CUmcal Medicine. 



Red Cross Notes 



111 



PREPARATION FOR OPERATION 

(Contributed) 

The Hands 

Of primary importance to the operator 
is the sterility of his hands. They must 
at once be surgically clean, as well as 
smooth. Harsh antiseptics, such as bi- 
chloride or carbolic acid, may accom- 
plish the one, but are certain to fail in 
the othen Many surgeons in past years 
have used Synol Soap, a nail brush and 
running water as their only sterilizing 
agent 

The following technique produces a 
sterile surface, as has been proven by 
many laboratory tests, and besides it 
leaves the skin smooth and soft: 

The hands are first immersed in wa- 
ter as warm as can be comfortably borne 
to wet them thoroughly, rubbing them 
together to accomplish this more thor- 
oughly. Then a quantity of the Synol 
is poured into the palm of one hand, and 
it is rubbed well into the whole surface 
by briskly rubbing one hand with the 
other. Then it is rinsed off under a 
stream of water from the basin faucet, 
or by dipping them into a basin of warm 
water. A quantity of the Synol is then 
poured on a stiff nail brush, previously 
sterilized, and every part of the hands, 
the fingers, about the nails, and under 
the nails particularly, is scrubbed vigor- 
ously for two minutes (actual time). 

The lather is now rinsed off, and the 
nails, which should be kept short, are 
carefully cleaned with a dull nail blade 
or a flat pointed stick. Then taking a 
fresh supply of the Synol on the nail 
brush, the hands, fingers and nails are 
again scrubbed vigorously for three min- 
utes more, after which the soap is rinsed 
off with sterile water as warm as can be 
comfortably borne. If this is done thor- 
oughly the hands will be sterile. 

When the forearms are to be sterilized 
with the hands, another five minutes 
must be consumed for this. The sur- 
face of the forearm, including the elbow 
and a little way above it, is first thor- 
oughly wet with warm water. Then 
the pure Synol is rubbed into the whole 
surface with the hand, then with a coarse 
cloth, upon which some of the Synol is 
poured. This should . consume two or 
three minutes, then the soap is rinsed 
off under a stream of hot water. After 
this the surface should be scrubbed With 



nail brush and Synol for two minutes, 
and the soap rinsed off several times 
with hot sterile water. 

Only a sterile towel should be used 
for drying the hands. 

When running water is not used for 
rinsing, and this is done by dipping 
the hands into a basin of water, the 
basin should be emptied and refilled 
with fresh water after the preliminary 
washing, and again after the first scrub- 
bing. Running water is much better 
for rinsing. Where this is not avail- 
able the rinsing may be done by pour- 
ing the water over the hands from a 
pitcher. 

Soap, to render the skin thoroughly 
clean, must be decidedly alkaline. The 
presence of the alkali is necessary to 
soften the horny skin scurf, to emulsify 
the layers of fat and to neutralize the 
fat acids deeply embedded and dried 
hard in the depressions of the epider- 
mis. 

But herein lies the difficulty. The 
highly alkaline soaps obtainable — soft 
soap, green soap or even the laundry 
soaps — are caustic in action, and the 
surgeon can see in the scrub-woman's 
hands the energetic action resulting 
from their continuous use. The ordi- 
nary alkaline soaps are very pulpy and 
sticky, and this stickiness increases with 
the alkaline content. It is evident that 
soap of this character would embarrass 
the operator by making the skin rough, 
and by binding the infective material 
under a slimy coat. 

The requirement is for a soap that is 
in itself soluble, smooth, and sufficiently 
alkaline to soften, dissolve and emul- 
sify the secretions of the epidermis, 
whatever may be their nature, and by 
thus rendering them soluble make them 
removable by water. All this must be 
accomplished without injuring the tex- 
ture of the skin. 

And Synol Soap does this. 

The Field of Operation 

The necessity for a sterile operating 
field has caused many complicated pro- 
cedures. Simplicity and certainty being 
the keynote of modern surgery, we sug- 
gest an effective method of sterilization 
which renders the operating field as 
surgically clean as any skin surface can 
be made. 

The surface should first be lathered 
with the Synol, then shaved closely, re- 



112 



Red Cross Notes 



moving all hairs. A piece of gauze, 
folded into four or eight thicknesses, 
large enough to cover the surface for 
three or four inches on all sides of the 
proposed incision, is spread thickly with 
Synol undiluted, so as to saturate it. 
This is done by placing the folded gauze 
on a flat, dean surface, and pouring the 
Synol over it, spreading it over the sur- 
face with a clean knife or spoon. This 
pad of gauze, saturated with Synol, is 
laid over the surface of the skin, cov- 
ering the site of the proposed incision, 
and over this is placed a layer of sterile 
cotton, which is held in place by strips 
of Z O Adhesive Plaster and a bandage. 

This is permitted to remain for from 
four to six hours, when it is removed 
and the surface scrubbed with nail 
brush and Synol, then rinsed off with 
warm sterile water and dried with ster- 
ile gauze, and afterwards covered with 
a pad of dry sterile gauze, which is not 
removed until the patient is placed on 
the operating table. 

This process is described for the ben- 
efit of those who believe a soap poul- 
tice necessary before incising the skin. 
Thorough scrubbing with Synol is suf- 
ficient to sterilize the skin. 

The method advised, which is abso- 
lutely reliable, is to scrub the surface 
thoroughly with a gauze pad or nail 
brush saturated with Synol, and wash 
off with sterile water as hot as can be 
comfortably borne. Then the surface 
should be shaved and again scrubbed. 
This is done twelve hours before the 
operation, and a pad of sterile gauze is 
placed over the surface scrubbed and 
held in place by a bandage. 

On thin-skinned, sensitive women the 
nail brush cannot be used. 

When the abdomen is to be prepared 
for incision the whole surface from the 
ensilform cartilage to the pubes, and 
out to the limit on both sides, is to be 
scrubbed and shaved. The depression 
of the umbilicus must be given careful 
attention, and in addition to scrubbing 
with nail brush, the Synol must be 
poured into it and then it should be 
scrubbed thoroughly with a pledget of 
gauze grasped in forceps, or wrapped 
around a blunt stick or applicator. 

The scrubbing should always be re- 
peated on the table, and after the soap 
has been rinsed off with plain, hot, ster- 
ile water, the part may be rinsed asrain 
with warm, sterile, normal salt solution, 



and dried. Then the surface is swabbed 
with alcohol, allowed to dry thoroughly, 
and the whole area is painted with tinc- 
ture of iodine. 

This is a modern and efficient way, 
and is practised in most hospitals. 

Sterilizing the Room for Operation 
IN Private Homes 

It is the lot of only a small number of 
surgeons to have hospital facilities for 
their operations. The great majority 
of able men throughout this country 
have to do their work in private homes 
of varying degrees of cleanliness, and 
in order to do justice to their skill and 
to their patients they have to exercise 
great care in the preparation of the 
room wherein the operations are per- 
formed. 

Cleanliness is a great adjunct to the 
success of an operation, and in carrying 
out the methods of modern asepsis the 
few principles recommended here will 
prove quite useful. 

Wherever possible the operation 
should take place in a separate room 
from that containing the patient's bed, 
but on the same floor with, and con- 
venient to it. The curtains and draper- 
ies, as well as all superfluous furniture, 
chairs and sofas, should be removed; 
only wooden or cane-seated chairs 
should be retained. After the floor has 
been gone over thoroughly with a stiff 
broom or brush, to remove superficial 
or loose dirt and that in the cracks, it 
should be scrubbed thoroughly with 
Synol Soap, wetting the floor first, then 
sprinkling it plentifully and scrubbing 
with a good stiff brush. The soap aft- 
erwards is rinsed off with a solution of 
Synol, two tablespoonfuls to a pail of 
hot water. 

The woodwork, particularly over the 
doors and window frames, should be 
washed with the same solution, and, 
where feasible, the walls should also be 
washed with it. If they are kalsomined 
walls they, and the ceiling, should be 
given a fresh coat. If the walls are 
papered they must be wiped carefully 
with a damp cloth, rinsing it in a five 
per cent, solution oiF Synol. Every piece 
of furniture that remains in the room 
should be washed well, all over, with a 
solution of Synol, two tablespoonfuls to 
a pail of water. 

Everything to be used about the op- 
eration — towels, sheets, etc., — should be 



Red Cross Notes 



113 



first washed thoroughly, then boiled for 
ten minutes in a two per cent." solution 
of Synol. Then they are wrung out 
with hands that have been carefully 
sterilized for ten minutes with Synol 
and nail brush. If the wringer is used 
it should be washed carefully before- 
hand with Synol. These articles are 
then hung out to dry in a room free 
from dust, where they can be exposed 
to the sunlight. If the operating room 
has been prepared beforehand they may 
be dried there, and it should be closed 



until everything is ready for the opera- 
tion. 

These directions should be carefully 
carried out wherever an operation of 
any importance is to be done in a pri- 
vate house, and the preparation de- 
scribed may be satisfactorily accom- 
plished under the direction of the phy- 
sician, without the aid of a trained 
nurse, if necessary. For minor opera- 
tions this extensive preparation is not 
absolutely imperative, but it is always 
better if there is sufficient time for it. 



HAND THIS BOOK TO EXPECTANT MOTHERS 

It is impossible for the busy practitioner to be always at hand 
to answer questions and give advice during the period of pregnancy. 
Some physicians write out instructions and give them to their pa- 
tients, but this is laborious. 

To satisfy a demand of long standing a booklet, "Hygiene in 
Maternity," has been issued by the Scientific Department of Johnson 
& Johnson. This booklet has been compiled by competent au- 
thorities on obstetrics, and contains all the information which the 





" - 






HYGIENE IN 






MATERNITY 






Sunwtknw ID nadMn gMlMrad &«■ 






+ 






-■•«y CMM te. • il^ *• to kn «■*• 
MNHMNAtJOMOOM 











physician would wish his patient to have, but which he may not 
have time to give personally. 

Many doctors have given it copy of this book to all expectant 
mothers on their list. It contains directions for the diet and general 
care of the patient from the beginning to the end. It is a manual 
of simple advice to which the physician may add such special in- 
structions as he may desire. 

Copies of this book will be sent free on request. 



114 



Red Cross Notes 



KNOTS 

In the practice of surgery the tying 
of knots is a highly important affair, 
much more so indeed than the layman 
could imagine possible. 

The tying or ligating of arteries 
which have been cut, and the sewing or 
suturing of muscles and other tissues, 
all depend finally upon the tying of 
the ends of the thread in a knot. Where 
silk or linen is used there is not much 
trouble experienced from this cause, 
nor is it a matter requiring a high de- 
gree of skill to tie a firm and safe knot 
in these materials. 

However, since the advent of catgut 
and absorbable suture material into 
surgery, surgeons are confronted with 
a new problem and an entirely different 
one. Those who have not tried it a 
little probably have no conception of 
how difficult it is to tie a secure knot 
with wet catgut. It is slippery and soft, 
and because it is a twisted strand it 
squirms to such an extent that a knot 
which would be perfectly firm in any 
other material will slip out readily when 
tied in catgut. The knot being such a 
very important matter, and one upon 
which depends many a human life, sur- 
geons have given it most careful atten- 
tion. In the first place, it is necessary 
that all knots tied in catgut shall be flat 
knots, sometimes also called reef knots, 
and never in any case should granny 
knots be tied, because they will certainly 
slip. 

Now, in order that knots shall be 
most trustworthy, surgeons have de- 
veloped the practice of making two 
throws instead of one throw, as in the 
usual knot. Generally this double 
throw is made only on one of the turns, 
as shown in the illustration. Such a 
knot is much more secure than a knot 
made with two single throws, but right 
here is where the quality of the catgut 
suture material is shown up. Fre- 
quently a surgeon's patience has been 
tried by the sudden snapping off of the 
catgut close to the knot, just as he had 
considered the matter finished. Quite 
properly, surgeons judge the quality of 
catgut from its behavior at the knot, 
but on the other hand operators cannot 
afford to ^e too critical and must not 
expect too much of catgut. It will not 
stand sudden, hard jerks, and any cat- 



gut can be broken if the surgeon saws 
up and down on it. 
^ There is a limit to the amount of ten- 
sion which catgut can withstand. John- 
son & Johnson catgut is the result of 
years of effort and research to produce 
a suture material which is superior to 
any in the world, because it is made of 
clean, pure intestinal material taken 
from lambs and cleaned thoroughly by 
Johnson & Johnson themselves, so that 
we know exactly what it is made of. 
The Johnson & Johnson catgut is dis- 
tinctly more flexible than any other on 
the market. Surgeons will find that in 
using it they can tie the second throw 
down closely on the first without hav- 
ing the gut snap off. 

The second illustration given herein 
shows the right and the wrong way. 
Fig. 1 illustrates a flat knot which has 
not been properly drawn down, so that 
an open loop can be seen between the 
two throws. This is a very dangerous 
condition in which to leave a catgut 
suture, as it will almost certainly slip 
later on. With some makes of catgut 
ligatures it is almost impossible to do 
otherwise, because the catgut will break 
off if it is pulled down firmly and 
tightly where it belongs, as shown in 
Fig. i. Those surgeons who have been 
using such catgut will be surprised 
when they try the Johnson &^ Johnson 
product and find how tightly it can be 
tied without danger of cracking off. 
Fig. 3 shows the double-throw knot 
followed by a single throw, not drawn 
down, and Fig. 4 shows the same drawn 
down correctly. 

Surgeons are further hedged^ about 
with difficulties in regard to tying, in 
that they must not draw the tissues to- 
gether too tightly, otherwise the action 
is to strangulate and interfere greatly 
with circulation, in some cases to such 
an extent that disastrous results are pro- 
duced. 

Some surgeons who have not thor- 
oughly familiarized themselves with the 
latest developments in the preparation 
of absorbable ligatures persist in using 
plain catgut only, not realizing at all 
the tremendous advantages of catgut 
hardened by the chromic processes. As 
a result these surgeons, in order to be 
satisfied that their sutures of plain cat- 
gut will remain sufficiently long before 
absorption, are obliged to use very large 



Red Cross Notes 



sues of catgut, with the necessary con- 
sequence that the knots are extremely 
large and difficult to lie. also slowly and 
difficultly absorbed. The value of the 
chromic process of treatment of catgul 
lies in the fact that such gut is hardened 
and (hereby much more slowly absorbed, 
with the result that very much finer sizes 




No. 1— Flat knot 

No. 2— Flat knot p 

, No. 3— Doublc-lhro' 

""§o. 4-S*'nie knot i 



lightly. 



Hv. 
'ollowed 



by 



can be used, and consequently the knots 
hold better and absorb more quickly and 
evenly. Nature can take care of just so 
much outside material. It would be ad- 
vantageous in many ways if the larger 
sizes of catgut could be eliminated, but 
in this matter we cannot dictate to our 



WD down (igfatlx- 
customers and must give the surgeon 
what he asks for, but we strongly sug- 
gest and urge the use of finer strands 
of chromic calgut in place of larger 
stratids of plain catgut. The strands can 
be doubled where greater tension is 
needed to secure safe results. 



MUSTARD PLASTER 
Mustard plasters are worthy o£ more 
recognition than they get. Their pur- 
pose is to draw the blood, gathered in 
loo great a quantity in any part, to 
some innocent lower surface. Mus- 
tard plasters are particularly recom- 
mended in urgent cases of chills, 
hemorrhage and convulsions ; in pres- 
sure of blood to the head, pneumonia 
and pleurisy, muscular pains, affections 
of the chest and in stomach troubles.— 
TIk Monthly Pharmacist, 



THERE IS NO CHROMIC SILK 
Every once in a while we get an or- 
der for chromic silk ligatures. This 
is an absurdity. Absorbable material 
like catgut may be hardened by chro- 
micizing in order to cause it to resist 
absorption and remain as a useful liga- 
ture for a longer time than if not so 
hardened. Silk is never absorbed any- 
how, so we cannot fathom the mind of 
a man who orders chromic silk. 



Red Cross Notes 



GREEN AND BLACK EFFECTS IN 
THE HOSPITAL 

A unique departure in the matter of 
the coloring for hospital rooms, opera- 
tors' clothing, etc., has been JnauEEuraled 
in St. Luke's Hospital, San Francisco 

Owing to the discomfort, from the 
operator's point of view, of the use of 



A NEW NON-ABSORBABLE 

SUTURE MATERIAL 
Johnson & Johnson have just recently 
put upon the market a new non-absorS- 
able suture material which is intended 
to take the place, in some instances, of 
silkworm-gut. Silkworm-gut is one of 
the best known suture materials and is 



Operating room, St, Lufcf'S Ho«piUl, Sao Francllco, Cal., the 






howing the o 
;lmg 6i black 



glaring white colors, Dr. H. M. Sherman 
conceived the idea of using spinach 
green for the floor and wainscot. The 
floor and the walls are painted with this 
color for six feet above the floor, above 
the level of the six feet of green is 
white and castor tiling, the ceiling itself 
being made of a bright buff. This ar- 
rangement, Dr. Sherman states, illus- 
trates fairly well the optical environ- 
ment out in the fields. 

In addition to this the whole field of 
operation was surrounded with black, 
with the idea of obtaining a surface 
from which no light whatever could be 
reflected. Sheets and towelling were of 
black, the gowns of the operators were 
of black, as well as the covers for the 
instrument tables. 

Dr. Sherman states that they were 
found exceedingly satisfactory, and the 
only objeotion has been the superstitious 
fear that people coming up for an opera- 
lion might consider the somber colors 
a bad omen, but as a matter of fact 
they have found no objection to the 
black dress of the operator or nurses. 



widely used. Its peculiar characteris- 
tics make it a very useful suture for 
certain well-known cases. It is a ma- 
terial which can be boiled in water for 
sterilization and to soften it. It draws 
through the tissues very easily because 
it is so exquisitely smooth. Likewise, 
after its work is done it can be removed 
with great ease and little pain to the 
patient, because of its smooth nature 
It is non-absorbable and remains in the 
tissues in just exactly the condition in 
which it was put into them. Its struc- 
ture is peculiar, in that while it is pen- 
etrable by boiling water to a sufficient 
extent to sterilize and to soften it thor- 
oughly, yet its surface is of such a pe- 
culiar, smooth, polished character that 
the growing cells do not penetrate it. 
with the result that they are not torn 
and dragged loose when the silkworm- 
gut suture is withdrawn. As a conse- 
quence the patient suffers very little 
pain and the cells are but litle mjured. 
All this is in great contrast to the rela- 
tive characteristics of a silk or linen 
thread, which is, on the contrary, pene- 



Red Cross Notes 



117 



trated throughout with cells, and on 
account of its fibrous nature becomes 
firmly imbedded to an extent that makes 
its removal painful, and to a much 
greater degree destructive of the heal- 
ing process. 

There has, however, always been com- 
plaint of silkworm-gut on account of 



and thoroughly useful article. It is 
not quite as smooth and glossy as silk- 
worm-gut, but it is very excellent in 
this respect. It can be boiled in water 
for a reasonable length of time without 
visible harm, and it is prepared in con- 
tinuous lengths of 200 inches. 
Johnson & Johnson pack this material, 




/ '»» 1 V. » 1 1 > EXTRA COAR.Hk 


ONE COJL 
(CanliMMm» Lngrii) 


IMPROVED WORM-GUT 


A Ni^AkMbaMf Satair Mtteiul 





the shortness of its length. Those who 
prepare it or sell it have constantly to 
be in receipt of complaints and inquiries 
about its length. Such manufacturers 
and dealers are equally helpless, because 
the whole trouble lies in the silkworm 
itself, since it cannot produce a longer 
strand. This is especially true in the 
coarser sizes, which are always corre- 
spondingly shorter than the finer sizes. 
It is more or less easy to secure fine 
silkworm-gut up to seventeen inches 'n 
length, but rare to find the extra coarse 
of a greater^ length than thirteen inches. 
This material is prepared chiefly in 
Spain and Italy, and the extra long gut 
can only be secured by paying a high 
price for having it selected out. The 
manufacturers and dealers in this coun- 
try do not do this, as there is an un- 
willingness to pay exorbitant prices, and 
with this, as with any commercial ar- 
ticle, if everyone demanded the long 
lengths there would not be enough to go 
around. 

For many years Johnson & Johnson 
have been desirous of being in a posi- 
tion to put out a substitute for silkworm- 
gut that could be secured in practically 
endless lengths. We now are pleased 
to announce that we can supply a mate- 
rial which we have called by the name 
"Improved Wormgut," which to a grea- 
ter or less extent fulfills these require- 
ments. We freely admit that this mat- 
ter is still in somewhat of an experi- 
mental stage, and it remains to be seen 
whether surgeons will find this Im- 
proved Wormgut to be a satisfactory 



each coil of 200 inches, in an envelope, 
and ten envelopes in a box, making 2,000 
inches in all in the box. The price is 
slightly less than that of silkworm-gut, 
and in order to introduce the material 
and have it thoroughly tried, we will 
send to any surgeon who will actually 
give it a conscientious trial, one coil of 
200 inches. The sizes are designated as 
fine, medium, coarse and extra-coarse, 
and correspond roughly with the sizes 
of the well known silkworm-gut. 




A copy of this instructive booklet on Blis- 
tering will be sent to any physician on request. 



118 



Red Cross Notes 



SYNOL SOAP IN CONTAGIOUS 

DISEASES 

It is well to remember that contagion 
is spread by immediate or mediate con- 
tact, and that the only means we have 
of safeguarding against a spread of dis- 
ease is by practicing absolute cleanli- 
ness. Cleanliness of everything — body, 
clothes, utensils, in fact all articles from 
the sick room — is the only prophylactic 
against infection and epidemics. 

The most effective means for cleans- 
ing are soap and water, but the soap 





Washing utensils from sick room with 
Synol Soap 

must be of a character to destroy bac- 
teria, and Synol Soap^the antiseptic 
liquid soap— is a bacteriologically tested 
germicide. Its carbolic coefficient is 0.41. 

Synol diluted 1 to 200 (one-half per 
cent, solution) kills anthrax bacillus in 
fifty seconds. 

Synol diluted 1 to 150 (three-quarters 
of one per cent, solution) kills anthrax 
bacillus in twenty seconds. 

Synol diluted 1 to 100 (one percent, 
solution) kills staphylococcus aureus in 
fifty seconds. 

Synol 1 to 20 (five per cent, solution) 
kills typhoid bacillus in fifty seconds. 

Under strict laboratory tests Synol in 
diluted solution of from one per cent, to 
five per cent, kills resistant disease and 
wound producing organisms in from 
twenty to fifty seconds. 

From the above it will be seen at 
once that the cleansing and germicidal 
power of Synol Soap is of great value, 
and coupled with the attendant friction, 
which softens and dissolves the dirt and 
grease, its superiority over any anti- 
septic solution is evident. 

There is no infectious disease from 
measles to smallpox, from typhoid fever 
to cholera, in which this valuable germi- 
cidal liquid soap should not form an 
important part of the medicinal arma- 
mentarium. 

A number of physicians, nurses and 
attendants upon smallpox hospitals have 
reported most excellent results from the 
use of Synol Soap. Synol Soap seems 



to be particularly applicable for the 
washing of the nurse's hands, utensils, 
etc., used around the sick room, and to 
disinfect discharges contained therein. 

Synol Soap is also recommended by 
the same authorities for the washing of 
clothing, towels and napkins used by the 
sick, and these reporters have also ob- 
served that it has the very desirable 





Washing infected clothing with Synol Soap 

property of removing stains from 
clothing, etc. The usual practice is to 
immerse the soiled clothing in a five per 
cent, solution of Synol, afterwards boil- 
ing, and then rinsing in a one per cent, 
solution of the soap, made with warm 
water. 

Particularly good results have been 
reported from the use of Synol Soap 
for removal of the scales from small- 
pox patients, and it is a most excellent 
practice to substitute Synol for the ordi- 
nary antiseptic soap used in bathing all 
such suflferers. Two or three baths with 
the use of this soap removes all scales, 
disinfects them and leaves the skin 
smooth and clean. The method of using 
Synol in the bath is: first, to wet the 
skin with a brush or wash cloth, then 
sprinkle on the soap, using a brush or 
cloth for scrubbing. 

In the sick room, hospital wards, etc., 
Synol Soap is an excellent article for 
scrubbing floors, woodwork, furniture, 
etc. Both disinfection and thorough 
cleansing are accomplished by its use. 
For this purpose a solution containing 
three per cent, of Synol is amply suf- 
ficient. 

Private homes require the greatest 
care against spread of disease. The 
more or less general visitation of the 
sick room by members of the household, 
the carrying to and fro from room to 
room of articles of food for the patient, 
and the general indifference to antisepsis 
by those who do not realize its import- 
ance, makes it exceedingly necessary 
that Synol Soap should find a place in 
every home. 



Red Cross Notes " 

HELPS FOR YOU AND FOR YOUR PATIENTS 
The Scientific Department of Johnson & Johnson issues a series 
of bulletins, each dealing directly with one of the more prevalent 
contagious diseases. 

The bulletins give simple information as to isolation, disinfec- 
tion and general care of patients when contagious disease is present. 
They do not enter into the subject of the treatment of disease. 
These bulletins have been found of great value during epidemics, 
and many health boards have used large numbers for distribution. 



They are intended to supplement the work of the physician by ex- 
plaining to the families of patients what to do in order to prevent 
the spread of the contagion. The following is a list of the bulletins: 

No, 28— Dlphllieria Butletln, illustrated. No. 57— Smallpox Bulletin. lUuMratea. 
eight pages. showing typical forma of small- 

No. 29— Typhoid fever Bulletin, illua- pox, hints on vaccination, nurs- 

No. J8-M^n!ngitis' Buft^r^ ilins.ra.ed. No. «-m«ping" c"ugh"B''uHrt^n, illus- 

No. aU-Scarfe! fefer Bullc.in. illustrated. trate'd. ''eigh. ^ges. 

eight pages. No, 18— A Book wiih a Mission— Illu»- 

No. 40— Meaales Bulletin, illustrated, eighl trated booklet of forty pases. 

pages. giving brief suggestions appfica- 

Mo. 56— Consumption Bullelin. illualraled, ble to all the more contagious 

sixteen pages, diseases. 

A complete list of bulletins neatly bound together will be sent 
to any physician on receipt of a two-cent stamp. 

Where a supply is needed for health board distribution they 
may be obtained by addressing the publishers: 

JOHNSON & JOHNSON. New Brunswick, N. J. 



Red Crou Notes 



A FULL POUND OF COTTON 
Red Cross Absorbent Cotton is put up full weight ; that is to 
say, every package contains the net weight of cotton as marked 
on the outside of the package. In other words, in a pound package 
of cotton there is a pound of absolutely perfect cotton fibre, ex- 
clusive of the weight of tissue or other wrappings. Likewise every 
other size package, even to the smallest ounce or half ounce, con- 
tains the full net weight of cotton over and above the weight of the 
wrapper, carton, etc. 



This point should be borne in mind when buying Red Cross 
Cotton. You can rest assured that you are getting the full weight 
of cotton asked for in each and every package of the Red Cross 
brand. 

Red Cross Cotton is put up in the following sizes : 

Half-ounce, ounce, two-ounce, quarter-pound, half-pound, one- 
pound. 

In each size the cotton is completely encased in tissue paper; 
thus it is entirely protected from dust, dirt and infection whether 
in or out of the carton. Further than this every fibre is perfect — 
perfect in absorbency, sterility, cleanliness — absolutely pure cellu- 
lose fibre. 

The buyer always gets the full weight of cotton. 



Small but Important 



Here are two rather new items which have been added to our 
list The first is a very small thing— just a gauze bandage to fit the 
finger. The place it fills, however, is one of importance. The 
bandage is tlu-ee yards long and one inch wide, and already has 
attained a large sale. 



The second item is Johnson's Rubber Mesh Protective. This 
is a coarse netting, rubber coated. It is used in the treatment of 
burns and denuded surfaces, where the frequent removal of dressings 
produeee irritation, with resulting pain and delayed repair of the 
injury, It is usually applied directly to the surface under the 
dressing. By this method the dressings can be removed at will, 
without pain or damage. 

The Protective is put up in pieces one foot square, each piece 
in a double paper wrapper, and sterilized. 

Suggested uses for the Rubber Mesh Protective have been 
as follows : 

1. Placed over a clean incision it allows the outer dressing to 
take up the discharge without adhering to the skin ; hence no trouble 
to remove them at the first dressing. 

2. To cover Vaccination Inoculations. 

3. Varicose Ulcers. 

4. Skin Abrasions. 

5. Frost Bites. 

6. Crushed Limbs. 

7. Bed Sores. 

8. As a cover for Nasal and other Tampons. 

JOHNSON & JOHNSON 

New Brunswick, N. J., U, S, A. 



Series VII 




Number Five 



AOTEsS 

(J NEW BRUNSWICK,^ N.J„ U.S.A. 



PUBUSHED BY 



"The Clean Soap" 



SYNOL SOAP is the product of a long series 
of experiments in making antiseptic and 
medicated soap bases. In addition to its 
germicidal or germ-killing action it aids in 
emulsifying the fats of the skin and its hard- 
ened secretions. 

The primary aim in making Synol Soap 
was to produce a substance for the steriliza- 
tion of the hands of surgeons and nurses in 
the operating room. It has, however, been 
found adaptable to every use to which soap 
can be applied, in hospital, operating room or 
household. 
We will send a sample, upon request, to any physician or nurse. 



Physicians Need This Book 

ANEW Physicians Descriptive Catalog has been issued 
Johnson & Johnson, describing and illustrating our orinc 
products. This book of 120 pages is in- 
tended to help you in making out your 
order, by giving you clear information as 
to the surgical dressings and other goods 
manufactured by the House of Johnson. 

A copy of the Catalog will be sent, 
postpaid, to any physician, upon request. 



JOHNSON & JOHNSON 

New Brunswick, N. J, 




I 



RED CROSS NOTES 



CROSS NOTES 




N. Njw Brimswick, N. J., U. S. A. 




iilmer, Editor 




IwratoricB of the publisher! with the tnt< 






.f Ihf! 


cy tabor. 




1 confer a favor by nolifymB the publish. 


ers of 


«r and of any change of their address. 





There is a radical difference between 
preparing catgut for musical instru- 
ments and for surgical operations, and 
Johnson & Johnson were the first to 
realize this and to adopt measures to 
give to surgery an absolutely sterile and 
absorbable catgut ligature. 

The surgeon who has been accustomed 
to using silk ligatures sometimes asks : 
"Why is silk not better?" The ideal lig- 
ature must be absorbed and replaced by 
living tissue after it has performed its 
function. Silk, silk worm -gut, horse- 
hair and linen thread are practically 
eliminated because of this necessity. 
They may become encysted, but are al- 
ways found unchanged in the cyst. 

A catgut ligature is a portion of ani- 
mal tissue, and when embedded in a 
wound becomes an abnormal tissue or 
graft, which, after it has fulfilled its 
mission of holding the parts together, 
must, under the action of the vital proc- 
esses, be disintegrated, removed and 
replaced by normal cells. In other 
words, catgut is a heteroplastic material, 
and its presence in a wound sets up a 
chemotactic action of cellular attraction 
and repulsion, upon all of which the 
prior method of preparation of the ma- 
terial has a most important influence. 



lit 



Red Cross Notes 



I500B.CTO 1915 A. D. 



Suck b the Stretch of Time Over Which Lig»- 
turet Have Traveled to Preaent-Dej Perfec- 
tioQ—Some Intereitiiig Hktoiy. 

The ligature had to travel a long road 
before it was established as the best and 
surest means of checking hemorrhage. 
The first account of the application of 
the ligature for this purpose is given by 
Susrutas in his Ayar Vedas (1500 
B. C) He tied the umbilical cord of 
the newly born infant with a string 
eight inches from the navel previous to 
cutting it. (Senn.) 

Celsus (30 B. C.-45 A. D.) applied 
two ligatures to the bleeding vessel and 
divided it between them. When he could 
not ligate in these cases, he advocated 
the use of the cautery. 

Aetius (500-550 A. D.) ligated for 
aneurysm, excising the sac. although he 
used a red hot iron to stop bleeding in 
excision of the breast. 

Kirkland (1721-1798 A. D.) asserted 
that "nothing can more powerfully in- 
tersect the course of the blood than a 
ligature." He advised the use of the 
ligature made of long "twelve-penny 
flax" with the ends waxed so that it 
would pass through the eye of the 
needle. 

Sharpe, a surgeon of Guy's Hospital, 
in London, suggested the use of the 
ligature in 1761. 

In the early use of the ligature, sup- 
puration was considered necessary in 
order to facilitate its removal, for which 
purpose both ends were brought out of 
the wound. Later, some surgeons cut 
off the ligature close to the knot, but it 
was discovered that the ligature, after 
performing its duty, created an irrita- 
tion and led to the development of an 
abscess. 

In 1889 Agnew stated that "the knots 
not being aseptic, act as irritants, retard 



healing, provoke abscesses and are sub- 
sequently discharged from the wound. 
So the plan of cutting both ends of the 
ligature close to the knot may be re- 
garded as an unsurgical procedure." 

Philip S. Physick (1768-1837) was 
one of the early users of animal sutures. 
He used dog-skin and chamois cut into 
strips. 

Sir Joseph Lister introduced the anti- 
septic or aseptic ligature. Since his day 
the same kind of violin string gut has 
been subjected to over one hundred dif- 
ferent methods of sterilization in the 
hands of different experimenters and 
operators. Experimenters for years 
struggled with the problem of sterili- 
zing catgut and keeping it sterile, and 
with few exceptions failed. 

Sterilization began, in these methods, 
with the twisted cord of dirty catgut. 
The intestine had been removed in the 
slaughter-house, twisted into a cord and 
then dried, carrying with it the products 
of decomposition and other putrid mat- 
ter that might be present around the 
slaughter-house in which it was made. 
This is the material that is sold to musi- ; 
cal instrument dealers and to hospitals ! 
who sterilize their own ligature mate- i 
rial, as well as to dealers in surgical | 
supplies who in turn retail it to hospitals. | 

The catgut made by Johnson & John- | 
son is an exception to this general rule. I 
They handle the raw intestines, clean 
them, wash them in a sanitary laboratory 
in their own manufacturing plant. The 
Johnson & Johnson catgut is treated ; 
before twisting to make the cord, after J 
twisting and again in the container after 
sealing. This modern method places in 
the hands of the surgeon fresh, clean, 
sterile, strong gut, safe to use. 



— Catgut strands do not make a good 
drain for wounds; they tend to swell 
and occlude. 



Red Cross Notes 



128 



STERILIZING LIGATURES 
By Dr. E. Reidb 

A great deal of thought and confu- 
sion, both more or less unnecessary, 
have attended the preparation and han- 
dling of ligatures before use in the 
operating room. We refer particularly 
to ligatures which are bought sterile and 
ready for use, and not to the "home"- 
prepared variety. 

Due to the unexplained causes of 
wound infection, for which, in most 
cases, the sterilization process is not 
directly responsible, some surgeons have 
been led to believe that boiling of the 
ligatures before using, especially those 
which are sold in glass tubes, will effec- 
tually remove dangers from such a 
source. This is not a routine practice 
in most institutions, nor is it absolutely 
necessary. Boiling serves no partic- 
ular purpose, other than that it may 
affect adversely the strength of the lig- 
ature inside of the tube. A tube is 
usually broken in a towel before use, 
and the strand dropped out. In this 
way it can be used with unsterile con- 
tact. 

Of what avail is it, then, to boil the 
glass. To be safe, however, several 
antiseptic solutions' may be used, in 
which the ligature tubes may be im- 
mersed and allowed to lie there until 
used. Corrosive sublimate solution of 
varying strengths is good. Twenty-five 
per cent, tincture of iodine solution is 
an excellent antiseptic and grease sol- 
vent. Synol Soap, ten per cent, solution, 
or stronger, will do all that is neces- 
sary. It will sterilize, dissolve fats and 
render the handling of the tube abso- 
lutely safe. Alcohol is also very effect- 
ive. 

Boiling may be resorted to, but it is 
an entirely unnecessary expedient. The 
suggestion that tubes may be boiled 
serves no other purpose than to increase 



the mental safety which the word "boil- 
ing" naturally implies, and it further 
adds another step in handling, which 
interferes with much-needed simplicity 
in the operating room. 

Catgut ligatures after being removed 
from the tubes may be immersed in 
alcohol until called for by the surgeon. 
This straightens the strands, increases 
the pliability and simplifies the thread- 
ing. 

Note by the Editor: The ligatures of John- 
son & Johnson may be boiled or steamed 
with instruments if such a process is deemed 
necessary. 



WAR SURGERY 

Dr. Alexis Carrel, of the Rockefeller 
Institute, who has been given exceptional 
facilities for observation of the work- 
ings of the sanitary department at the 
front, and in the different hospitals dur- 
ing the progress of the European war, 
is quoted in the public press as saying 
that thus far surgeons have not learned 
much from the war. The preconceived 
theory that the greater speed of bullets, 
creating intense heat, would cauterize 
the wound and prevent infection, has 
been exploded. The speed of the bul- 
let varies with the range of fire, and at 
long range its reduced speed is insuffi- 
cient to create the necessary heat. 

When all conditions are favorable the 
bullet wound is less serious than for- 
merly, but in this war the conditions are 
seldom favorable. The consequence is 
the infection of the vast majority of 
wounds — the worst cases being caused 
by shrapnel. Anti-tetanus serum has 
been quite effective. The proportion of 
soldiers succumbing to their wounds in 
the hospitals is regarded small, consider- 
ing the difficulties offered by the general 
infection of wounds. 



— The ideal ligature can only be ob- 
tained by treating catgut before it has 
been twisted into a solid cord or string. 



124 



Red Cross Notes 



TIME OF ABSORPTION OF 
CATGUT 

By £. Harrison, M.D. 

In our surgical work the employment 
of the proper size ligatures, and the 
time of absorption of hardened and 
plain catgut in the tissues, has always 
been considered an important factor. 
The opinion is prevalent that unhard- 
ened catgut is absorbed too readily for 
usefulness. Nevertheless, experiments 
by Dr. H. Cabot, of Boston, with plain 
and chromicized catgut, seem to prove 
the contrary. He says : 

"The process of absorption of cat- 
gut takes place by infiltration with round 
cells and polynuclear leucocytes, and the 
rapidity of the process depends largely 
upon the blood supply of the part. In 
tissues of poor blood supply and conse- 
quent low vitality, as subcutaneous tis- 
sues and fascia, the rapidity of infiltra- 
tion is much diminished and absorption 
is therefore markedly slower, while in 
very vascular tissues the most rapid 
absorption takes place. These facts 
should be borne in mind in estimating 
the true durability of absorbable mate- 
rials." 

After experimenting with plain and 
chromicized catgut he concludes as fol- 
lows: 

"(1) That in rabbits chromicized cat- 
gut, No. 1 size, is retained longer than 
is desirable in suture material for sur- 
geons use; (2) that plain catgut of No. 
1 size is retained a sufficient length of 
time, that is to say, a minimum of three 
weeks; (3) that the catgut prepared by 
dry heat is more rapidly absorbed than 
that prepared by moist methods; (4) 
that the time required for absorption 
increases very rapidly with the increase 
of size, as No. 2 gut took from two to 
three times as long to absorb as No. 1." 

These experiments have been verified 
in surgical work. The object desired is 



the approximation of the parts, and then 
rapid absorption of the ligature, . and 
while we feel that the ligature itself may 
be perfectly sterile, nevertheless infec- 
tion may occur, due to lowered tissue 
vitality and the presence of bacteria in 
the tissue itself. If, then, the gut re- 
mains in the tissues too long, infection 
is always possible. 

Dr. Pearson, in his work, sums the 
matter up very intelligently, as follows: 

"Owing to its being an absorbable 
substance, catgut should be employed for 
surgical purposes whenever and wher- 
ever an absorbable material will answer 
the required purpose, and a little reflec- 
tion will show that this applies to most 
cases in which ligatures or buried su- 
tures are used. 

"In infected wounds, or in parts that 
are liable to become infected, an absorb- 
able ligature or suture is the only safe 
material to use, unless a non-absorbent 
substance, such as metallic wire, be em- 
ployed, which cannot itself become in- 
fected. 

"Where the desired result can be ob- 
tained in a short time, it is preferable 
that the ligatures should undergo rapid 
absorption, as further retention of the 
material in the tissues can serve no use- 
ful purpose. On the other hand, where 
the action of the suture is desired for a 
considerable period, it is necessary to 
use some material that will resist ab- 
sorption. We are therefore justified in 
using this material for the suturing of 
nerves, tendons, fasciae, muscular strata, 
the cure of hernia, and even for upiting 
fragments of bone. In operations on 
the stomach and intestines, I think it is 
advisable that an absorbable suture 
should be used next the lumen, as no 
one can foretell the ultimate fate of non- 
absorbable thread which is partially in 
contact with the digestive juices and 
partially embedded in the coats of the 
stomach or intestines." 



Red Cross Notes 



126 



CHROMIC CATGUT NAMED 
When Johnson & Johnson some years 
ago discarded the old terms, ten day, 
twenty day and thirty day chromic cat- 
gut, and adopted the terms medium-hard 
chromic and extra-hard chromic, they 
gave their chromic catgut fair and safe 
names. Their research and the expe- 
rience of surgeons have established the 
fact that patients do not react alike, and 
the same can be said truthfully of dif- 
ferent tissues, so that it is impossible 
to prepare catgut which can be said to 
have any definite resistance expressed in 
exact terms, such as "days." 

They make two distinct degrees of 
hardness. Under ordinary conditions in 
muscle the medium-hard chromic catgut, 
size No. 2, will retain its integrity for 
from ten to twenty days ; the extra-hard 
chromic catgut will retain its integrity 
for from twenty to thirty days, or per- 
haps slightly longer. The surgeon is 
able to tell at a glance the kind he wants. 
In most cases the medium-hard chromic 
is sufficient, but in serous or mucous 
membranes the extra-hard is generally 
called for. The larger the strand the 
longer absorption will be delayed, and 
this is true especially of the knot. The 
use of two small strands in place of one 
large strand is advised wherever pos- 
sible, so as to avoid large knots which 
remain in the wound and may later 
cause irritation. 

The tubes containing Johnson & John- 
son chromic catgut are made of amber- 
colored glass to distinguish the chromic 
from the plain gut — which is furnished 
in ordinary white tubes of clear glass — 
and to prevent any mistake where chro- 
mic catgut is wanted. The operator, 
nurse or assistant can readily see at a 
glance which is chromic and which is 
plain. 



LIGATURE SIZES 
(Contributed) 

An important factor in wound repair, 
no matter what the anatomical situa- 
tion, is the employment of the right 
size ligature. At the outset it seems 
difficult to formulate a hard-and-fast 
doctrine as to the proper size in each 
particular structure, but upon closer 
study it will not seem so difficult, when 
the nature of the tissue, the location of 
the part and the necessary amount of 
tension and traction are considered. 

Ligatures serve only one purpose, 
namely — approximation of the parts. It 
matters not whether it be a blood vessel, 
skin, mucous membrane, muscle or gut, 
the scheme is to hold the divided struc- 
tures together until nature performs its 
own natural approximation. This being 
so, it is necessary only to use a ligature 
no larger than is required to serve this 
purpose. 

A ligature at best is a foreign body, 
and no matter how sterile, it will set up 
irritation in accordance with the com- 
parative size of the ligature to the part. 

A good rule to follow is this one sug- 
gested by Pearson, allowing, of course, 
certain obvious exceptions in some in- 
dividual instances: 

"For ordinary ligatures I use No. 0, 
and for the smaller vessels No. 1, and 
for the larger No. 3 or No. 4 for ped- 
icles. For suturing the abdominal pari- 
etes, I select No. 1 gut for the inner or 
transperitoneal suture, and No. 3 for the 
muscular layers. It is not necessary, as 
a rule, to use coarser sizes, and when 
additional strength is required a double 
suture will answer. To have too many 
sizes only leads to confusion." 



-^Qtt our Physicians' I-Ut. 



— To Lister belongs the credit of hav- 
ing shown the way to the successful em- 
ployment of animal tissue as a ligature 

»n<} sutur? matcrialt 



126 



Red Cross Notes 



CATGUT PERFECTED 



Jolmioo & Johnaoo Hare Solved the Problem 
of AbtorptioD and Produce the Safeit Liga- 
ture Obtainable Today. 

For more than a generation Johnson 
& Johnson have been engaged in the 
manufacture of catgut, and during that 
time they have been close students of 
the subject. Their one desire has been 
to produce catgut that would not only 
meet the advancing requirements of 
modern surgery, but would anticipate 
them. The result has been that Johnson 
& Johnson are leaders in the production 
of surgical catgut. 

There is a vast gulf between the fin- 
ished strand of Johnson & Johnson cat- 
gut and the ordinary surgical catgut, 
the product of a slaughter-house busi- 
ness, and no one appreciates that more 
than the physician who has given serious 
thought and consideration to the subject. 

Johnson & Johnson were first to real- 
ize the danger in the use of the foreign 
slaughter-house gut. They began a diffi- 
cult series of experiments which ran 
through many years, endeavoring to 
make their own catgut from the raw 
materia], so that they could see and 
know exactly what it was made from 
and could carry out the processes under 
clean, sanitary conditions. They knew 
that frequently blood, feces and infec- 
tious materials were twisted into the 
strands of the slaughter-house gut ; they 
knew that such material was not suited 
for the uses of surgery. 

They succeeded in producing a catgut 
that has stood the test, that has proven 
a great success in the hands of the sur- 
geon. This success has been demon- 
strated in the tying of the knot where 
good tensile strength is needed, and by 
the satisfactory results in absorption 
and in sterility. Absorption and sterility 
are considered together because without 



proper absorption infection is likely to 
be caused by failure of the knots to ab- 
sorb, with consequent irritation, even 
when the catgut itself is sterile. 

Johnson & Johnson have solved the 
problem of absorption by their methods 
of chromicizing lamb's intestine while in 
the raw condition, before it is twisted to 
make the cord. While in this condition 
it is treated with the chromic hardening 
solutions, and it is easy to appreciate 
that while in the soft, thin tissue-like 
condition absorption of the chromic 
hardening solution will be regular and 
uniform. Experiments on animals and 
in the clinics have determined for John- 
son & Johnson just what degree of chro- 
micizing is needed. Controlling the 
preparation of the gut from the time the 
intestines leave the body of the Iamb 
until the finished product is sealed in 
the glass tube and sterilized ready for 
surgical use, Johnson & Johnson are 
able to guarantee their catgut to be free 
from putrid matter, feces or dirt, and 
are able to stand back of every strand 
that leaves their laboratory as being 
sterile and of good tensile strength. 

In striking contrast to their method is 
the old way of preparation, where it is 
endeavored to treat the hard, dry, fin- 
ished cord, in which condition uniform 
absorption of the chromic solution is not 
to be expected. The regular catgut in- 
dustry may be all right to give to the 
world violin strings and tennis racket 
strings, but it is not a trade suitable for 
the production of raw material for use 
in surgery. 

In the Johnson & Johnson laboratories 
attention has not only been paid to the 
physical condition of the catgut and to 
its sterility, but the safest and best con- 
tainers have been perfected for it, so 
that the suture material will reach the 
surgeon's hands in an absolutely pure 
condition. 



Red Cross Notes 



THE PATRON SAINTS 

Dr. Robert Fletcher in the "Bristol 
Medical Journal," England, December, 
1912, gives an interesting account of the 
martyrs Cosmas and Damianus as the 
patron saints of medicine and pharmacy, 



bian birth, and were educated in med- 
icine. They were martyred about the 
year 297 A. D. There is still existing in 
Barcelona a medical society which bears 
iheir names. For several centuries Sep- 
tember 2?th was observed as the anni- 
versary of the martyrdom of these 
saints, and pictures were exhibited in 
many drug shops in Europe, some of 
which are preserved to this day. A num- 
ber of churches and shrines have been 
erected in their honor, including one in 

In 1781, Sir William Hamilton, then 
British Ambassador at Naples, described 
some strange phallic ceremonies per- 
formed at an annual celebration in 
honor of these saints held at Isernia. a 
very ancient town in the Kingdom of 
Naples. During the three-day fetes in 
1781, over 1,400 flasks of St. Cosmas Oil 
were bestowed on the worshippers. 
Anointing with this miraculous oil was 
performed by the priests tor every kind 
of ailment, and the flasks were present- 
ed to enable the sufferers to continue 
ifter leaving the shrine. 



BLISTERING TIME TABLE 
Physicians will find a twenty-four 
page booklet, "Blistering Time Table," 
issued by Johnson & Johnson, of much 
interest. Published with a view of 
acquainting the medical profession with 
the superiority of Canthos as a blister 
plaster of standard strength, made of 
Spanish flies, it contain,'? valuable hints 
on blistering and gives a complete trea- 
tise on when and where to blister, com- 
piled from the latest and best author- 
ities, illustrated. The opinions of phy- 
sicians of many states who have used 
Canthos in their practice is given, and 
there is a chapter on "Cautions About 
Blistering," 

The booklet will gladly he sent to any 
physician or nurse on application. 



iti 



Red Cross Notes 



SKIN SUTURES 

Dr. Weller Van Hook, of Giicago, 
gives his method of manipulations for 
applying skin sutures, which are here 
set forth: 

Silk- worm gut is the best material. If 
soaked for a few minutes in methyl blue 
solution it will be seen much more 
easily. Fishermen, for whom the mate- 
rial was devised, like it best when quite 
translucent, since the lure is on this 
account less visible to the fish. The 
surgeon needs the opposite quality, that 
of opacity. The material should be 
thoroughly boiled with the instruments; 
this makes it soft and pliable and does 
not seriously affect its strength. 

The needle should be a straight Hage- 
dorn, not too large. The skin edges are 
lifted and slightly rolled outward. The 
needle is then introduced into the skin 
at such an angle that when the stitch 
is tied (a) the edges are approximated 
without being turned out or rolled in; 
(b) the skin and the underlying fat- 
tissues are supported; (c) there are no 
gaps left between stitches. 

The question of rapid and effective 
manipulation is largely solved by the use 
of the materials chosen. The straight 
needle gives the operator constant, ac- 
curate knowledge of the whereabouts of 
the point, and also the power, by the 
use of the needle as a carrier and lever, 
to adjust the tissues that are being ma- 
nipulated. 

The Hagedorn needle, with its knife- 
edge point and large eye, passes easily 
*hrough the tissues, making a clean 
wound, and is very easily freed of its 
thread and easily armed again. With a 
little practice the surgeon can sew up a 
simple wound as fast as a quick nurse 
can supply threaded needles. The nurse 
should stand at the operator's left and, 
holding a bunch of well trimmed silk- 
-trands in the right hand, she can 



quickly thread them and either give them 
into the operator's hands or stick them 
in a towel near his right hand. 

The Hagedorn needles should be 
sharpened on a small stone and polished 
with emery before each operation. 



ADHESIVE PLASTER 

"Throughout the whole range of the 
practice of medicine there is no one 
remedial agent which has so large a field 
of usefulness as adhesive plaster." 

Here is a book issued by our Scien- 



THC THERAPEUTIC 

USES OF 
ADHESIVE PLASTER 



4o(hiMMn4 



wi m w wi 



M».UAA, 



tific Department, which gives the salient 
features of the therapeutic application 
of adhesive plaster. It is an illustrated 
monograph containing the gist of contri- 
butions of able authorities in this coun- 
try and abroad. It is a most interesting 
and instructive book, especially to med- 
ical students and nurses, and supplies 
a want not usually found in the text- 
book. 

A copy of this book will be sent on 
request. 

Address : Scientific Department, John- 
son & Johnson, New Brunswick, N. J. 



— Good service demands good mate- 
rials. 



Red Cross Notes 



HIGHEST HONORS AT FRISCO 

The only gold medal awarded to any 
exhibitor o£ medicinal or surgical dress- 
ings or dental specialties at the Panama- 
Pacific International Exposition at San 
Francisco was given to Johnson & John- 
son. The award is gratifying to the 
House of Johnson, and we believe that 
it is pleasing to that great and growing 
fraternity of physicians and surgeons 
who have become accustomed to placing 
their fullest confidence in the products 
coming from the Johnson & Johnson 
laboratories. 

As all physicians know, it is no novel 
experience for Johnson & Johnson to 
have the superlative stamp of merit 
placed upon their products when they 
come into competition with the prod- 
ucts of the whole world. It is the nat- 
ural result of the Johnson & Johnson 
methods. During their whole existence 
the aim of Johnson & Johnson has not 
been to produce the cheapest article on 
the market, hut the best Their ambi- 
tion has meant increased cost of produc- 
tion through the employment of the best 
experts, through the system of double 
tests, through the unusual care taken to 
see that nothing but a perfect product 
goes forth with the Johnson & Johnson 
label upon it. 

The award of a gold medal now and 
then means nothing to the physicians, 
who have learned by experience that 
their confidence has never been mis- 
placed, but in these days of blatant 
boasting, of exaggerated claims and 
clever exploitation, such an honor as 
has been conferred upon Johnson & 
Johnson by the San Francisco Exposi- 
tion means much to the public. The 
prize- winning exhibit embraced the 
whole line of Johnson & Johnson prod- 
ucts, and the judges by their award pro- 
claimed the J. & J. line as supreme in its 
field. 



ISO 



Red Cross Notes 



HANDLING UGATURES 



J. & J. Tubes May Be Sterilized Bcfoie Bebg 
Broken — Some Tkingi to Be Avoided. 

The Johnson & Johnson ligature is 
delivered to the surgeon sterile, and in 
the operating room it must be received 
by the surgeon from its tube without 
danger of infection. Before the tube is 
broken its exterior should be sterilized, 
on account of having been handled, and 
grease from the hands, containing bac- 
teria, may be left on the tube. A solu- 
tion often used for this purpose is Har- 
rington's Solution, consisting of: water, 
10 fluid ounces ; alcohol, 20 fluid ounces ; 
hydrochloric acid, 2 ounces; bichloride 
of mercury, 12 grains. 

One of the difficulties surrounding the 
use of cold antiseptic solutions for dis- 
infecting the exterior of ligature tubes 
is that the tubes float and the ends pro- 
trude above the liquid, and consequently 
that part of the tube is not sterilized. 
If cold antiseptic solutions are used, the 
tubes should be weighted down by means 
of a perforated glass disc heavy enough 
to hold them under the solution. When 
the tubes are to be used they should be 
removed from the jar with sterile for- 
ceps and placed in a sterile dish from 
the steam sterilizer, filled with fresh an- 
tiseptic solution and kept there until 
taken out by the sterile nurse or oper- 
ator, to be broken later in a piece of 
sterile gauze. 

A common method for sterilizing the 
exterior of ligature glass tubes is by 
boiling them with the instruments. This 
method eliminates one operation, the 
instruments having to be boiled any- 
how. 

After the tubes are removed from the 
boiling water and allowed to cool they 
should be broken in sterile gauze, the 
suture removed and, if required by the 
^filirgeon, dipped in sterile water in a 



sterile dish and handed to the surgeon. 
Dipping in an antiseptic solution or ster- 
ile water is done to soften the catgut, so 
that it will be more pliable and more 
easily tied. 

In the "boilable" tube prepared by 
Johnson & Johnson is the most pliable 
and the strongest catgut suture that has 
ever been offered to the surgeon. This 
has been demonstrated thousands of 
times in the operating rooms of many 
hospitals in tying knots, where compar- 
isons have been made with other brands 
of "boilable" tubes. Johnson & John- 
son have been able to secure superior re- 
sults because they control the entire 
process of preparing the catgut, from 
the raw material to the finished product, 
a fact which has won recognition from 
surgeons all over the world. The John- 
son & Johnson catgut can be tied in a 
perfect knot, and is less liable to break 
than other catgut, some of which is so 
harsh and brittle that it snaps when the 
surgeon attempts to pull the knot down 
tight. 

And now for a word of precaution 
against a dangerous practice sometimes 
allowed in hospitals and operating 
rooms : A sterile towel taken from the 
steam sterilizer is laid upon an instru- 
ment table which is not absolutely ster- 
ile, and then the tubes of suture mate- 
rial are broken over the table, the su- 
tures removed and laid upon the table 
cover. The chloroform or alcohol in the 
tubes strike through the sterile cover- 
ing, wets the top of the table, and bac- 
teria from the table are immediately 
drawn back by absorption through the 
covering, thus reinfecting the sutures. 
This danger can be avoided by using a 
piece of rubber sheeting or dam, ster- 
ilized in the steam sterilizer, between 
the table and sterile cloth covering. Of 
course, the sutures could as well be 
placed in a small sterile dish if this is 
preferred. 



Red Cross Notes 



REAL MISSIONARIES 

Tbii Book 4aa Thae Punphlcti Will Auut 
Physduu to Teach ibe Public How to Con- 
Iral Cmligiow Diitata. 
"A Book with a Mission," the mission 
being lo show that contagious and in- 
fectious diseases may be controlled, pre- 
vented and ultimately eradicated by sys- 
tematic measures, has been issued by 
Johnson & Johnson. Technical terms 
have been avoided, and the book has 
been made so plain and so convincing 
that it will appeal to the general public — 
to those who most need instruction. The 
methods suggested for dealing vvith com- 
municable diseases are the most simple, 
yet the most effective for isolation and 
disinfection. They can be successfully 
carried out under all conditions and 
circumstances. They have in many in- 
stances been directly contributed and 
sanctioned by the highest authorities 



The suggestions in the book will also 
prove of value to physicians, nurses, 
health ofRcers and sanitarians. Health 
authorities will find that the judicious 
distribution of this book in their various 
localities will materially aid them in 
advancing the health standard of their 

Johnson & Johnson have also pub- 
lished a series of pamphlets an^ bulle- 
tins upon the subject of contagious dis- 
eases, all written from the stand poi 
of the best authorities upon san italic 
and embracing the latest and best known 
methods used by health boards in 
baling contagious and infectious disease. 
The directions given in these bulletins 
are plain and simple, yet the most 
feclive of all known methods. They 
elude methods of isolation, prevention 
of the spread of disease, hints on nurs 
ing in contagious diseases, and method: 



of disinfection. In times of epidemics 
it would be an act of good judgment 
to obtain copies of these bulletins and 
distribute them throughout the com- 
munity. The pamphlets are as follows : 

No. 28— Diphtheria Bulletin, illustra- 
ted, eight pages. 

No. 29 — Typhoid Fever Bulletin, illus- 
trated, eight pages. 

No. 38— Meningitis Bulletin, illustra- 
ted, eight pages. 

No. 39 — Scarlet Fever Bulletin, illus- 
trated, eight pages. 

No. 40— Measles Bulletin, illustrated. 
eight pages. 

No. 43 — Whooping Cough Bulletin, 
illustrated, eight pages. 

No. 56 — Consumption Bulletin, illus- 
trated, sixteen pages. 

No. 57— Smallpox Bulletin, illustrated, 
showing typical forms of smallpox, 
hints on vaccination, nursing, etc., six- 
teen pages. 

No. 44A^Sick-Room Rules. Specific 
rules printed on a card intended to be 
hung in the sick room when contagious 
diseases are present. 

Copies of A Book with a Mission" 
and of the pamphlets will be furnished 
to physicians, nurses, health officers and 
others upon application to the publish- 
ers: Johnson & Johnson, New Bruns- 
wick, N. J. 



Red Oo. N<*E> 



.Miun.l feet of 



PREPARING CATGUT 

ll Pawe* Through Serm Suga B«lae h RwJh 

the Hndl of the SinXKiD. 

Johnson & Johnson alone have done 
away with the practice of purchasing ihe 
finished strand of catgut made at the 
slaughter house. They now control the 
making of their catgut from the time 
the intestines leave the bodies of the 
iheep until ihey are ready for the sur- 
geon's use as ligatures. Consequently, 
Johnson & Johnson alone an able to 
produce a ligature or suture rce from 
the faults of ordinary catgut, and one 
that fulfills all of the requirements of 
modern surgery, one in which the orig- 
inal strength is not lost. 

The processes under which catgut is 
prepared in the Johnson & Johnson lab- 
oratories are as follows : 

1. The immediate disinfection and 
cleansing of the raw intestines directly 
after they leave the sheep. The removal 
of I he various coats of the intestines, 
•—^' the submucous coat. 



2. Disinfection ani 
each gut before twis 

3. Twisting the gut 

4. Testing the str 
and placing the gut 
envelope or tube. 

5. Final sterilizatic 
or envelopes are seali 

6. Bacteriological i 



lot. 
7. . Packed ii 






Red Cross Notes 



h box containing one 

^e shown tliese proc- 
> retain the strength 
characteristics of the 
)ds have left the gut 
brittle. Johnson & 
Johnson are the only manufacturers who 
have carried on the great amount of re- 
search necessary to work out methods ; 
who have gone to the expense of equip- 
ping an experimental laboratory and 
selecting so large a force of trained ex- 



pert operatives. They have the most 
expensive and modern catgut laboratory 
in the world. 

Directly connected with the ligature 
laboratory is the bacteriological labora- 
tory, from which the whole operation is 
directed. Every step in the ligature 
preparation is checked, and no hit-or- 
miss methods are tolerated. Each op- 
erative concentrates on one feature of 
the process up to the final sterilization 
in the sealed tube or envelope. 

The result is a healthy, normal, ani- 
mal tissue, sterilized, aseptic and un- 
changed in character, hence absorbable 
without reaction or disturbance of the 
wound-healing process. An examina- 
tion of a strand of Johnson & Johnson 
catgut shows a solid, firm texture of the 
cord, translucent, the twist hardly vis- 
ible — the result of using clean intestines 
from lambs and of having them in right 
condition when twisted. 

The Johnson & Johnson method of 
preparing catgut opens a new era for 
this product and is the beginning of the 
most important step in catgut prepara- 
tion since the classic work of Lister. 



184 



Red Cross Notes 



SOURCES OF INFECTION 



While Suture Material Comet In for Its Share 
of BUme, It U Not Alwajrt Gdliy of the 

Chaigs* 

iContributed) 

This little article was recently sent in 
for publication. We believe it will be 
interesting to the profession. 

The desideratum of surgery is primary 
union and an aseptic wound field. While 
this may be the expectation of every 
operator, there are times, nevertheless, 
when, in spite of the most careful pre- 
paratory sterilization, infection does 
occur. Then we look about for the 
cause. It is human nature to shift re- 
sponsibility. Instruments and operating 
materials are suggested ; the assistants 
and nurses are considered possibilities; 
rubber gloves unsterile; the operating 
field insufficiently prepared by the at- 
tendant, and last, but by no means least, 
the suture material comes in for its 
share of blame. 

Catgut, the most frequently used su- 
ture, is made from sheep's gut and is 
therefore open to suspicion. But it 
should be remembered that when cat- 
gut leaves the manufacturer as sterile 
gut, it is undoubtedly sterile gut. The 
reasons for infection are elsewhere. 

Dr. J. B. Morgan, of Augusta, Ga., in 
the American Journal of Surgery, sums 
the matter up precisely as follows : 

"On the other hand, infections occur 
where the operator is at a loss to ac- 
count for the cause. On such occa- 
sions we find it convenient and satisfy- 
ing to our pride to invent some scape- 
goat. It is sometimes more agreeable 
to fix the blame upon some inanimate 
rather than some animate object. There- 
fore, when a wound that ought to have 
healed by first intention is found to be 
filled with pus, it is quite the custom to 
vent our spleen upon the dressings, in- 
struments or sutures. 



"Since it is very probable that the 
one who prepared the dressings and 
instruments is present at the operation, 
and the one who prepared the sutures 
is not, it naturally follows that some of 
our aseptic mistakes are boldly ascribed 
to faults in the preparation of the su- 
ture material. 

"That the material used for sutures 
is sometimes responsible for the infec- 
tion, I think, cannot be denied, but that 
the preparation of sutures is as defective 
in surgical cleanliness as many surgeons 
would have us believe, I do not think is 
confirmed by the facts as shown by ob- 
servation and experience. 

"Nearly every surgeon of note, and 
nearly every large hospital in the coun- 
try, has a plan for the perfect steriliza- 
tion of catgut, but the fact that so 
many methods have been used is a 
strong proof that no one of them has 
proven entirely satisfactory." 

Leaving aside the possibilities of 
wound infection by instruments or other 
external means, we will discuss only the 
reasons why sterile catgut sometimes 
causes suppuration. One of the condi- 
tions which favor infection is the pres- 
ence of bacteria in the tissues. Germ- 
free tissues are rare, and if thrown in 
contact with perfectly sterile suture ma- 
terial the latter becomes a most fertile 
field for germ growth. 

Tissue bruises, due to rough handling, 
tying of hard knots, too many knots, 
over-size ligatures, all tend towards 
germ growth and infection. 

Dr. H. Cabot, of Boston, says: "We 
not very infrequently see catgut and ani- 
mal tendon sutures discharge in sinuses, 
showing that they have become foreign 
bodies, and that their absorption has 
been too slow to counterbalance the ten- 
dency of the tissues to sequestrate for- 
eign material. 

"I have seen reason to believe that 



Red Cross Notes 



186 



some at least of the wound infections 
which have been thought due to the use 
of infected material have in reality 
been due to the lowered vitality of tissue 
included in too tight sutures. Too great 
tension on the sutures, while not per- 
haps a primary cause of infection, is 
undoubtedly a predisposing element, and 
may be avoided by the use of suture 
materials which will not stand too great 
a strain." 

Pearson in his book on "Modern Sur- 
gical Technique," quotes in full the note- 
worthy experiments of Ewald. It seems 
that the catgut, in the process of ab- 
sorption, liberates a toxin which has 
power of causing suppuration in quite 
healthy tissues. 

In conclusion, all these factors dem- 
onstrate that it is not always the cat- 
gut which causes the troublesome in- 
fection, and every surgeon must realize 
that all the manufacturer can do is to 
furnish a ligature which is sterile, pli- 
able and of the proper tensile strength. 



. HANDBOOK OF LIGATURES 

Johnson & Johnson have issued a 
handsomely illustrated booklet of forty- 
eight pages covering the subject of lig- 
atures. It is called the "Handbook of 
Ligatures" and should be in the hands 
of every physician. The booklet, by text 
and picture, shows the whole process of 
preparing catgut ligatures from the mo- 
ment it leaves the sheep until it is sealed 
in its container ready for the surgeon's 
use. 

The method of treating absorbable lig- 
ature material with hardening agents to 
make it more slowly absorbed — a matter 
of general interest to surgeons — is fully 
explained. The method of making bac- 
teriological tests, the new and rational 
scale for the measurement of catgut and 
the complete set of standards for deter- 




mining tensile strength of ligatures are 
set forth in detail. 

An informing article on Catgut Ab- 
sorption, prepared by the Scientific De- 
partment of Johnson & Johnson, and 
illustrated with nine rabbit sections, an 
article on the Resorption of Catgut, in- 
struction as to the proper way to tie the 
knot and information about raw catgut, 
kangaroo tendons, silk ligatures, horse- 
hair sutures, silkworm-gut and other 
facts about ligatures are contained in 
the book. 

A copy of the booklet will be sent to 
any physician upon request to Johnson & 
Johnson, New Brunswick, N. J. 



A new Physicians' List, 125 
pages of illustrations and descrip- 
tions, has been published by John- 
son & Johnson. Every physician 
will find it interesting and helpful. 
Send to Johnson & Johnson for a 
free copy. 



— First aid workers, please send your 
names and addresses to the First 
Aid Department of Johnson & Johnson. 



ll« 



Red Cross Notes 



DAY OF IODINE 



Value of Iodine as a Wound DieMing Is Live 
Topic Todajr — ^A New and Safe Gntaincr. 

One of the most fruitful sources of 
discussion of recent years has been the 
topic of the value of iodine as a sub- 
stance for the treatment of wounds, 
both in regular surgical practice and in 
first aid and accident work. 

From whatever point of view we ex- 
amine this subject, it is plainly evident 
that iodine is having its day, but whether 
or not it will stand the test of expe- 
rience remains to be seen. There is no 
question whatever, though, that it has 
made for itself a very strong position, 
and there is no topic about which re- 
cent writers use stronger or more posi- 
tive language. 

Iodine for many years has been known 
and used, especially as tincture of iodine, 
both by the medical profession and to a 
great extent as a household remedy. 
Much has been expected of it, no doubt, 
that was impossible, but it is a strange 
circumstance that in spite of its com- 
mon use it has been so long in coming 
into its own. 

Away back in 1811 a soap boiler in 
Paris, so it is stated, noticed the action 
of Kelp liquors on copper boilers, and 
by this means iodine was discovered, it 
being made from Kelp, a sea plant. 

Major Woodbury, of the U. S. A. 
Medical Corps, was one of the first of 
the modern advocates of iodine for all 
surgical purposes. As a result of a 
great deal of experience with its use, 
Major Woodbury declares as his opin- 
ion that it is the long-desired ideal anti- 
septic, being cheap, easily obtained and 
efficient in high dilutions. He states 
that it does not damage tissue, even 
where vitality has been reduced; also 
that it has been invariably successful as 
a germicide under all conditions, and 



though it has great power of tissue pen- 
etration, he has never seen a case of 
poisoning. He furthermore states it can 
be used to disinfect the area of opera- 
tion without previous preparation, also 
the hands of the surgeon, and that a 
good surgeon with tincture of iodine 
will show as good results almost any- 
where as can be had in the finest op- 





Thc New Iodine Container. 

erating room served by the most scrupu- 
lous attendants. This is certainly the 
highest possible praise and would seem 
almost as though it were the statement 
of a fanatic. 

Many other surgeons have expressed 
themselves as not at all convinced of 
the value of iodine under any such con- 
ditions as are suggested above, and it 
has freely been stated that those who 
trust wholly to iodine and do not apply 
to their surgical cases the extreme clean- 
liness heretofore in use do not get first- 
class results, and that there is arising a 
serious situation due to those advocates 
of iodine who are throwing over the 
doctrine of a high state of cleanliness 
and are pinning their faith on iodine, 
thus backsliding from the experience 
of modern operators with whom clean- 
liness is the first consideration. 

Hirst states in a recent article that he 
does not use iodine because: 1st. In 
strengths of less than 12 per cent, it 
will not sterilize the skin, that such a 
strength will cause severe desquamation, 
and weaker solutions are not to be de- 
pended upon. 2d. It is an intense irri- 
tant to the peritoneum. It will cause 



Red Cross Notes 



at 



extensive adhesions, and has caused 
fatal intestinal obstruction. 3d. Heal- 
ing of the wound is not uniformly clean 
as it is with other methods of prepara- 
tion. This is the expression of opinion 
of one of the highest types of the mod- 
ern sterile operators. 

On the other hand, we have an article 
by Dr. F. T. Fort, in the American 
Journal of Surgery for 1915, in which 
statements are made that show him to 
be a complete convert to the cause of 
iodine, inasmuch as he uses the tincture 
in large quantities right in the abdom- 
inal cavity, in quantities such as pints, 
quarts, and even gallons. 

Whatever the opinions pro and con 
may be, there is no doubt whatever that 
there is a large demand for iodine as a 
wound dressing, especially in first-aid 
work, and for application to accidental 
lacerated wounds, such as are brought 
into special prominence just at this time 
on account of the war in Europe. 

One of the most difficult problems for 
the first aid man or for the physician 
outside of the operating room is the 
safe transportation of tincture of io- 
dine. Glass-stoppered bottles are uni- 
formly unsatisfactory on account of the 
probability that the stopper will either 
drop out or else will stick in so that 
it cannot be removed. Iodine has the 
unfortunate peculiarity that it soon cor- 
rodes ordinary cork stoppers and also 
rubber stoppers. 

Johnson & Johnson have been working 
for some time to devise a satisfactory 
container for tincture of iodine, espe- 
cially for first aid and emergency work. 
There are on the market pointed tubes 
of sealed glass containing iodine, and 
in use the points are broken off. John- 
son & Johnson wanted something better 
than this, so that an aseptic solution, . 
brush p.nd tube could be used imme- 
diately by ♦.he operator. The Iodine 



Applicator J. & J., which has just been 
put on the market, fulfills all the re- 
quirements of the modern surgical op- 
erator, even when used by the mere 
amateur first aid person. 

It consists of a glass tube of iodine 
solution, constricted at a point near the 
center and scratched in the constriction 
so that it can readily be broken at that 
point. Inside the tube, and hence con- 
stantly immersed in the iodine solution, 
is a swab or brush. When the tube is 
broken in half at the scratch mark the 
brush is found to be fastened to one of 
the halves of the tube, which acts as a 
handle. The swab or brush wet with 
the iodine solution may then be applied 
to the wound or other surface to be 
treated. 



HYGIENE IN 

IfATERNmr 



• ilribttal 



tLX 



u. 



Many doctors make a t-ractice of placing 
a copy of "Hygiene in Maternity" in the 
hands of expectant mothers. It contains direc- 
tions for diet and general care of patient from 
beginning to end. It is a manual of simple 
advice. Copies of the book will be sent free 
on request. 



— Every doctor should keep in close 
touch with the iirst-aid-to-the-injured 
movement. First Aid Catalog, No. 110, 
will keep doctors informed. Send 
to Johnson & Johnson for a free copy. 



Red Cross Note! 



PERFECT KNOTS 

IVr An PoHibla WA Jotaan & Johnm 

C^pit ViM, b TwcDtf P** CeoL SlR»^ 

TIm Mm CrtpA. 

The cumplete success of za opera- 
tion may depend upon the tying of the 
knot in the ligature. Realizing this, 
Johnson Sl Johnaun have not only stu- 
diously devuled themselves to produc- 
ing a ligature superior for sterility 
and absorption, but one which produces 
the best knot in the hands of the skilled 
surgeon. When the surgeon has the 
Johnson & Johnson catgut in his hands 
he will note that it "runs well and 
smoothly" while lying, and that the 
knots slide down firmly, so that when 
he begins to feel the tension on the 
strand he knows the knot is lied. And 
this is a great satisfaction to the sur- 
geon under the strain of performing a 
serious operation, 

Johnson & Johnson have given a great 
deal of attention to the question of 
strength, and today are producing cat- 
gut from their laboratories that is 
stronger than other makes on the mar- 
ket. The secret of the strength is in 
the handling. Of course catgut cannot 
be expected lo possess the strength of 
wire. At the very beginning, when the 
intestine is removed from the sheep, it 
will stand only about three pounds' di- 
rect pull; when twisted and dried to 
make a cord, this same intestine (the 
submucous coat) will be broken only 
by a direct pull of from eighteen to 
twenty pounds, and on the knot it will 
average about nine and a half pounds. 
That is why we test all gut in the knot- 
ted condition rather than by the straight 
pull. 

Experience has shown that nine 
pounds is enough tension for any knot 
while Itgating, for as much tension as 
this would in most cases strangulate 



the tissues. Strangulation is one of tie 
causes of infection resulting, as it mj, 
in a local necrosis which affords a cul- 
ture nidus for the growth of bacteria 
present in nearly every wound, or which 
later may gain access to it. When a 
ligature is applied to a vessel or a su- 
ture is used for the coaptation of two 
surfaces, a certain amount of stran- 
gulation of tissue cannot be avoided. | 
The germicidal properties of the ad- 
jacent tissue-cells and blood-plasma pre- 
vent more or less the development ol 
bacteria. As these protective forces art 
limited, care must be taken not to stran- 
gulate too much. 

The surgeon who uses just enough 
tension, therefore, will have better re- 
sults than the one who pulls his sutures 



Red Cross Notes 



189 



too tight and impairs capillary circula- 
tion, producing a tendency toward ne- 
crosis. 

There is a tendency among some phy- 
sicians to expect too much of catgut, 
and in their hands the gut often breaks 
because they pull too hard on it, tie 
the knot with short jerks and saw on it 
before letting go of the ends. The sur- 
geon should not expect the impossible. 
There is a limit to the amount of ten- 
sion that catgut will withstand. Na- 
ture has fixed that limit. Most likely 
the surgeon who is always breaking his 
catgut is using too much tension. 

There are occasions, however, when 
there is a flaw in the catgut, infrequent 
to be sure, but very annoying to a 
painstaking surgeon. Johnson & John- 
son catgut is inspected for such flaws, 
and the gut which reaches the surgeon 
will be found from twenty to thirty 
per cent, stronger than most of the cat- 
gut on the market. It represents the 
utmost at the knot. Johnson & John- 
son are able to accomplish this because 
they control its manufacture from the 
time it leaves the animal to the finished 
suture, and the tough, flexible qualities 
are always kept in mind and aimed at. 
The ligature contains the strongest part 
of the intestine — the submucous coat — 
and is chromicized in its lose, soft con- 
dition. 



SECURING CATGUT ON THE 
NEEDLE 

The difficulty encountered by sur- 
geons, due to the slipping of catgut from 
the eye of the needle at very critical 
times, has caused Dr. F. H. Jett, of 
Terra Haute, Indiana, to devise a meth- 
od of securing catgut to the eye of the 
needle which will prevent slipping. The 
accompanying illustrations will show two 
methods by which the ligatures are se- 
cured. 



One method shows a loop knot, very 
easily made, which, however, forms 
quite a fair-sized knot at the needle's 



An easy loop knot. 

eye, and might be apt to tear the tissue. 

The second method, as shown by Figs. 

1, 2 and 3, by which the needle is drawn 






Fig. 1. 



Fig. 2. 



I 
Fig. 3. 



through an untwisted part of the catgut, 
would seem to produce a better result, 
and be just as effective as a larger knot. 
Both of these methods, however, dis- 
play a new principle, in which the pro- 
fession might well be interested. 



ATTENTION ! 

All doctors who teach first aid, and 
all other instructors of such classes, are 
requested to send their names and ad- 
dresses and names of their organizations 
to First Aid Service Bureau, Johnson 
& Johnson, New Brunswick, N. J. 



14f 



Red Cross Notes 




"Your Handbook of Ligatures is a 
gem," writes a Southern doctor. 



"Your trademark is so known and 
recommended here that in my clinical 
service I use no other material than that 
manufactured by you." — Dr. Manuel F. 
Obregon, Cartagena, Republic of Co- 
lombia. 



"Your Synol Soap is my mainstay as 
a detergent and antiseptic. Especially 
useful do I find it in my obstetric work, 
and so efficient has it proven that I al- 
most never have use for any other anti- 
. septic in gaining personal asepsis and 
maintaining a reasonably sterile field of 
operation."— Dr. F. H. Plummer, 261 
Chestnut Street, Chelsea, Mass. 



"I am particularly interested in the 
'Improved Wormgut,' and am happy to 
say that IT WORKS, and in just the 
place that I desired most deeply to test 
it. A fractured olecranon secured with 
the new (to me) material gives perfect 
satisfaction; primary union and no fear 
of loose wires to make future trouble." 
— Dr. Howard Antcher, Roswell, New 
Mexico. 



"One man's experience is often so 
fatally defective and misleading that I 
hesitate always to urge my own, but I 
certainly believe in, and employ, anti- 
septic ligatures rather than those merely 
aseptic. The iodine catgut is unfailing; 
I use it in all re^^ions and for all sorts 



of tissue demanding a ligature or a 
suture. I believe that a faint tinge of 
antiseptic decides the issue in many 
cases. The iodine also hardens the cat- 
gut." — Dr. Howard Antcher, Roswell, 
New Mexico. 



"Although slightly unusual in the doc- 
tor's office, where great quantities of all 
sorts of literature finds its way through 
the unusual, as well as the usual, chan- 
nels, the impulse to acknowledge the ar- 
tistic merits, general helpfulness and 
enterprising scope of your Red Cross 
Notes, No. 4, of the VII series, takes 
expression. Your editors, illustrators, 
printers, lithographers and others who 
contribute to this beautiful little book 
do credit not alone to the excellent tra- 
ditions of the House of Johnson, but 
to the entire profession of medicine."— 
Dr. A. C. Steward, San Diego, Cal. 



CATGUT CONFIDENCE 

In the old days of surgery, stitch in- 
fection used to be rather the rule than 
the exception, and the surgeon paid no 
attention to it. In these later days it is 
a reproach to a careful surgeon. There 
is absolutely no need for it. It is just 
as easy to use a sterile catgut as a septic 
one. 

Johnson & Johnson's Red Cross Cat- 
gut is guaranteed to be absolutely ster- 
ile. You do not have to take their word 
for it. Take a piece of the catgut and 
put it into a test-tube containing nutri- 
ent bouillon, and if there is any growth 
of bacteria, Johnson & Johnsop Yfi^l Wt 



Red Cross Notes 



141 



the greaser. Their ligatures simply 
can't be anything else than sterile. From 
slaughter house to package, the entire 
process of manufacture is conducted 
under bacteriological check tests. At 
the beginning of the process it is healthy, 
normal, animal tissue; at the end, it is 
unchanged in character, and aseptic. As 
a matter of fact, you don't need to test 
these ligatures in a tube ; you can go to 
the clinical test right away, and play 
perfectly safe. — The American Journal 
of Ginical Medicine. 



A HIGH ENDORSEMENT 

An inspection of the Ligature Depart- 
ment of Johnson & Johnson, New 
Brunswick, N. J., is a decided revelation. 

Here you will find catgut prepared not 
from dry and brittle strands, as is so 
often the case with many manufacturers, 
but from intestines of freshly killed 
sheep which are carefully selected, 
cleansed of all fecal matter, blood, 
mucus and useless tissue at the point of 
shipment, and thus arrive at their lab- 
oratory in a perfect condition for twist- 
ing. This affords decided advantage 
over other producers, in that they can 
apply the chromic hardening solutions 
to the thin, loose tissue before twisting, 
instead of to the dry finished cord. 

The laboratory in which Johnson & 
Johnson Catgut Ligatures are prepared 
is most ideal from every standpoint. 
The twisting, the packing and the final 
sterilization process is performed under 
the most complete sanitary surround- 
ings possible, resulting in a finished 
product that is flexible and strong, that 
will tie down flat and not inclined to 
break at the knot; in fact, all in all, a 
catgut ligature that is worthy of and 
will command your full confidence. — 
American Journal of Surgery, June, 
191S. 



HOME STERILIZED CATGUT 
The superintendent of a hospital 
wrote to the editor of The Modern Hos- 
pital complaining that the doctors of 
that hospital were opposed to the use of 
catgut sterilized in the operating rooms 
and insisted that the hospital buy its 
catgut already sterilized. The superin- 
tendent declared that the hospital had 
never had an infection traceable to cat- 
gut, and asked the editor if he thought 
it necessary to comply with the doc- 
tors' demand. This is the reply the ed- 
itor made : 

It is very doubtful whether your state- 
ment that you have not had infections is 
true; you probably think it is true; you 
must have had infections, else why would 
your surgeons insist on changing a practice 
that has proved to be satisfactory? Your 
doctors know better than you do whether 
3'ou have had infections, and they are in 
position to determine better than you can 
determine whether your infections were 
probably due to catgut. You had better 
give them what they want and buy your 
catgut already sterilized. There are three 
or four firms whose chief stock in trade 
is their reputation and they certainly know 
more about catgut and its preparation than 
hospital people do, and they have always 
experts at their plants performing the work, 
whereas you entrust your work many times 
to young, inexj^erienced nurses, who rotate 
from one service to the other in the in- 
stitution. There are too many chances for 
accident, and accidents due to infected 
catgut are too costly. Volumes have been 
written about the sterilization of catgut, 
and there are many technical points about 
it that have never been written at all. You 
had better do what your doctors want and 
avoid the responsibility. 



— Sir James Crichton Brown predicts 
that in another forty or fifty years mor- 
tality from the now known preventable 
diseases will have disappeared. 



-Red Cross Cotton is standard. 



— Modern surgery deserves the best. 



— J. & J. keep pace with science. 



—Send for Physicians' List. 



142 



Red Cross Notes 



FUMiGATORS TESTED 



T. Ducflqr BalEii«ei^ Hcakh Officer o( Pnocdom 
N. J^ in ThoRw^H Trial Faxk Mort Site. 
itf vXv t f R/ouks* 

T. Dudley Ballinger, M.S., Health 
Officer of Princeton, N. J^ has given 
Lister's Improved Fumigators a thor- 
ough test and has proven that the fumi- 
gators are effective and satisfactory for 
the practical uses of boards of health 
and physicians. His interesting report 
of his thorough trial is as follows: 

"I have given the formaldehyde can- 
dles which you gave me a thorough trial 
and herewith present the results of my 
experiments. These candles were tested 
under conditions which resembled, as 
nearly as possible, those of routine usage 
by boards of health, in order that their 
value in actual practice could be deter- 
mined. In all experiments the direc- 
tions enclosed with the candles were 
closely followed. Check determinations 
were made at all stages to discover any 
possible error of technique. 

"Experiment 1 : Strips of sterile filter 
paper were dipped in a broth culture of 
B. typhi and dried in sterile petri dishes. 
These strips of filter paper were exposed 
in a room during the fumigation. The 
room selected was an ordinary bedroom 
of average tightness with an air ca- 
pacity of 1,000 cubic feet. During the 
experiments all openings were carefully 
sealed in the same manner as commonly 
employed by fumigators. Two candles 
were useci in this room which was sealed 
for four hours. After exposure during 
fumigation the filter paper was inocula- 
ted into tubes of sterile broth. The fol- 
lowing are the results : 

Strip (a) Exposed on floor. No growth 
in broth. 

Strip (b) Exposed on floor. No growth 
in broth. 

Strip (c) Exposed on top of cabinet. 
No growth in broth. 

Strip (d) Exposed on shelf of closet. 
No growth in broth, 



"That the organisms were not killed 
during the period of drying was shown 
by two check determinations. 

"The results obtained show that B. 
typhi were killed by the process of fumi- 
gation. 

"Experiment 2 : To confirm the above 
results, the experiment was repeated un- 
der identical conditions. 

Strip (a) Exposed on floor. No growth 
in broth. 

Strip (b) Exposed on floor. No growth 
in broth. 
^ Strip (c) Exposed on top of cabinet 
No growth in broth. 

Strip (d) Exposed on shelf of closet. 
No growth in broth. 

"Qieck determinations were also made 
to eliminate any error arising from the 
death of the organisms during the dry- 
ing process. 

"The results confirmed those of Ex- 
periment 1 and showed that the fumiga- 
tion killed the cultures of B. typhi" 



WAR AND THE POPULATION 
Professor Schwiening, surgical his- 
torian, reporter of the War Office, and 
associate editor of the Deutsche Medizi- 
nische Wochenschrift, recently spoke of 
the influence of the war on the move- 
ment of population. The influence which 
the direct losses — that is, the deaths as 
a result of wounds or sickness — have 
exercised in recent times on the number 
of the population is relatively small 
Even in the war of 1870-1871 the losses 
amounted to only one per cent, of the 
entire population of Germany. 

As opposed to the direct losses, the 
indirect loss of population is essentially 
larger, since wars exercise an especial 
influence on those factors which are fun- 
damental for the further development of 
a people, particularly on marriages and 
births on the one hand, and on the gen- 
eral mortality on the other. Every great 
war reduces at first the number of mar- 



Red Cross Notes 



141 



riages lo a considerable degree. The 
diminution in the years of war, how- 
ever, is foHowed in laler years by so 
much more marked increase of mar- 
riages that the loss is again compensated. 
Still greater is the diminution of births 
as a result of the war which cannot be 
fully explained by the diminution of 
marriages and the absence of many men, 
but is also to be referred to physchologic 
hindrances among those who remain be- 
hind. Here also there follows in the 
years after the war a considerable in- 
crease, so that the loss is quickly re- 

Finally, the entire mortality in many 
wars is markedly increased by the fact 
that on account of them, great epidem- 
ics occur in the civil population and de- 
mand many victims. In many wars of 
previous centuries, these losses through 
epidemics have actually been much 
peater than the essential losses from 
the war, and have led to the complete 
depopulation of many cities. A peculiar 
plienomenon is the increase of emigra- 
tion which almost always makes itself 
evident after great wars, and may have 
its basis in the political and economic 
and personal changes which every war 
involves. 

What influence the present war will 
exercise on the population and on the 
movement of population of the German 
Empire cannot yet be predicted. It may 
be assumed with certainty that the un- 
fortunately marked reduction in the 
birth rate, which began in Germany 
about ten years ago and could not be 
arrested by any of the numerous meas- 
ures directed against it, will be checked 
so that after the war another marked 
increase of births will set in. If that 
is the case, the war, in spite of the great 
sacrifice of human life, will be a bless- 
ing for the development of our entire 
population. 



GAUZE PAD : NEW PRODUCT 
Physicians for some time have felt the 
need of a small pad of gauze for wound 
dressing and innumerable other pur- 
poses. Johnson & Johnson are now pre- 



pared to fill this want. In their Red 
Cross Cotton Mills a surgical gauze of 
thin, open-mesh cloth, resembling cheese- 
cloth or mosquito netting, has been care- 
fully prepared. It is especially made for 
the dressing of wounds and is not to be 
confused with gauze which can be pur- 
chased in the dry goods and general 

Surgeons everywhere have found this 
gauze a sick room necessity. Now 
Johnson's Aseptic Gauze Pads have been 
added to the list of products of the 
House of Johnson, and they are of the 
same high-grade standard. 

Each pad is nine inches wide and 
thirty-six inches long, packed in sealed 
envelope. Five yards of gauie so packed 
in envelopes is placed in a pasteboard 



144 



Red Cross Notes 



HARDENED CATGUT 



k b Inpoftanl tLat tlie Suiseoii UndcntaiMl tke 
Di^M of H«dne« oi Cai^ He k Vub%, 

The object of treating catgut with 
chromic solutions is to harden it to such 
an extent that when it is used as a lig- 
ature its absorption is retarded to a cer- 
tain degree. Until chromic catgut came 
into use surgeons depended upon ex- 
cessively large strands when they desired 
to delay absorption. This, of course, 
necessitated the use of larger knots and 
frequently caused infection, or there 
was too rapid absorption of the gut even 
with such large strands. With the chro- 
micizing of catgut surgeons were able 
to use smaller sizes than before, with 
greatly reduced knots, less material bur- 
ied and less danger of irritation or of 
the formation of a pocket or sinus. 

Care must be taken not to use too 
large strands of chromic gut, for the re- 
sult will be that long after the wound 
is healed the knot will still remain un- 
absorbed and will set up an irritation. 
Small strands are recommended, doubled 
if greater tension is desired, as two fine 
strands will be absorbed much more 
quickly and easily than one large one, 
and at the same time the knots are much 
less liable to cause trouble. If a sur- 
geon selects the right size, but neglects 
to take into account its degree of hard- 
ness and uses the extra-hard chromic in- 
stead of the medium-hard for certain 
tissue, his results may prove equally un- 
satisfactory. 

It is important that the surgeon un- 
derstand the degrees of hardness of the 
catgut he is using. With catgut of three 
kinds — plain, medium-hard chromic and 
extra-hard chromic — the surgeon has 
every chance to select the right gut for 
^ht^ work he expects to do according to 



his knowledge of the time necessary for 
it to remain in the tissue. 

The following gives a rough idea of 
the use of the different kinds of catgut 
in various tissues, but it must be re- 
membered that all patients are not aver- 
age and that age, vitality, etc., must gov- 
ern individual cases: 

In muscle — No. 1 medium-hard chro- 
mic. 

In fascia — No. or No. 1 medium- 
hard chromic. 

In skin — No. medium-hard chromic. 

In peritoneum alone — No. or No. 1 
medium-hard chromic. 

In peritoneum through and through- 
No. 2 or No. 3 extra-hard chromic. 

In cervix — No. 2 extra-hard chromic. 

In vagina — No. 2 extra-hard chromic. 

In rectum — No. 2 extra-hard chromic. 

In kidney or bladder — No. 1 or No. 2 
extra-hard chromic. 

In stomach or intestines — No. 1 or 
No. 2 extra-hard chromic. 

It is important that chromic catgut 
should be evenly hardened throughout 
its entire structure, and it is for this 
reason that Johnson & Johnson chro- 
micize the intestinal tissue in the soft, 
loose condition before it is twisted to 
make the cord. This treatment insures 
an even treatment of the strands 
throughout, the exceeding thinness of 
the tissue making immediate penetration 
possible. This is exclusively a Johnson 
& Johnson process. 

The surgeon who once becomes accus- 
tomed to the use of Johnson & Johnson 
catgut has no trouble in choosing the 
proper size, because he knows what to 
expect of it in the average patient. 



— Doctors are studying men more and 
medicine less. 



— The object and aim of the physician 
is to obviate the tendency to death. 



A Full Pound of Cotton 
Protected from Infection 

RED CROSS COTTON is made of carefully selected fibre in a 
surgical dressing laboratory. Throughout the various stages 
of manufacture it is protected from infection and upon final packing 
it is sterilized. Perfect absorbency and absolute sterility are 
guaranteed. 

Red Cross Cotton is the only absorbent cotton that is wrapped 
in such a way that all surfaces, including the edges, are fully 
protected from dust, dirt and infection, whether in or out of the 



carton. This enables the user to cut as much from the roll as is 
desired without touching the remainder, insuring a perfect aseptic 
condition of the roll until the last particle is used. 

In a pound package of Ked Cross Cotton there is a pound of 
absolutely perfect cotton fibre, exclusive of the weight of tissue 
or other wrappings. Every other size package, even to the small- 
est ounce or half ounce, contains the full net weight. 

Red Cross Cotton is to-day the standard for the world's produc- 
tion—a standard which is imitated and striven after, but which 
stands in a class by itself. 

In ordering, specify Red Cross Cotton. 



Ligatures with the Mark of Confidence 




Standard Tube Chromic Catgut in amber glass 




Standard Tube for Catgut or Silk 



Full-curved Emergency Tube, Catgut or Silk, with needle 



i 



PLAIN 



Half -curved Emergency Tube, Catgut or Silk, with needle 




UJ 

N 

€0 



Bacteriological Test Ho-4 

Samples from this lot of lis«turw hawt btff 
in our Bdct«riolosical Laboretofias end fm^*i 



This guarantee, Bhowingr result of lal 
test Bnd serial number of lot, api 
every package of one dozen li— '*"' 

Catgut under bacteriolofirical controL A] 
test-tube of sterile broth contaii 
strand of catgut taken from a tube. Ul^ 
Bterile a visible growth appears in the mm\ 



RED CROSS '^ 

ASEPTIC CATGUT 

No. 2, LENGTH, 28 INCHES ^ 

IN DOUBLE ENVELOPE, GERM PROOF. The« 
wrapping in inner cnvdopo have been made «KB^by "^o^^' ^S ^M^ 
DlRECnONSMD Remove the outer «mif*ltfOe. /2) T« of^^J 
p«per. then extract inner paper, touching only the end. U) Under «««« « 
tionTcul off farther end of inner paper and draw out Ugstute. 



■mrniMMttiiS^iii 



rirtiMMiiiiiiiiiii[iiiiiAiiiiiiiiit<iiii«iii 



J... 



MUM 



mtm 



Ligatures in envelopes: Catgut, Silk, Horse-Hair and Tend 



foO fo Number Six 
(J NEW BRUNSWICK.^/ N.J^ U.S.A. 




PUBLISHED BY 



Detailed Immensity 



A Y 7HEN surgeons visit the Johnson & Johnson laboratories the}' 
' » are impressed first with the immensity of the industry and then 
with the attention that is paid to details. They marvel that whew 
such a bulk of products are manufactured that so much individual 
attention is paid to each article sent from the laboratories. One 

visitor said: 

"I do not wonder 
that Johnson & Johnsca 
are the largest producers 
of catgut ligatures \a the 
world. They have been 
succesaful because thej 
have gone into the pro- 
duction of these sutp'cal 
necessities more tbor- 

Stem. LiBMu«. In Gl™ Tube. «"K*>'y ^^ ^y "^^ 



"No one else thinks it worth while bothering with the process of preparatvm i 
from the living animal to the finished strand of ligature, but I noticed that m \ 
detail is bo slight that it can be neglected in the Johnson & Johnson laboratories." | 

Johnson & Johnson's aim has ^^^ 

been to produce the ideal catgut liga- t ^. ■ ^,'^i 
ture and they offer surgeons a perfect ? ~J^^S»~sr^ 
cord, made of healthy, normal animal " 

tissue, sterilized, aseptic and un- swrae libmuk 

changed in character, absorbable without reaction or disturbance of 
the wound-healing process. The surgeon can use it with complete 
confidence, 

JOHNSON & JOHNSON 

New Brunswick, N. J- 

Write for samples and 

"Handbook of Ligatures" 



RED CROSS NOTES 



COPYRIGHT 1916 BY JOHNSON A JOHNSON 



Series VII New Brunswick, N. J. Number Six 



RED CROSS NOTES 
Published by Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, N. J., U. S. A. 

Fred B. Kilmer, Editor 

This publication is issued from the laboratories of the publishers with the intent 
to give, in brief, items of interest and reports of original research along the line of 
the particular branches of the irt in which they labor. 

Persons receiving Red Cross Notes will confer a favor by notifying the publishers of 
any inaccuracy in the address on the wrapper and of any change of their address. 



The Scientific Department 

Considerable of the space in this issue of the Red Cross Notes 
is given over to the work of the Scientific Department of Johnson 
& Johnson. We do not refer to this work boastfully, but merely ^or 
the information of the profession. 

There are times, says Balzac, when selfishness is a sublime 
virtue, but we lay no claim to possessing such virtue. The Scientific 
Department is not conducted in any narrow commercial spirit, but 
the constant desire has been, and will continue to be, that the depart- 
ment render the greatest service to the profession of medicine and 
surgery and thus contribute to the good of all mankind. It is not 
mahitained for the purpose of paying dividends or solely for the 
benefit of Johnson & Johnson, but as a service to humanity. Its 
chief concern is the progress of the art of healing. 

The department is always pleased to place its facilities at the 
disposal of the practitioners of medicine and surgery for any work 
within its domain. The members of the profession in general are 
invited to take advantage of the facilities offered either in the work- 
ing out of the new problems or the study of the old ones. 

As the years have been tolled off and the Johnson & Johnson 
laboratories have been multiplied, the Scientific Department has kept 
ever in advance of the development of the manufacturing depart- 
ments, ever protecting Johnson & Johnson from inferior raw ma- 
terials and the medical profession from inferior finuished products. 

To the watchfulness and the resourcefulness of this depart- 
ment must be given much of the credit for the unshaken confidence 
of the profession in the name of Johnson & Johnson and the Red 
Cross label during the nearly thirty years' existence of this company. 



' Red Cross Notes 

TESTING RAW MATERIALS 



JohaiM k JohnioDi Scicaliic 

SUMb Curd Ovci ibe Receiving Wwe- 
howet A* Well A* Orai ibc Muufmc- 
tnring DeparlBenl*. 

When a liarrel of capsicum or a drum 
of glycerin arrives at the Johnson & 
Johnson warehonses they are not at 
once delivered to the department which 
ordered the material. Nothing passes 
from those warehouses to the manu- 



A corner in Ihi! AnaLylicdl Dcmrtmcnt 

facturing plant unlil the analytical de- 
partment of the Johnson & Johnson 
laboratory places its stamp of approval 
upon the material. And before that is 
done the goods must be tested. 

Upon receipt of raw materials the 
warehouse department places a tag upon 
each package, those in the same ship- 
ment receiving the same lot-number. 
The receipt of the goods is communi- 
cated to the chemical laboratory upon a 
printed blank form in duplicate. 
Samples from .the containers themselves 
are then secured personally by one of 
the laboratory force. These samples 
are examined in the laboratory accord- 
ing to regular methods. 

For instance, upon receipt of capsi- 
cum (powdered), which is imported 




from Zanzibar "Chillies" and ground to 
order, the chemist conducts the follow- 






M 



of appearance ind 



vith 



solution, for starch. 

3. Percentage of moisture present 

4. Percentage of oleoresin extracted 
with ether. Should be over fifteen p« 
cent This is the requirement of i 
U. S. Customs. 

If the sample passes the test, and the 
chemist is satisfied that the mat 
measures up to the high standard de- 
manded by Johnson & Johnson, the 



Red Cross Notes 



port blank is filled out and the con- 
tainer of the materials is marked with 
an acceptance tag containing the date, 

contents and test number. The respon- 
sibility for the acceptance or the rejec- 
tion of any goods is placed squarely 
upon the chemical laboratory. The ma- 
terials which fail to receive the accep- 



many of the tests there can be no pos- 
sible reference to the United States 
Pharmacopeia, as a standard tor their 
fequireraents, so that it has become 
necessary in many instances to establish 



in r & J laboratories 

a standard which will, in subsequent ap- 
plication, control the goods, and to 
gather through this record of experi- 
ments a knowledge of what variations 
from such a standard can be allowed. 
Many of the tests elaborated by this 
department have been accepted as 
authoritative. 

These tests are only one phase of the 
work of the scientific department. In 
addition to the examination of the raw 
material, the work of the department 
lies along many lines of chemistry, 
pharmacology, bacteriology and allied 
sciences. The processes employed in the 
factory are checked and tested in all 
the various stages up to the finished 
material. Special attention is paid to 
surgical material, such as absorbent 
dressings and ligatures, a series of check 
tests being made for the purpose of 
record and to establish the accuracy and 
value of the processes. In addition. 



148 



Red Cross Notes 



studies are made into the manufacture. 
This is done with the view of, wher- 
ever possible, eliminating any imperfec- 
tion, weakness, or inaccuracy and with 
a further view of the improvement of 
the process or products. 

The laboratory workers have been 
aided from time to time by specialists 
in surgery, medicine and hygiene, who 
have supplemented the work of the 
laboratory by clinical experiments and 
practical application. The workers 
keep in touch with every stage of pro- 
gress in the science of medicine, sur- 
gery and sanitation, whether the subject 
may be closely or remotely connected 
with the industry. 

The work of the Scientific Depart- 
ment on belladonna may be cited as an 
example of the studies made of drugs. 
Belladonna has been studied from phar- 
macognostic, physiological and thera- 
peutic points of view. Every gleaner 
in materia medica, in either the Old or 
the New World, who has ever made 
an observation upon this drug, has been 
under review. Researches, extending 
through many months into years, have 
been devoted to this one drug. New 
and important observations in respect 
to belladonna have been reached and 
recorded. Not only has the world's 
market supply of belladonna been under 
searching investigation, but a series of 
observations as to belladonna cultivated 
for the first time upon American soil 
has been the subject of most elaborate 
study. As a result the belladonna prep- 
arations of today have an enhanced 
value. 

The study of antiseptics and disinfec- 
tants, their action upon bacteria and 
their practical application resulted in 
the publication of a series of health 
bulletins, designed to give practical ap- 
plication of the latest and best prin- 
ciples of modern hygiene. 



FORMALDEHYD TESTS 



JohnioB & Johnion Carry Out Experiments 
%ndi [FonnaUekyd Disinfectioii, ResuitiDg 
ia Production of Lister's Improved Fumi- 
gators. 

From time to time there has been a 
considerable amount of discussion 
among Board of Health officials as to 
the usefulness of formaldehyd disinfec- 
tion of rooms and dwellings in which 
there has occurred a case of infectious 
disease. The subject of discussion has 
not been the actual germ-killing power 
of formaldehyd gas, for that has often _ 
been worked out by the bacteriologists, 
but more especially the question of 
actual efficiency under average working 
conditions as present in the ordinao' 
dwelling house. 

One of the questions that has been 
given considerable prominence is that 
of the possibility of condensation of the 
formaldehyd on the walls of the room 
with a resulting decrease in strength of 
the amount of gas in the central parts of 
the room — in other words, uneven dis- 
tribution. 

In order to secure some data on this 
subject, the Johnson & Johnson experi- 
mental laboratory has carried out a 
series of experiments with formaldehyd 
by evaporating in a room of known size 
a definite quantity of para formaldehyd 
of assayed strength and then withdraw- 
ing from that room a definite proportion 
of its contained air, drawing this air 
through flasks containing water so that 
the formaldehyd gas in the air was ab- 
sorbed by the water. Afterwards the 
amount of formaldehyd dissolved in 
the water was determined by chemical 
analysis, and from these figures calcula- 
tion made to ascertain the total quantity 
present in the air of the room, on that 
basis. 



Red Cross Notes 



149 




Method of removing gas from room. A — Tube which entered 
the room. B — Syphon tube to take water out of large bottle. 



In order to place this series of tests 
on a true scientific basis it was believed 
to be necessary to use a room that was 
practically air-tight, so as to avoid leak- 
age of the gases. Therefore, we had 
built a room or box of galvanized sheet- 
iron, made just a trifle less than eight 
feet in each dimension, that is to say, 
an eight-foot cube; a room eight feet 
long, eight feet wide and eight feet 
high. Such a room has a capacity of 
five hundred cubic feet. 

All of the joints and seams were 
soldered tight and the only chances for 
leakage were a small door at the lower 
part for entrance and a trap door or lid 
in the top for allowing the fumes to 
escape after a test. These were both 
made practically tight. The room was 
built in a large store-house in the John- 
son & Johnson plant, the same being 
maintained at ordinary living-room tem- 
perature. 

The requirement of Boards of Health 
is that one grain of paraformaldehyd 
jShall be used for each cubic foot of 
jipace to be fumigated. This, therefore, 
iwould require the use of 500 grains 
Iparaformaldehyd. 

j To accomplish the evaporation of the 
[paraformaldehyd in a convenient man- 
ner, an electric wire was run into tlie 



room and connected thereto was an 
electric hot-plate. On this was placed 
500 grains of paraformaldehyd and 
when all openings were closed, the cur- 
rent was turned on from outside the 
room and the operation observed 
through a pane of glass in the wall of 
the room. As will be seen by examina- 
tion of the reports given below, com- 
plete evaporation of the paraformalde- 
hyd was accomplished in a short time. 
The removal of one cubic foot of gas 
from the room had to be done slowly 
and carefully in order to insure com- 
plete solution of the gas in the four 
portions of water. This was done by 
regulating the flow by a cock so that the 
air bubbled up at a regular rate through 
the water in the flasks. 

Referring to the diagram, the tube A 
is run through a cork in the wall of the 
room and is of sufficient length to reach 
to the center of the room. Now upon 
opening a cock in the tube B, the water 
in the large bottle is syphoned out and 
in so doing produces suction which in 
turn draws the air from the small flasks 
containing the absorption water. The 
air from the center of the room is thus 
gradually drawn through tube A, 
through all of the four flasks, bubbling 
through the water in each and is thus 



Red Cross Notes 



washed four times, which we found to 
be necessary in order to absorb from the 
air all fortnaldehyd vapor mixed with 
it The diagram shows the bobbles 
passing through the absorbing water. 

The size of the large bottle is such 
that one cubic foot of water is contained 
between the marks so that if the opera- 
tion is started with the water at the 
upper mark and continued until its level 
reaches the lower mark, just one cubic 
foot of water has run out and, of course. 



its place has been taken by air drawn 
by it from the room and from which all 
formaldehyd gas has been dissolved by 
the water in the four flasks. It is, of 
course, essential that there shall be no 
leaks in any of the connections. It is 
to be clearly understood that the only 
purpose of the large bottle is to with- 
draw a measured portion of air. 

Tests A and B give records and re- 
sults of the tests. These experiments, 
we believe, show conclusively that the 
air in the center of the room contained 
the full quantity of formaldehyd gas 
that by calculation should be secured 
from the weight of paraform used. 



There was no condensation and tlKte 
was even distribution. 

RECORD OF TESTS 

Test A Test B 

Amount para formaldehyd used, 

500 grains 500 grains 
Analysis of paraformaldehyd used, 

967d 96% 

Amount pure paraformaldehyd used, 

480 grains 4S0 grains 
Temperature of room, 

75° F. 
Time to evaporate. 



72° F. 
20 minutes 



Time to draw 1 cu. ft. of air, 

Grams formaldehyd from 1 c 

.06136 
Grains formaldehyd from 1 c 

.945 
Grains formaldehyd in 

472.5 
Proportion recovered, 

98% 



500 c 



Note.— Thai 



actly = 






The results indicate clearly that by , 
vaporizing paraform in a room there is 
secured an entirely satisfactory amouDl 
of formaldehyd gas. 

On the strength of these very satis- 
factory tests, Johnson & Johnson set out 
to design and produce on a large scale 
a small, compact and efficient formalde- 
hyd disinfecting device using the exact 
methods of this test, viz : The vaporiz- 
ing by heat of a definite quantity of 
paraformaldehyd. Five hundred grains 
was decided upon as a convenient and 
acceptable quantity for each little funii- 
gator. Under the tin container is placed 
a wax candle of special design and it 
contains sufficient wax to cause the 
evaporation of all of the paraform in the 
tin flask over it. 



Red Cross Notei 



The t. 



i herein givert Were not de- 
determine the gertn-kilUng 



well 

by many 



power of formaldehyd 
known from the results of 
other experimenters. As 1 
we especially here call 
well known but often disregarded 
points, that formaldehyd gas is much 
more active in destroying germ-life 
when there is present a considerable 
amount of moisture in the air and when 
the room is warm. We strongly urge 
attention to these facts and request 
users of Listers Improved Fumigators 
to observe the following rules : 

1. Use one disinfector for every '500 
cubic feet of space in the room. 

2. Close tightly all windows, doors at 
other openings. 

3. Hang up in the room one wet 
sheet for every 5{K) cubic feet of space 
in the room, or thoroughly impregnate 
the atmosphere of the room with steam 
from a kettle of boiling water, immedi- 
ately light the candle in the disinfector 
and leave the room. 

4. Have the room wa 
if possible. 

3, Open all drawers, 
all bedding, blankets, towels, 
out and hanging loosely 
so as to expose all possible surfaces to 
the gas, which has but little penetrating 



DOCTORS NEED THIS CATALOG 
Johnson & Johnson are not only 
manufacturers, but scientific investiga- 
tors who have contributed very largely 
to the advancement of the medical and 
surgical profession. In their research 
department there is at all times a com- 
petent force who dedicate all their time 
and labor to experimental investigation 
in chemistry, surgery, bacteriology and 
allied sciences. It is an ailmitted fact 
that Johnson & Johnson have given sur- 



gery, medicine and pharmacy very valu- 
able service and that the material 
emanating from this house has aided 
the medical and surgical profession, 
throughout the worJd, to apply the best 
methods of advanced science. 

This service has resulted in a close 
relationship between the medical pro- 
fession and Johnson & Johnson, In 
order that every physician may be fully 
acquainted with the principal products 
manufactured by Johnson & Johnson a 



, 70 deg. F., 

c, and have 
., opened 



new edition of the "Physicians' Descrip- 
tive Catalog" has been published. It is 
a book of over one hundred pages, 
illustrating and briefly describing the 
products of the largest manufacturers 
in the world of medical plasters, ab- 
sorbent cotton, bandages and surgical 
supplies. A copy should be in the hands 
of every physician in the land. A re- 
quest to Johnson & Johnson will de- 
liver a copy at any physician's office by 



^Cotton is king i 
sorbent Cotton rules the Empire of Sur- 
gery. 



Red Cross Notd 



SELECTION OF RAW COTTON 

Ercfy Bdc of CatloD Aimiat Al dte Red 
CroM Milb I* Tdted br Experli Before 
II U Admined. 

The production of an absorbent cot- 
ton of the quality of Johnson & John- 
son's Red Cross brand, which has won 
and retained the confidence of the phy- 
sicians and surgeons of the whole world, 
necessitates the most careful handling 



of the raw cotton fibre. Where great 
quantities of cotton are handled an- 
nually, as at the Red Cross mills, where 
immense amounts of it are arriving al- 
most continually, one might think that 
there would be some carelessness in 
handling it in its rough state ; that the 
operators would follow the line of least 
resistance, feeling sure that any imper- 
fections would be detected later on 
under the constant system of supervis- 
ion and inspection. But carelessness is 
unknown in the Red Cross mills. Every 



oi)erator is keyed up to the efficiency 
point and in handling cotton 6it in- 
spection starts the minute the baled cot- 
ton knocks for admission to the mills. 

The precautionary methods really be- 
gin before the cotton arrives, as John- 
son & Johnson select their cotton in 
the cotton -growing regions and demaad 
a specified standard. 

As the cotton arrives at the warehouse 
every bale is weighed and numbered and 
marked for identification and a sample 
of cotton taken from it, which is like- 
wise marked for identification. These 
samples are placed in individual paper 
cylinders and are examined by experts 
as to cleanliness, length of fibre, 
strength of fibre, amount of ripe and 
unripe fibre, color, etc. These experts 
must first be assured that the samples 
are free from broken leaves, the resuH 
of careless picking ; from mud, sand 
and mineral matter, sometimes added 
as an adulterant, and are clean. Next 
they look for short fibre cotton, which is I 
sometimes mixed with the long fibre; 
for unripe and immature fibre, which is 
unfit for use in absorbent cotton or to 
be spun into gauze; for broken or mp- ' 
tured fibre, traceable to the action of 
the ginning machine ; for the stringy or 
tangled cotton. 

Next, the color of the sample is 
taken into consideration, it being exam- 
ined to see if it is stained or tinged 
with the stains of the plant or is nat- 
urally off color to such an extent that it 
will never become white. Then an ex- 
amination is made to determine if the 
bales run fairly even in all points. 

It a sample passes this searching test 
satisfactorily it is tagged "accepted," but 
if it flunks it is unhesitatingly tagged 
"rejected," and never finds its way into 
the mill. 

All grading of cotton is governed by 
the United States Department of Agri- 
culture samples. This national depart- 



Red Cross Notes 



ment will furnish a set of the different 
grades of cotton to any one interested, 
and Johnson & Johnson have such a set 
of samples and require that the cotton 
which goes into their mill shall come 
up to the standard of the Department 
of Agriculture, 

When cotton is to be prepared for 
wound dressing, the utmost care must 
be taken in handling the delicate fibre. 
Johnson & Johnson not only realize this, 
but have not hesitated to so surround 
the whole preparation of their products 
that cotton is guarded and protected 
from the minute it arrives in bale form 
u-itil the time it leaves the shipping 
room sterilized and ready for use. 



EDUCATE THE PUBLIC 
Physicians and Health Boards have 
found the series of Contagious Disease 
Bulletins published by Johnson & John- 
SOQ a valuable aid to them in times of 
epidemics in their communities and also 
as a means of conducting a campaign 
of education. The Consumption Bul- 
letin, illustrated, containing sixteen 
pages, has had a very wide circulation 
and has performed an important work 
in arousing the nation to arms in the 
battle against the White Plague. There 
are also pamphlets covering diphtheria, 
typhoid fever, meningitis, scarlet fever, 
measles, whooping cough and smallpox. 
They are all written from the stand- 
point of the best authorities upon sani- 
tation and embrace the latest and best 
known methods used by Health Boards 
to combat contagious and infectious 
diseases. 

We have gathered a set of these bul- 
letins together and enclosed them in a 
cover, and will be glad to send the col- 
lection to any physician, nurse, health 
officer or other interested person. Just 
ask for Contagious Disease Bulletins. 
Health officers, societies and others who 



Copies of Ifacu butlelins sent on request 

may desire to secure quantities of spe- 
cific bulletins for circulation are in- 
vited to correspond with Johnson & 
Johnson, stating the number that can 
be used to advantage. The directions 
piven in the bulletins are plain and sim- 
ple and are especially adapted to edu- 
cational work among the masses. 

A BOOK WITH A MISSION 

This is the title of a forty-page book 
issued by Johnson & Johnson. "Its mis- 
1," as explained in the introduction, 
to show that contagious and infec- 
[S diseases may be controlled, pre- 
vented, and ultimately eradicated by sys- 
tematic measures." Thus it is working 
as an aid to the medical profession who 
are earnestly teaching their patients and 
the public the same thing. Care has 
been taken to avoid technical terms, to 
suggest simple yet effective methods for 
isolation and disinfection. They can he 
carried out under all conditions and cir- 
cumstances, the methods in many in- 
stances having been contributed and 
sanctioned by the highest authorities on 
sanitation. 

Copies of this book will be furnished 
free to physicians, health officers, 
nurses and others upon application. 



t$4 



Red Cross Notes 



ANTISEPTICS IN WAR 

Dr. Alexis Carrel, who is working in 
a temporary hospital and laboratory on 
the edge of the Forest of Compiegne, 
six and one-half miles from the front, 
and where it is said the roar of artil- 
lery is distinctly audible, has several 
times emphatically stated that we must 
use antiseptics. By antiseptic treatment 
alone can wound infection be checked. 

Aseptic surgery is all very well in 
time of peace, when wounds are not in- 
fected, but in war all wounds are more 
or less infected, and it is this infec- 
tion rather than the laceration of bone 
and tissue that is responsible for the 
mortality or the need of radical sur- 
gical intervention. 

According to Dr. Carrel's descriptioti, 
the history of a wounded man is briefly 
as follows: He is hit by a bullet or a 
fragment of shell. Mud, bits of cloth- 
ing, etc., are forced into the wound, 
accompanied by steel splinters or bul- 
lets. He may or may not receive first 
aid treatment, and then be passed on to 
an ambulance, thence to a clearing hos- 
pital, and after a long delay is sent to 
the rear by train. He reaches his ulti- 
mate destination thirty-six, or even 
forty-eight hours, or more, after the 
injury occurred. Such a case has been 
more or less roughly handled and pre- 
cious time has been wasted, as it is dur- 
ing this period that infection, whether it 
be gaseous, gangrene or other compli- 
cations, becomes manifest. 

Dr. Carrel states that painting the 
wound with iodine is of little value, 
except to clean the skin, as it fails to 
check infection. The main object is to 
get the man in a clear atmosphere, clean 
the wound and treat it antiseptically, in 
order to kill all infection. This alone 
can prevent further disastrous compli- 
cations. Once a wound is in a healthy 
state and all danger of further infec- 



tion past, a man can easily be sent to 
the rear without risk. 

Dr. Carrel and his assistants are now 
using a compound of chlorine and bo- 
racic acid. 

Dr. Carrel has also stated that he has 
found that small and seemingly insig- 
nificant wounds must be treated with as 
much care and speed as more important 
lesions. Red tape efficiency of organiza- 
tion, in his judgment, is detrimental to 
the individual in the present "Sanitary 
Service." . 

Methods of treating wounds in use at 
the outbreak of the war, and in many 
cases still continued, have patently 
failed. The use of antiseptics inaugu- 
rated by Lister, and to-day championed 
by so eminent a surgeon as Dr. Carrel, 
is worthy of consideration. In the 
present war it has been found that 
wound infection and not bullets is the 
deadly scourge. 



TERMINAL DISINFECTION 

For a considerable period terminal 
disinfection, by the aid of disinfectants * 
and fumigation by formaldehyd, has 
been recognized as a desirable routine 
after the more common infectious dis- 
eases, such as diphtheria, scarlet fever 
and tuberculosis. Recently there has 
been a tendency in some quarters to 
abandon terminal disinfection. Some of 
the advocates of this abandonment urge 
that drying, exposure to sunlight and 
other agencies have a tendency to bring 
about the destruction of infection by i 
processes of nature. The wi§dom of the ■ 
abandonment of terminal disinfection i 
has been seriously combated. 

At the last annual convention of the i 
State and Provincial Boards of Health, 
N. A. Hasseltine seriously questioned 
the wisdom of the abandonment of ter- 
minal disinfection after infectious dis- 
ease. 

The advocates of the abandonment of 



Red Cross Notes 



155 



this practice have always fortified them- 
selves by agreeing that when unusual 
circumstances arise every possible op- 
portunity of destroying even a small 
amount of infection should be empha- 
sized. 

The Journal of the American Medical 
Association suggests that even if it is 
true that the results are quite as good 
without disinfection as under the older 
system, it may be well asked — is it be- 
cause the latter effort was useless or 
because it was not properly carried out? 
The conduct of such an operation as ter- 
minal disinfection is not a tyro's job. 
Even where terminal disinfection is 
abandoned there must be enforced a 
more rigid care surrounding the focus 
of infection. 

Mr. M. J. Rosemau, the well known 
authority, stated that "if terminal disin- 
fection prevented the occurrence of only 
a small number of cases, it would still 
seem to be worth while." 

The Journal of the American Med- 
ical Association tersely stated that "the 
discontinuance of any method of disin- 
fection on the ground that it is useless 
should be based on substantial evidence." 



DOCTORS AND FIRST AID 
The First-aid-to-the-injured move- 
ment has spread to every part of the 
country. Boy Scouts, military schools, 
summer schools and many public schools 
are now teaching the young the first 
principles of self-preservation and the 
art of giving first aid to those in dis- 
tress. Physicians and surgeons are 
being asked to take leadership in the 
movements in many towns and are com- 
plying with the requests. They unhes- 
itatingly give their services to spread 
a knowledge of what should be done, in 
case of an acfcident, before the physician 
arrives on the scene. 
Factory, mine and railroad doctors 



find that they must instruct men in first 
aid treatment. They get inquiries con- 
tinually for information about first aid 
work and first aid equipments. John- 
son & Johnson have published an illus- 
trated catalog on First-aid-to-the-in- 
jured, which answers all of these ques- 
tions for the physician. It describes the 
First Aid Outfits which Johnson & 
Johnson supply in great numbers to fac- 
tories, mines, railways, schools, institu- 
tions, etc., and gives the uses of the 
various materials in the outfits and a 
list of all available supplies and litera- 
ture for instructors and students. 

This catalog will be sent free to 
any doctor or first aid instructor who 
will write for it. Just ask for First 
Aid Catalog No. 110, Address: First 
Aid Department, Johnson & Johnson, 
New Brunswick, N. J. 



BLISTERING TIME TABLE 

The Scientific Department of Johnson 
& Johnson has published a twenty-four- 
page booklet covering, in an interesting 
and informing manner, the subject of 
blistering. In concise form are the facts 
that the busy physician wants to know. 
There are chapters on Hints on Blister- 
ing, Two Ways of Dressing Blisters, 
Cautions About Blistering, Strangury, 
Flying Blisters, from the suggestions of 
Dr. S. Solis Cohen and other author- 
ities. 

A copy of "Blistering Time Table" 
will be sent free to any physician on re- 
quest. Address : Johnson & Johnson, 
New Brunswick, N. J. 



— Papoid will readily digest away all 
dead septic and extraneous matter. 



— Red Cross Absorbent Cotton is 
sterilized ii its last and finishing proc- 
ess. Every ounce and every pound that 
leaves the factory is aseptic. 



Red Cross Notes 

Bacteriological and Other Tests Applied to 



The above label must be placed upon 
every batch of ligatures by the John- 
son & Johnson Bacteriological Labora- 
tories before the packages of finished 
ligatures are permitted to leave the 
manufacturing laboratories for distri- 
bution to the trade. Although prepared 
under perfectly aseptic conditions from 
selected and thoroughly cleansed and 
sterilized intestines of sheep, they must 
stand a final and exacting check-test 
before they are placed in the surgeon's 
hands to he used in delicate operations. 
This test is substantially as follows : 

From each batch of ligatures, as fin- 
ished, a certain number of samples are 
taken. Under precautions and aseptic 
conditions each sample package is 
opened and the ligature strand is re- 
moved from its container with sterile 
forceps and dropped into a tube of pre- 
pared sterile nutrient broth. This is 
subjected to the temperature of the cul- 
ture chamber for a sufficient time, and 
if no growth has taken place it is con- 
sidered conclusive proof that the whole 
of the batch is sterile, and the packages 
are marked with a label similar to that 
shown at the top of this column. 

These tests are supplemented from 
time to time by a microscopical examina- 
tion, by a process of infecting the liga- 
ture material with the test organisms 
and passing the infected ligature through 
the sterilization processes. If no growth 
has taken place in the portion of in- 
fected material that has passed through 
the sterilization process, it is certain 
proof that sterilization has been com- 
plete in all of the ligatures. 



Red Crou Notes 

hires at the Johnson & Johnson Laboratories 



The bacteriological check-tests of our 
ligatures run into many thousands. A 
sample page of the records is shown on 
this page. These bacteriological tests 
are the most perfect means to check the 
efficiency of the sterilization process that 
could be devised, and each one is a guar- 
antee of perfection of the steriliitation. 

In the past there has been consider- 
able confusion in respect to the sizes 
of ligatures, more especially in regard 
to catgut. In order to bring about a 
uniformity of measurement, Johnson Si 
Johnson introduced a rational scale fot 
catgut measurement and adopted a spe- 
cially devised steel gauge for gauging 
the size. Their scale was based upon 
thousandths of an inch, each size being 
three -thousandths of an inch increasf 
over the next smaller one. In con- 
structing this scale the numbers so long 
in use were retained, and so far as pos- 
sible no apparent change was made in 
the sizes of the catgut. Each piece of 
catgut is measured three times by dif- 
ferent people while being sized. 

There is no guesswork about deter- 
mining the tensile strength of ligatures 
at the Johnson 4 Johnson laboratories, 
Testing machines are used to determine 
the tensile strength, they registering the 
number of pounds necessary to break 
catgut or silk. Strands from every coil 
are carefully tested for tensile strength 
and no catgut is used which does not 
stand the required number of pounds. 



1S8 



Red Cross Notes 



THE CARE OF THE TEETH 



A Few Sttsgettioiu As lo One Way to 
Accomplish Absolute Cleanliness or Asep- 
sis Within the Mouth and to Maintain a 
Healthy Condition. 



(Contributed by the Dental Department of 
Johnson A Johnson) 

Probably there is no subject of equal 
importance that receives as little serious 
thought from the average person as the 
proper care of the teeth. It is a sub- 
ject upon which there has been a vast 
amount of study and a vast amount of 
knowledge gained in the past few years. 

Inspection of the mouths of children 
in the public schools and in various in- 
stitutions in the larger cities of the 
United States, in which public dental 
clinics have been established, has 
afforded an opportunity for study of 
the effects of proper care of the mouth 
upon the general health and mental 
faculties; and a great amount of data 
and valuable statistics has been com- 
piled. The evidence is indisputable. 

A clean mouth and teeth in good con- 
dition for thorough mastication are of 
the greatest importance in maintaining 
general health and in assisting the body 
to resist disease. The direct benefits 
that are shown physically and mentally 
are far beyond anything that has been 
realized up to this time. 

Take, for example, a far-from-un- 
usual case, a mouth that is uncared for 
and in which accumulated particles of 
food in a state of decomposition are 
always present, a number of the teeth 
are decayed and all are loaded with tar- 
tar and soft excremental matter, the 
gums are inflamed, spongy and fre- 
quently bleeding if touched. In the 
more advanced diseased conditions 
there may be an exudation of pus from 
around the necks of some of the teeth, 
or there may be abscessed teeth from 



which pus may drain through a fistulous 
opening in the gum. All of this de- 
scribes a condition not uncommon, but 
one that may be met with in a greater 
or lesser degree on all sides. 

This mouth is a source of continuous 
poison to the entire system, that may 
show its effects in various disorders or 
diseased conditions anywhere from the 
crown of the head to the soles of the 
feet. It may be in the head, or it may 
be in the intestinal tract, the kidneys, 
the heart, or in a diseased joint. 

It is known beyond question that dis- 
ease germs from necrosed bone, sur- 
rounding and caused by a tooth in a 
chronic abscessed condition are taken 
up in the circulation of the blood and 
may find lodgment in some remote part 
of the body, where conditions are favor- 
able for their propagation and there 
produce trouble that has never through 
ordinary diagnosis been traced to the 
mouth or teeth for its origin. 

The length of time that a mouth in an 
unhealthy condition and with decayed 
teeth can continue before showing a 
marked effect upon the general health 
depends upon the power of resistance 
and the constitution of the individual. 
It is impossible in an article of this 
kind to go into all the details of the 
train of evils that may result from a 
neglected condition of the mouth and 
the teeth. It is sufficient that they are 
known to exist and are so recognized 
by leading men of the medical and den- 
tal professions. The mouth hygiene 
movement is yet in its infancy, but the 
knowledge that has been gained and is 
being spread before the people is doing 
great good, and the next few years will 
show wonderful changes in the knowl- 
edge of the public upon this subject. 

The direct penalties that one must 
pay for neglect of the mouth and teeth 
through decayed teeth, toothache and 
eventual loss of the teeth, are pretty 



Red Cross Notes 



159 



well known to every one, though it is 
not often realized until so late that 
serious damage has been done, but it 
would seem that with what is now com- 
mon knowledge upon the subject, that 
everyone would be impressed with the 
necessity for devoting sufficient time 
each day to accomplish the cleanliness 
that is essential to a healthy condition 
of the mouth. 

The germ which produces decay in 
the teeth has its origin in soft deposits 
and in decomposing particles of food 
which lodge about and in the spaces 
between the teeth. Details of the proc- 
ess by which this decay takes place are 
unnecessary here. The cause is indis- 
putable. To prevent it, the all-impor- 
tant factor is cleanliness. If absolute 
cleanliness, or asepsis, could be main- 
tained within the mouth the problem 
would be solved. To attain as nearly 
as possible this condition is what each 
must strive for. It is our purpose here 
to offer a few suggestions as to one of 
the ways to accomplish the best results. 
There are other ways, but this is the 
best way that we have been able to 
work out. 

The first step to be taken is to have 
all necessary fillings taken care of and 
the mouth put in thorough order by a 
capable dentist. The services of a den- 
tist at regular intervals (the duration 
of which he can best decide upon) to ex- 
amine the mouth and give the necessary 
attention promptly, are essential. The 
old-time dread of visiting the dentist 
should be, and is largely, a thing of the 
past. There rarely is ground for it in 
modern dentistry, and even when some 
pain may be unavoidable there is much 
more to be dreaded by not going than 
there need be in going. 

The toothbrush comes next, and un- 
til there is something better discovered 
to take the place, it will continue to be 
one of the important factors in the 



practical cleaning of the mouth and 
teeth. It is preferable where possible 
for every person to have two tooth- 
brushes in commission at a time, so that 
each may be kept clean and have time 
to dry out. It is a good plan to have 
them vary a little in form, and at least 
one of them should have the bristles of 
different lengths, arranged in tufts or 
ridges. The brush should not be so 
large nor so stiff in the bristles as to be 
uncomfortable to use. 

The teeth should in the main be 
brushed up and down, with a rolling 
motion, and as a rule bring the brush 
from the gums down on to the teeth, 
not brush against the margin of the 
gums. So far as possible, touch all of 
the surfaces of each tooth that the 
brush is accessible to. Think of each 
tooth as you do it until the habit is 
formed. The teeth should be brushed 
at least twice a day — first, as part of the 
morning toilet with a proper dentifrice, 
as an act of common cleanliness and for 
the good-will of your associates; at 
night, upon retiring, the teeth should 
be brushed as a part of the procedure 
in connection with floss silk in remov- 
ing all particles of food from around 
and between the teeth. 

A good dentifrice that has thorough 
cleansing properties without injurious 
qualities should be used at least once a 
day. The two efficient materials for 
this purpose are the finest grade of pre- 
cipitated chalk and a mild neutral soap. 
They are the best materials known to 
the world to-day for the purpose. They 
are not injurious and they will clean 
the teeth and mouth thoroughly. The 
chalk must be of the finest quality and 
the soap a mild neutral one. They are 
better to be combined, and this can be 
done in form of either a paste or a soap. 
Johnson & Johnson put up both forms — 
the paste under the name of Zonweiss 



160 



Red Cross Notes 



and the soap under the name of Lis- 
ter's Tooth Soap. 

There is no mystery in connection 
with the combination of the ingredients. 
They are simply the finest grade of pre- 
cipitated chalk and neutral soap flavored 
with essential oils to make them agree- 
able to the taste and possibly add to 
their efficiency. 

In Zonweiss the chalk predominates; 
in Lister's Tooth Soap the soap predom- 
inates. Neither one is medicated. They 
simply clean the teeth thoroughly and 
without injury. No strongly medicated 
dentifrice should be used regularly. 
When medication is needed in the 
mouth let it be under you dentist's direc- 
tion. 

Mysterious compounds that are 
claimed to give marvelous results as 
dentifrices, prevent decay, destroy germ 
life, etc., are a delusion. If they could 
do what they are said to do they would 
be dangerous. Cleanliness without in- 
jury is all that is necessary to accom- 
plish. 

Care should be taken to keep the tooth 
brushes clean. Two brushes for each 
person are preferable, as already men- 
tioned. After using, the brush should 
be thoroughly rinsed and placed where 
it will dry quickly — if possible in direct 
sunlight. Never shut up a wet brush 
in a close receptacle, though do not ex- 
pose it to dust more than is necessary. 
A thin linen or cotton cloth bag with 
stitched pockets for each brush, and the 
bag hung so that it gets the air, is a 
good arrangement. 

The brush may be sufficiently ster- 
ilized occasionally in a simple way that 
will answer for all practical purposes. 
One way is to wash it out with hot 
water and a strong laundry soap, not 
leaving it in the hot water long enough 
to injure the setting of the bristles. 

Another way, requiring less labor, and 
even more effective, is to immerse the 



brush for a half hour or more in an 
open-mouth bottle containing a solution 
made of one part of S3mol liquid soap 
(Johnson & Johnson) and nine parts 
of water, or a solution of one part 
Camphenol (Johnson & Johnson) to 
nineteen parts water; then rinsing the 
brush and drying it. Any one of these 
methods is all that is necessary, and 
the tooth brush may be relied upon as 
a safe weapon in the defense of health 

The next step, and the most impor- 
tant factor in the prevention of decay, 
is the use of dental floss silk, carefully 
drawn between the teeth for the pur- 
pose of removing all particles of food 
that lodge in the spaces, and cleanmg 
the proximal surfaces where the brush 
will not penetrate. 

The thorough use of dental floss silk 
three times a day, after meals, every 
day in the year, is of more importance 
in preventing the start of decay and 
preserving the fillings that you already 
have than any one thing you can do in 
the care of your teeth. 

The brush is used for common clean- 
liness of the mouth, but even when the 
mouth looks and feels clean, the spaces 
between the teeth may be in a condition 
most favorable to the propagation of the 
germs producing decay, unless floss silk 
is used to clean them. There is no 
mechanical contrivances for using floss 
silk between the teeth that is equal to the 
delicate touch of the fingers. 

Take about one foot length of floss, 
wrap one end around the point of the 
first finger of the left hand, using the 
second finger of the left hand to guide 
the silk, hold the other end of the floss 
with a wrap on the second finger of the 
right hand, using the first finger of the 
right hand to guide it, draw the silk 
through all of the spaces with a lifting 
motion so as to engage and remove all 
particles of food. Be careful not to in- 
jure the gums. A little practice makes 



Red Cross Notes 



161 



this a very simple operation, and it is 
quickly done. 

Toothpicks will not accomplish what 
floss silk does, and with wood toothpicks 
injury is likely to be done to the gums. 

Pocket Floss (J. & J.) in small flat 
metal boxes is a particularly convenient 
form for the pocket. The best forms 
for general toilet use are Lister Floss 
and the New Era Floss (J. & J.), both 
in aseptic glass containers that keep the 
floss in a thoroughly clean condition. 

Now, just a word to mothers regard- 
ing the care of children's teeth. Any 
trouble that may arise during the pe- 
riod of teething should, of course, be 
brought to the attention of the physi- 
cian or dentist. The first, or temporary, 
teeth of the child should have the same 
attention given to them, as to proper 
care and cleanliness, that you give to 
your own teeth. The mother should at- 
tend to removing food deposits as far 
as possible up to the time the child can 
be taught to use a small soft brush, and 
this should be at an early age. The 
temporary teeth require care to pre- 
serve them for the length of time that 
nature intends them to last, and they 
are necessary to the proper erupting of 
the permanent teeth. 

Remember that during the sixth year 
the first permanent teeth make their 
appearance back of the molars, or 
"back teeth" of the temporary set. 
These sixth-year molars are frequently 
sacrificed for want of care, because the 
mother does not realize that they are the 
first of the permanent teeth. Their 
care and preservation is most impor- 
tant. Teach the child to rinse its mouth 
thoroughly, to force the water between 
the teeth, as well as to use the brush. 

Prospective mothers should have their 
teeth in good condition at the start and 
give them particular care, for during 
the period of pregnancy the teeth are 
wore subject to decay, and may give 



trouble at a time when it is difficult to 
have them properly treated. 

This about covers the subject of the 
daily care of the teeth. 

Where a simple detergent wash is 
desired for the mouth and gums in 
case of soreness, and the mouth has 
been put in order by your dentist, a 
very mild solution of Camphenol, one- 
half teaspoon ful only in a pint of wa- 
ter, will be found of value, and is an 
efficient deodorant if needed in that way. 

It takes persistent care to keep the 
mouth in proper condition — systematic 
and thorough care — but the habit is 
easily formed and takes but a few 
minutes each day. It becomes as much 
a part of the toilet as washing the face 
and hands, and must be done thoroughly 
today and every day in the year. 

You collect great, big pay yourself 
for the time spent, and no one can take 
it away from you. You have a "good 
feeling in your mouth" that adds to 
your self-respect, and remember, a 
healthy mouth is an important factor in 
maintaining a healthy body. 

Let the habit be so firmly fixed that 
it cannot be lost. 



DR. BILLY SUNDRIED 

The average man will give an attor- 
ney from three to five thousand dollars, 
together with a lifetime of praise, to 
keep him out of the penitentiary for 
from two to ten years, yet at the same 
time will raise a phosphorescent glow 
and a kick that can be heard around the 
world, if a doctor charges him fifty or a 
hundred dollars to keep him out of Hell 
for a lifetime. We are the only people, 
under God's ethereal tent to-day, who 
keep open shop for twenty-four hours 
a day, for three hundred and sixty-five 
days each year. We are also the only 
laborers who keep on working for peo- 
ple who do not pay. — Bulletin Lawrence 
Co. Med. Soc'y via Med, Council 



16^ 



Red Cross Notes 



SURGICAL GAUZE 



The Most Conveiiiciil aiul the Moel Uteful 
DrcMing Material Known Ai Prepared At 
the Johnson Sc Johnson Laboratories. 



(Contribution from the Scientific Department 
of Johnson A Johnson) 

Gauze cloth, otherwise known as sur- 
gical gauze, came into use as a wound 
dressing with Listerism. Lister first ap- 
plied lint, afterwards what was known 
as cheese-cloth, which by evolution was 
converted into surgical gauze, and finally 
he evolved a combination of absorbent 
gauze and cotton. The tendency of 
modern surgical technique has been to 
simplify dressings. All other substances 
have, to a large extent, been abandoned, 
and gauze now constitutes the major 
dressing material. 

A good quality surgical gauze has nu- 
merous and obvious advantages over any 
other material for this purpose. It is 
highly absorbent, pliable, with an open 
texture that is firm and strong. It is 
free from the loose fibres and irritating 
particles found in unspun cotton. It is 
cool, light and readily shaped into re- 
quired forms. 

Surgical gauze in the operating room 
acts primarily as a covering and pro- 
tective, and if of sufficient thickness 
filters the external air that passes 
through to the wound. It is firm 
enough to bring together any incised or 
separated parts. Its fibres act, to a cer- 
tain extent, as plugs or compresses to 
the small blood vessels which may have 
been severed. The absorptive power of 
good gauze is ample to receive and re- 
tain a sufficient quantity of blood to 
coagulate and coat the injured part and 
thereby check the flow. 

Gauze is also employed to absorb dis- 
charges which would infect surrounding 
area if not seized upon by an absorbent 
and removed. In the early technique 



antiseptics or disinfectants were used to 
impregnate gauze dressings. In mod- 
ern surgery a piece of sterile gauze is 
sometimes the only dressing employed. 

Taken altogether, surgical gauze may 
be considered the most convenient and 
the most useful dressing material now 
known. 

Gauze cloth in the cotton trade is 
known as cheese-cloth, tobacco cloth or 
unbleached gauze, and is quite distinct 
from surgical gauze, although large 
quantities of the former are used for 
surgical purposes. In England and on 
the Continent gauze is spun and woven 
solely for surgical uses, and there is one 
such maker in the United States. 

The method of preparing cotton fibre 
for manufacture into surgical gauze in- 
volves a long series of mechanical and 
chemical processes, a description oi 
which lies outside of our present pur- 
pose. 

In the surgical gauzes as found on the 
market there is a marked variation in the 
length of the fibre, the size and weight 
of the thread, yardage per pound, and 
other physical and chemical characteris- 
tics. The earlier surgical gauzes were 
made of Egyptian cotton, carried an 
equal number of threads each way, and 
were hand-finished. The hand-finish 
kept the threads straight; the final prod- 
uct was less white, but more elastic. 

In some samples of gauze in our mar- 
ket there will be found certain dressings 
or loadings added to improve appear- 
ance, to increase the weight, to assist in 
holding the gauze out to its full width, 
and the like. 

In the cotton trade, gauze and cloths 
of this character are standardized by 
taking a square inch and counting the 
number of threads. For example, a 
high-grade gauze carrying forty longi- 
tudinal and forty-four cross threads per 
square inch, carried eighty-four inches 
of thread. 



Red Cross Notes 



24x20 Ihrcadi t 



:, gray or 

on mills. 

g as little 
or thirty 

It should be noted that very little 
surgical gauze in the market is full 
thirty-six inches in width. This is ac- 
counted for by the fact that these goods 
ire woven in the gray thirty-six inches 
wide, and it is not practicable to bleach 
the goods, render them absorbent and 
retain their full width. The usual 
rariation is about one inch per yard. In 
other words, the average width will be 
found to be about thirty-five inches. 

The following table shows the threads 
pft inch, the average yardage per pound 



of the best known grades of surgical 

Surgical Gauze 
Threads per Inch. Yards per Pound 

44 K 40 9.38 

32x26 14.81 

28 X 24 16.00 

24 X 20 18.83 

20 X 12 23.20 

The National Formulary (first edi- 
tion), adopted as a standard two brands, 
Lehigh £, and Stillwater. These grades 
(now practically out of the market) 
contained about sixty-four threads per 
square inch, and their weight was a lit- 
tle less than 800 grains to the square 
yard. 

Several attempts have been made look- 
ing towards a standardization of surgi- 
cal gauze. In these attempts at stand- 
ardization our Scientific Department has 
been active. 

The Bureau of Municipal Research of 
New York City has adopted a standard 
for surgical gauze substantially as fol- 

"The gauze shall count in the finished 
state not less than the total number of 
threads per square inch specified; shall 
not exceed the yardage per pound spe- 
cified ; it shall be free from loadings, 
and shall be acceptable by the Bureau as 
first quality in every respect. Gauze 
delivered under these specifications is 
required to be made from clean, white, 



Red Cross Notes 



long cotlon libre. fully bleached and 
absorbent, of »oft finish, and upon ex- 
mction with acidulated water {two per 
cent hydrochloric acid) it shall show a 
loss of not more than one per cent, and 
the reaction shall show no reaction for 
staixh, soap, dextrin, glac or other 

The object of the foregoing t 
tr^Ution with acidulated 
prevent the addition of starch, soap, 
dextrin or glue for making weight, in- 
creasing the apparent size of thread. 



The enolulion of s 



The Medical Supply Depot of Ihe 
United States Army has adopted the 
following specifications : 

Plain Absorbent Gauze 

Medical Supply Depot, U. S. Army 

1. Gauze, plain, I yard wide, 28x24 
mesh in the gray, minimum weight, 27 
grams; maximum. 31.5 grams, per yard 
(16.8 to 14.4 yards per pound), in ?' 
yard pieces, each piece to be put up it 
sealed carton; packed 75 cartons in boj, 
boxes to be made of ^-inch (finished 
size) white pine or spruce lumber. 

2. Free from loading material and 
visible particles other than cotton, ' 
be colorless. 

3. Two yards boiled in 500 c.c o 
tilled water for one -half hour, boiling 
distilled water being added at intervals, 
to replace that lost by evaporation, the 
water pressed out, rinsed with sufficient 
boiling distilled water to measure 505 
ex. cooled to 25* C. and made up to 500 
ex. with distilled water at 25° C, shall 
yield a turbidity not more than that pn>- 
dnced by 0.030 gram of infusorial earth 
(passed through a 2(X)-mesh sieve), well 
shaken in 500 c.c. of distilled water in a 
colorless glass bottle, when examined bj 
transmitted light. 

4. Two yards boiled in 500 c.c. neu- 
tral distilled water for one-half hour, 
boiling distilled water being added at 
intervals to replace that lost by evapora- 
tion, the water pressed out, cooled to 
25° C, and divided into two equal parts; 
one part shall be neutral to three drops 
of phenolphthalein test solution, the 
other to one drop ot methyl orange test 
solution. 

5. Two yards boiled in 500 c.c. dis- 
tilled water for one-half hour, boiling 
distilled water being added at intervals 
to keep the volume at the original quan- 
tity, the water pressed out and rinsing 
twice with 250 c.c. portions of boiling 
distilled water, the water pressed out 
and the total volume evaporated to dry- 
ness in a platinum dish and kept at lOO* 
C. until constant in weight, shall yield 
not more than 0.13 per cent, by weight 
of residue, of which not more than 0-045 
per cent, shall be inorganic. 

6. One yard extracted with 95 per 
cent, ethyl alcohol in a Soxhlet extractor 
for five hours shall yield a solid extract, 
when dried at 100° C. of not more than 
0.55 per cent, by weight. 



Red Cross Notes 



165 



7. One yard extracted with ethyl 
ether in a Soxhlet extractor for five 
hours shall vield a solid extract when 
dried at 100 C. of not more than 0.55 
per cent, by weight. 

8. One yard incinerated in a platinum 
crucible shall yield not more than 0.055 
per cent, by weight of ash, containing 
potassium, sodium, magnesium, calcium, 
iron and aluminum, which were origin- 
ally in combination with hydrochloric, 
sulphuric, and phosphoric acids. 

9. One yard folded into a square, the 
surface of which measures 16 square 
inches, with the loose ends loosely 
joined by No. 30 white cotton thread, 
when held nearly in contact with the 
surface of distilled water and dropped 
thereon, at 25** C. temperature, shall be 
completely submerged in five seconds. 

The surgical gauze of Johnson & 
Johnson in every grade will fully, and 
in every respect, meet the above stand- 
ards. 



HANDBOOK OF LIGATURES 

Johnson & Johnson have published a 
monograph on ligatures which should 
be in the hands of every surgeon and 
upon the shelves of every hospital's 
library. It is called "Handbook of Lig- 
atures," contains 48 pages and a cover 
and is illustrated. The Johnson & John- 
son catgut ligatures are recognized as 
the best available, being prepared under 
absolutely aseptic conditions, handled 
by experts from the moment they leave 
the animal to the time they are sealed 
in glass tubes or double envelopes. 
There is no comparison between their 
product and the ordinary commercial 
slaughter-house catgut. The Johnson & 
Johnson product has the highest testi- 
monials from surgeons and hospitals. 

Believing that the medical profession 
is interested in the preparation of liga- 
tures, Johnson & Johnson have issued 
this Handbook. It is written with sin- 
cerity and scientific accuracy, reveals the 
unsanitary and disgusting conditions 
under which catgut was so long pre- 



^f 



Handbooic 



il, 






i 



The new and revised edition of this book 
sent on request 

pared, and describes the new sanitary 
process by which all chance of infection 
remaining in the tightly wound strands 
of sheep intestines is removed. The il- 
lustrations show the laboratories where 
the ligatures are prepared, the material 
in its raw and finished state, the process 
of chromicizing or hardening, the meth- 
od of conducting the bacteriological 
tests, the various sizes, the apparatus for 
testing the tensile strength of ligatures, 
the proper method of tying the knot, 
the proper method of opening the en- 
velopes. A list of the various ligatures 
prepared by Johnson & Johnson is given. 
The "Handbook of Ligatures" will 
gladly be sent to any physician, nurse 
or hospital superintendent interested 
upon receipt of a request to the Scien- 
tific Department of Johnson & Johnson. 



— The leading feature of Red Cross 
Absorbent Cotton is that it is pre- 
pared in a laboratory where the law of 
surgical cleanliness guides and over- 
rules all things else. 



166 



Red Cross Notes 




PHYSICIAN PRAISES SYNOL 
Dr. W. S. Randolph, specialist in 
typhoid fever, of Oakhurst, Texas, has 
found Synol Soap of inestimable value 
in typhoid cases, not losing one case in 
over one hundred treated. He writes : 

"During a practice extending over a 
period of more than thirty years I have 
had occasion to test the merits of a 
large number of soaps, among the num- 
ber Synol Soap, manufactured by John- 
son & Johnson, of New Brunswick, N. 
J. I must say, in justice to its true and 
intrinsic merits, that I have, after a 
thorough test, found it superior to all 
others I have ever used and can unqual- 
ifiedly recommend it to the confidence of 
my colleagues everywhere. I have 
treated a large number of typhoid pa- 
tients during mv career as a physician 
most successfully and I have adopted 
the rule to have my patients washed 
thoroughly daily with warm water and 
Synol Soap. It thoroughly cleanses the 
skin and imparts a sense of well-being 
to the patient that nothing else does so 
well. 

"I attribute much of the excellent 
success I have had in the treatment of 
typhoid fever to having my patient 
bathed daily with this valuable soap. 

"In this section there are many cases 
of tetter, or salt rheum. In treating 
these cases, which are often very ob- 
stinate, I invariably have the patient 
wash well with Synol Soap before ap- 
plying the ointment. Then the admin- 
istration of arsenic and sulphur effects 
a rapid cure. Before I began to use 
Synol Soap in these cases as an acces- 
sory to the general treatment, I found 
the cases more difficult to combat. 

"Synol Soap has very many valuable 
uses, I have found, but in this short let- 
ter I have space to mention only a few, 
but these will suffice to call the atten- 



tion of the profession to its value, to 
pay a true tribute to a most worthy 
product." 



VACCINATION SHIELDS 
Dr. J. Spencer Callen, of Shenandoah, 
Pa., has found that Johnson & Johnson 
corn pads make excellent and econom- 
ical vaccination shields. His experience 
will interest all of the physicians of the 
country and show some of them how 
they can save time in handling vaccina- 
tion cases. Dr. Callen writes : 

"Believing it wise and a pleasure to 
pass a good thing along, I wish to state 
that as a busy physician I have econo- 
mized much precious time by using hun- 
dreds of your round corn pads to en- 
circle and protect vaccination scars. 

"After each vaccination I use a pad, 
directing that it be removed at bedtime, 
or upon arising in the morning, and be 
thrown in the fire. 

"Experience has taught me that it is 
wise to explicitly so direct to avoid 
foolishness of continuing to wear it or 
the nightly removing and the morning 
reapplication of the pad. 

"In using these pads I can imme- 
diately dismiss the patient, who must 
otherwise remain in office or reception 
room twenty minutes for the virus to 
dry to secure its efficiency; unless we 
put a more expensive shield over the 
scar. 

"The thin pads are better than the 
thicker kind, and the round better than 
the oval or square, and the small or 
corn plasters better than the bunion 
plasters for my use. 

"My idea has been adopted with pleas- 
ure by most of our town physicians and 
by my personal acquaintances. My sug- 
gestion is made only because of my 
good-will to the other man." 



Red Cross Notes 



167 



VACCINATION 

Dr. Le Grand Kerr, of Brooklyn, sug- 
gests the application of vaccine virus 
subcutaneously, especially in the case of 
children. He uses an ordinary hypo- 
dermic syringe with a very fine needle. 
One drop of the virus is shaken up with 
five to ten minims of a normal salt solu- 
tion, and placed in the barrel of the 
syringe. The site chosen for injection 
is thoroughly cleansed with soap and 
alcohol. The point of the needle is then 
introduced as nearly parallel with the 
surface of the skin as possible, so that 
before the virus is released the needle 
may be raised and its exact situation 
observed through the skin. 

Dr. Kerr has used three sites for in- 
jection — ^the back, just belo./ the angle 
of the scapula ; the upper portion of the 
buttocks, and the outer aspect of the 
thigh, about its upper third, the last 
being the best situation for children. 

The doctor states that by this meth- 
od the inflammatory areola is less wide- 
spread, and the itching is practically ab- 
sent; that with this method there is 
rarely a rupture of the vesicle, but in- 
stead a gradual transition from an un- 
broken vesicle to a protecting scab. The 
resulting scar is typical but smaller. 

The doctor further points out that 
in children the rapidity of the proced- 
ure, the obviation of scarification and 
rubbing in of the virus, is important; 
that primary cleanliness is conserved, 
protection is assured against the usual 
itching, and consequently there is no 
scratching and spreading. The protect- 
ing scab offers further insurance against 
infection. 

The procedure diminishes the oppor- 
tunity for primary and secondary in- 
fection. 



A NEW USE FOR "Z O" 

Dr. Charles W. Nehl, of 4139 Carter 
Avenue, St. Louis, Mo., has found "Z O" 
Adhesive Plaster an effective means of 
removing gunpowder from the face. 
Under recent date he writes : 

"Having used your *Z O' Plaster for 
years, I thought it might be interesting 
to give you a new use of J. & J. *Z O* 
Plaster. 

"A boy came into my office with his 
entire face studded with powder blown 
from a blank cartridge with which he 
had been playing. The question to be 
solved was how to get these fragments 
out of the skin. I tried various means, 
also trying to pick them out. This 
seemed an endless and painful job, so I 
thought of some other means to get 
them out quickly. I naturally thought of 
Johnson & Johnson's *Z O' Plaster, so 
I put same to use. I saturated a towel 
in hot water, applied same to different 
parts, and immediately put small strips 
of *Z O' Plaster to different parts and 
left them applied for twenty-four hours, 
when, to my joy, it did exactly what I 
thought could be done with J. & J. 
*Z O* Plaster. These strips when re- 
moved were literally covered with frag- 
ments of powder which could be clearly 
seen under a magnifying glass. The 
entire face, ears, neck, nose, etc., were 
cleaned up in a hurry. 

"The above new application of your 
*Z O* Plaster may not be of much use 
to you, or probably of no interest, yet it 
might help some one out of a difficulty. 
I have mentioned the above to several 
friend physicians and surgeons, who 
thought it was an excellent idea, espe- 
cially in view of the fact that it does 
not scar the face and does the work 
quickly. The *Z O* seems to open the 
tissue surrounding the powder, thus 
allowing it to adhere to the plaster." 



— The atom is the unit of matter. The 
electron is the unit of force. Matter 
and force are merely different manifes- 
tations of the same thing. 



— Physiology is the sum of scientific 
knowledge concerning living beings. 



— Papoid, when externally applied, 
accomplished its physiological work by 
erosion, manifesting with marked vigor 
its solvent and detergent energy. 



Aids to Mouth Hygiene 



'—I^ 



•^ONWEISS and Lister's Tooth Soap are mad 
^— grade of precipitated chalk and neutral soap 
essential oils to make them agreeable to the taste 

In Zonweiss, which is a paste, the chalk prec 
Lister's Tooth Soap the soap predominates, Neith* 
cated. They simply clean the teeth thoroughly 
and without injury. 

Pocket Floss (J & J) is sold in small flat 
metal boxes and LiSTER Floss and NEW ERA 
Floss (J & J) are sold in aseptic glass containers. 

Where a simple detergent wash is desired for 
the mouth and gums a very mild solution of Cam- 
phenol will be found of value. It is also an 
efficient deodorant. 

JOHNSON & JOHNSON 

New Brunswick, N, J, 



i^ Series VIL 



Number Seven 






The Check Tests 



THE bacteriological tests employed in the Johnson & Johnson labora- 
tories are the most perfect means to check the efficiency of the 
sterilization process of ligatures that could be devised. Each test 
is a guarantee of the perfection of the sterilization. 

Before any finished ligatures are sent from our laboratory they are 
subjected to the following tests by the bacteriological laboratory : 

Samples are taken from each batch of finished ligatures. 

Under proper precautions and aseptic conditions the package is opened 
and the ligature strand is removed from its container with sterilized 
forceps and dropped into a tube of prepared sterile nutrient broth. 

This is subjected to the temperature of the culture chamber for a 
sufficient time. 

If no growth has taken place it is considered condusive proof that 
the whole of the batch is sterile, and the packages are labeled with the 
test number. 

These tests are supplemented from time to time by a microscopical 
examination, by a process of infecting the ligature material with test 
organisms and passing the infected ligature through the sterilization 
processes. 

If no growth has taken place in the portion of infected material that 
has passed through the sterilization process, we are certain that sterilization 
has been complete in all of the Kgatures. 

Johnson & Johnson's vigilance in handling catgut never ceases from 

the second the intestines leave the animal until 
the ligatures are placed in the surgeon s hamds 
for use. The surgeon can use them with 
absolute confidence. 

Send for the "Handbook of Ligatures". 
By text and by picture the book shows our 
whole unique process of preparing catgut liga- 
tures and contains many informing articles on 
catgut absorption, resorption, the method of 
chromicizing, the new and rational scale for 
measurement and other information. It will 
be sent free on request. Address 

Scientific Department 

JOHNSON & JOHNSON 

New Brunswick, N. J. 



Handbook. 



4Uh«i 



RED CROSS NOTES 



COPYRIGTIT 1916 BY JOHNSON & JOHNSON 



Series VII New Brunswick, N. J. Number Seven 



RED CROSS NOTES 
Published by Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, N. J., U. S. A. 

Fred B. Kilmer, Editor 

This publication is issued from the laboratories of the publishers with the intent 
to give, in brief, items of interest and reports of original research along the line of 
the particular branches of the art in which they labor. 

Persons receiving Red Cross Notes will confer a favor by notifying the publishers of 
any inaccuracy in the address on the wrapper and of any change of their address. 



The Purpose of This Issue 

The importance of adhesive plaster in present day surgery and 
in therapy is acknowledged. This is due in part to the amplification 
and evolution of procedure, wherein the ingenuity of the surgeon 
has found many new and extended uses for this plaster, and in part 
to the fact that the forms of adhesive plaster have been modified and 
improved so as to admit of a larger range of application than that 
which formerly obtained. 

It is to be noted that the evolution of the art of plaster making 
has entirely changed the character of adhesive plaster — a bland, 
non-irritating adhesive plaster has been produced — aseptic adhesive 
plaster has been made possible. 

From our Laboratory there have been issued from time to time, 
monographs and pamphlets illustrating and describing the manifold 
uses of adhesive plaster. These issues have become exhausted, and 
in response to many inquiries we take occasion in this issue of the 
Notes to re-publish a number of the more important uses for adhe- 
sive plaster, together with a number of additions. 

The methods shown herein are in the main those which have 
been directly contributed by able authorities in this country and 
abroad. The illustrations are reproduced directly from photographs 
or drawings made in the operating room. 

The editor and the publishers acknowledge their indebtedness to 
the authorities quoted, as well as the many hospitals, surgeons and 
practitioners who have assisted in the preparation of these pages. 



m 



Red Cross Notes 



CONTINUOUS EXTENSION 



Aaheaive PUfter b An EwentUl Part of All 
Forms of ApparatuJ for Contmuoui EKtension, 
Sayt Dr. Scdbd of Parit in Tkedt on E>r. 
Baidy't WorL 

An interesting event in the surgical 
practice in France has been the publica- 
tion of a thesis by Dr. Raymond-Jean- 
Theophile Steibel, Doctor of the Faculty 
of Medicine in Paris, entitled, "La Verit- 
able Extension Continue par TAppariel 
de Jean Paul Barety." 

In this thesis Dr. Steibel gives an ex- 
tended explanation of the apparatus and 
the methods of Dr. Barety in cases of 
fracture of the femur and coxalgies. 
Incidentally the publication pays great 
tribute to Dr. Jean Paul Barety of Nice, 
France, who prior to his death had de- 
voted his life and his ingenuity to the 
improvement of apparatus for continu- 
ous extension. Notwithstanding his un- 
timely death at the age of twenty-five, 
his biographer states that "the essential 
qualities of a man of French science 
were in Jean Paul Barety. His work de- 
serves the highest consideration. His 
death was cruel for his friends and cruel 
for science." 

The following has been translated for 
Red Cross Notes from the thesis cited: 

Adhesive plaster is an essential part 
of all forms of apparatus for continu- 
ous extension. It is through the medium 
of adhesive plaster that one can exer- 
cise traction of the limb and on its 
quality depends the greatest part of the 
success. The inherent defects of the 
adhesive plaster used up to the present 
time are sufficient in themselves to ex- 
plain why the process of traction by 
adhesive straps has been so often criti- 
cized and abandoned. The adhesive 
often used in a little time caused ery- 
"^'•^atous excoriation of the skin, ren- 



dering it necessary to suspend the ap- 
plication of the extension. 

Diachylon plaster, the principal ele- 
ment of all so-called adhesive plasters, 
has a very complicated formula. The 
formulas laid down in the treatise on 
pharmacy do not allow of any purifi- 
cation of the ingredients, nor do they 
assure the sterility or the cleanliness of 
the product. It necessarily follows that 
the prolonged application of this prod- 
uct to the skin during weeks and months 
causes all kinds of irritation, itching and 
even suppuration. This undoubtedly is 
the principal cause that has led to the 
abandonment of this system of traction. 

Suggestions have been made for the 
use of trusses and dressings more or 
less complicated, often constricting and 
usually expensive and at times intoler- 
able for the patient. 

Jean Paul Barety, realizing this condi- 
tion and attributing it to the fault of 
the adhesive plaster, determined to find 
a different product prepared with more 
system and less harmful. He first 
sought to simplify the old formula and 
this without success. The products first 
used by him lacked adhesiveness, their 
application was modified by the sur- 
rounding temperature, a thousand pre- 
cautions were necessary in order to 
make their application successful. Dur- 
ing these investigations, Dr. Barety re- 
ceived one morning by chance a sample 
of American adhesive plaster of the 
manufacture of Johnson & Johnson, 
New Brunswick, N. J., designated as 
Z O Adhesive Plaster. Dr. Barety made 
use of this plaster and the results were 
such that from that day he no longer 
used any other adhesive. 

Three years ago we made' investiga- 
tions to ascertain what was the compo- 
sition of this product, its method of 
manufacture and utilization. The re- 
sults of these investigations we are 



Red Cross Notes 




tested some of the other products which 
we here cite. The table here shown is 
the result of applying the adhesive strips 
on a cylinder of thin rubber, the hol- 
low of which was filled with fine sand, a 
depression being made on the surface 
in the axis of the cylinder. 

Surface Adhcsiye- 



applica 



■ mpk 



Ngs. 



paU'lIr '""'='' '"""""' "' "'■ ^"'"■' ^"^ 1 30 4750 158.33 

2 20 6.500 325 

happy to make known as giving the best ^ 20 8.980 449 

results. From the manufacturers we '* *> 5,890 147.25 

have learned that in the preparation of ^ 25 7.600 344 

Z Plaster, improvements have been ° ^ 5.900 295 

made not only in the quality of the rub- In the course of our observations and 

ber used but in the preparation of the as a result of these additional tests we 

other substances which make up the have been able to make on the different 

compound, and in these processes the adhesive products, we have never found 

impurities and harmful elements which a product whose fabrication is as perfect 

make up the ordinary adhesives of com- and as constant in its quality as Z O 

merce have been eliminated. The per- Adhesive Plaster. Each time we have 

fection of processes not only assures the used this adhesive plaster we have al- 

adhesiveness of the mass but the effi- ways been able to establish our traction 

ciency of the plasters and produces a as strong as we had ever seen it, with- 

product which, at no matter what the out ever being subject to the annoyance 

temperature, the adhesiveness is quite of slipping or non-adhesiveness or hav- 

rapid and the heat oi the body is sufli- ing to resort to any procedure. Finally, 

cient to increase without doing away in the use of Z O Adhesive Plaster we 

with any of the qualities of the product. have never had any erythema or exco- 

In the course of our studies we have nation, nor have we even been subjected 



172 



Red Cross Notes 



to the necessity of suspending the ap- 
plication of the extension. In a word, 
Z () is a perfect product and all sur- 
geons who have attempted to apply the 
apparatus devised by Dr. Barety for 
continuous extension for fractures of 
the thigh or coxalgia have the greatest 
interest and the greatest satisfaction in 
using this product, which is no other 
than No. 3 in the table shown. 



THE NEW PHARMACOPEIA 

The Ninth Revision of the United 
States Pharmacopeia has been compiled 
and became technically official Septem- 
ber 1, 1916. A delay in publication, how- 
ever, has prevented the actual applica- 
tion of the revision by druggists and 
manufacturers. This revision of the 
Pharmacopeia is important from the 
fact that under the National Iu)od and 
Drugs Act the work is made the stand- 
ard for all drugs and medicines em- 
l)raced therein. 

The revision is also important from 
the fact that the eminent committee of 
revision has spent over six years of 
most arduous labor in putting it to- 
gether. It will be found to contain the 
latest and the licst in the realm of phar- 
macy and materia mcdica. In addition 
to the usual matter found in the Phar- 
macopeia, such as standards of purity, 
the present revision includes test solu- 
tions, volumetric solutions, processes of 
biological assay, diagnostical reagents, 
general test tables, etc. 

It is needless to state that the prepa- 
rations of such manufacturers as John- 
son & Johnson will l)e found in all re- 
spects to comply with the Pharmaco- 
peia, and all material entering into their 
preparations and the finished products 
are judged by the standard outlined in 
this work. Indeed, the laboratory of 
Johnson & Johnson has lieen privileged 
to assist the committee in this work of 



revision. We believe that every physi- 
cian should be familiar with the Phar- 
macopeia, especially in respect to the 
standard strength of preparations, 
standards of purity, etc. 



ADHESIVE PLASTER 

At the present day when the term 
"adhesive plaster" is used it is intended 
to mean a plaster made with an india- 
rubber mass, and this form of plaster 
is supplied without a thought that there 
may be another kind. 

The adhesive plaster masses of the 
Pharmacopeia are composed for the 
most part of resins, lead and diachylon 
plaster, with the addition of waxes, etc. 
Plasters of this character are not ad- 
hesive at the temperature of the body 
and require the use of artificial heat and 
other expedients to render them adhe- 
sive. 

Adhesive plaster made with a rubber 
mass, as now produced, will adhere at 
all degrees of temperature. The evolu- 
tion in the art of plaster-making has 
produced a bland, non-irritating adhe- 
sive plaster, and, indeed, aseptic adhe- 
sive plaster has been made possible. 
This evolution has re-enthroned and 
made adhesive plaster an important ad- 
junct in present-day surgery and therapy. 

In the technique of surgery, adhesive 
plaster plays an important part — it is 
at once a cover, a dressing, a protective, 
a suture, an absorbent, and an article of 
unlimited application. 

The advance of surgery and the in- 
crease of operative procedure have in- 
creased the consumption of the modern 
india-rubber base adhesive plaster. It 
is also worthy of note that in the trend 
of modern treatment adhesive plaster 
has been accorded a high place in 
therapy. 



— Synol Soap is made for doctors. 



Red Cross Notes 



WOUND CLOSURE 

The MEthod of Wound Clotute Wkh Michd 
Opt and Z O Plula Vttd bjr the Ule 
Dr. Robot H. M. DawbuD of New Yotk. 

For some time before his death Dr. 
Robert H. M. Dawbarn was using, ex- 
perimentally, in his work in the City 
Hospital of New York and in other in- 
stitutions, a method of wound closure 




which was described at some length in 
Red Cross Notes No. 4, Series VII. As 
that issue has become exhausted, the sa- 
lient points of the method are here re- 
peated hy request. 

Dr. Dawbarn used as a method of 
wound closing Michel clips and Z O 
Adhesive Plaster, alternately applied. 
He used this method o£ wound closure 
for every conceivable operation, with 
signal success and satisfactory cosmetic 

For suturing the subcutaneous tissues 
the skin .edges are closely proximated, 
with small forceps, and every inch along 
the line of incision a Michel clamp is 
attached. Between each clamp the skin 



Applies 



e drnai 



is drawn together by Z O adhesive 
strips, which are sterilized over an al- 
cohol flame. This gives a minimum of 
adhesive surface directly over the 
wound, with a maximum of traction on 
the skin. The Michel clamps are re- 
moved after twenty-four hours, and 
the Z O strips after ten days. 

The strips of Z Adhesive are made 
by taking a large strip of Z O Adhe- 
sive Plaster, from 3j-i to 5 inches wide, 
laying it on a glass plate, adhesive face 
downward. Over this, in the center, a 
smaller reinforcing strip, from Ij^ to 
lyi inches wide, is laid for the purpose 
of giving additional strength. The pat- 
tern of the strips is laid out in lead pen- 
cil and then cut out. 

The pattern for cutting the strips is 
shown in the accompanying cut. 

Before applying the strip of adhesive 
plaster. Dr. Dawbarn sterilized the ad- 
hesive surface, over an alcohol flame, 
at the point where the plaster was to 
cover the point. 

Dr. Dawbarn demonstrated that this 
method of wound closure preserves the 
integrity of the skin, prevents stitch ab- 
scess, does away with the painful re- 
moval of stitches and leaves a very 



—Red Cross Cotton is standard. 



174 



Red Cross Notes 



WHAT IS ADHESIVE PLASTER? 

Some confusion has existed from the 
use, without a qualifying designation, of 
the general term "Adhesive plaster." 
According to the U. S. Pharmacopeia 
(8th revision) "Adhesive plaster" is a 
coml)ination of lead plaster and petro- 
latum, with an insignificant percentage 
of india-rubber. In the British Phar- 
macopeia "Adhesive plaster" is directed 
to be made of lead plaster, resin and 
soap. The "Adhesive plaster" of the 
National Formulary is composed of lead 
plaster, resin and yellow wax. "Maw's 
Adhesive Plaster" and "De La Cour's 
Adhesive Plaster" are of the last type. 

The official lead base plaster is not 
adhesive at the temperature of the body, 
and must be heated in order to adhere. 

Rubber adhesive plaster is free from 
tlie objections to resin plaster, and is 
ready for application without any prepa- 
ration. These advantages have led sur- 
geons of the present day to discard al- 
most entirely the ofHcial plaster from 
their armamentarium, and now when 
adhesive plaster is called for the rubber 
adhesive is supplied without a thought 
that there may be another kind. 

The adhesive plasters of Johnson & 
Johnson will be found to fulfill every 
requirement. They are adhesive at all 
degrees of atmospheric temperature ; 
they retain their adhesiveness for a long 
time under proper precautions ; they are 
prepared in such a variety of forms that 
every desirable indication may be met ; 
finally, as a matter of no small import- 
ance, they are not affected by moisture. 
To preserve these qualities adhesive 
plaster should be handled with due pre- 
caution. Any adhesive plaster mass that 
is continuously exposed to the influence 
of the atmosphere will sooner or later 
deteriorate. In order to prevent this 
the unused plaster must be carefully re- 
rolled, if it comes in spools, and as an 



extra precaution a sheet of tin foil may 
be used to cover the entire roll of 
plaster. 

The spools of Johnson & Johnson Ad- 
hesive Plaster are packed in a carton 
which, in a measure, prevents deteriora- 
tion. The large sheets which are sup- 
plied in boxes should be carefully re- 
turned to their containers as soon as 
practical after use, and it is best to keep 
them in some place in which they will 
not be subject to wide variations of tem- 
perature. 

PHYSICIANS AND FIRST AID 

In the literature on the subject of 
first aid issued by Johnson & Johnson, 
four things are emphasized — the import- 
ance of avoiding manipulation and 
handling of an injured part, the imme- 
diate application of a surgically clean 
covering, the placing of the injured per- 
son in a position of comfort and, above 
all, the prompt summoning of a physi- 
cian. 

Johnson & Johnson have devised a 
system of first aid appliances that is 
scientifically correct and based upon the 
highest principles of humanity. The 
system has received the special endorse- 
ment of thousands of railroad, mining 
and factory surgeons, as well as those 
connected with the fire, police and mu- 
nicipal departments. 

This system is fully described in 
Catalog No. 110. The various cabinets, 
cases and outfits prepared by Johnson & 
Johnson are illustrated in colors. A 
copy will be sent free to any physician 
or nurse on request. Address Johnson & 
Johnson, New Brunswick, N. J. 



— When a rubber adhesive dressing is 
to be made with strips over an unequal 
surface, it is a general rule that the 
narrower it is practical to make the 
strips the neater and closer fitting will 
be the dressing. 



Red Cross Notes 
Clinical Uses for Adhesive Plaster 



Fig. 2 
. John B. Newcomb's mi 



Fig. ?— Half figure of eigl 
game in axillary told. 

Fig. 8— Figure of eight adl 



'" Red Crow 

TTiEATMENT OF BURNS 

Di. Chvla A. P>rk<T DoKntw* How H< 
TfCMi Bun WouKfa wkh Adhenve Snip* 
■ad I^ennl* Exubcmti C 



Dr. Charles A. Parker, of Chicago, in 
the Journal o( the American Medical 
Association. July 3. 1915, speaks of the 
need (or quick healing in order to avoid 
great deformity and scar tissue which 
usually follows extensive Imrns. In 
burns involving the whole thickness of 
the skin the throwing off of the slough, 
which must take place before epidermid- 
alization occurs, may take two or three 
weeks. When the slough is removed he 
treats the wound with adhesive strips in 
the following manner : 

After separation of the slough, rib- 
l)ons of adhesive plaster from 1 to \]4 
inches wide and long enough to encircle 
the limb and lap slightly were placed 
around the limb from ankle to perineum, 
leaving no granulations exposed. To be 
more explicit, the first hand was put 
around the ankle partly on good skin 
and partly on the burn, and the ends 
overlapped an inch or so. The next 
•lightly overlapped the upper bor- 
t enough to keep 



der of the firs 
it from slipping o 



the 



rried : 









ind the limb like the 
■. The third followed the sec- 
1 similar manner and so on till 
the area was entirely covered and had 
enough stability to stay in place and 
serve its function in keeping in the se- 
rum and preventing cells dying from 
dryness. Over this were placed several 
layers of gauze to take up the secretion 
that worked out through between the 
strips at various places, although no ar- 
rangement was made for drainage. At 
first narrow strips were left open for 
drainage ; but the granulations quickly 
occupied these areas, became exuber- 
ant and bled, and otherwise interfered 



Mclhad 



of appl/ini 



adhea 






with the healing; so the spaces wert 
dispensed with entirely, with a much 
smoother course to the healing. Every 
day the gauze was changed as it be- 
came soiled. Twice a week— on my vis- 
iting days — the adhesive plaster *a) 
changed. This was easily i 
by getting the blunt point 
under it at one end iff the 
ting across all strips from 
to the top or the top to th 
the leg, when the plaster 
from the leg as it was not 
the moist, or granulating st 
This adhesive dressing pi 
berant granulations and, as 
lows a continuous growth o 
from the margins." This 
effect is an important one, as anyont 
who has had to control this condition 
knows. It does not adhere to the ex- 
posed surface, which is moist ; it can 
be removed with little injury to new tis- 
sues, lileeding rarely occurring. It pre- 
vents tissues growing into the game 



Red Cross Notes 

Clinical Uses for Adhesive PlasSer 



g. 2— BeLnforced slrapping for snr-in of wrist. F[rst layer consi! 
g, 3 — Tbe reinforced straps arc applied in a half ficure of eis1>t, < 



round tbe tbumb over tbe band to tbe si 



Melbod of applying gauie bandages t 

Fig. 5— Fix a roller bandage with tbree turns at the « 

Wy three adhesive strips !^ inch wide and lo extend on. 

Fig. 6— Fasten gauic to piece of Z O Adhesive Plasi 



178 



Red Cross Notes 



ADHESIVES IN THERAPY 



From the Practkioiier't Standpobt, E>r. PoweU 
Refen to Many Diteatet That Are Invariably 
Benefited by Appropriate Adhesive Strappings. 

[Abstract of paper by C. H. Powellp A. M., 

M.D.j 

The profession is now awake to the 
fact that disuse of many of the older 
remedies has been ill-advised. It has 
]>cen commented upon that blood-letting 
is now neglected in disease when its ap- 
parent utility in years past was para- 
mount to every other consideration ; gel- 
semium is often relied upon to produce 
results which bleeding would more 
surely control, and the life of the pa- 
tient be spared in certain full-blooded 
subjects attacked with pneumonia. 

Blood-letting is often also withheld 
from women the subjects of amenor- 
rhoea, who monthly experience violent 
paroxysms of pain and hystero-neurosis, 
who could be most promptly relieved by 
the extraction of blood. The same may 
be said of the other conditions referred 
to. 

Prior to the advent of Listerism and 
aseptic surgery, adhesive plasters were 
in very common use as remedial agents, 
])ut in the exhilarating onward rush of 
the wonderful results achieved by the 
devotees of the new school with its far- 
reaching benefits to mankind, the ten- 
dency arose to eliminate whatever was 
deemed a possible carrier of germ life, 
and inasmuch as the adhesive properties 
of a plaster were believed to harbor 
possible hostile bacteria these useful 
agents fell into a most unmerited disuse. 
During the period of evolution, how- 
ever, adhesive plasters, unlike many 
other remedies, were appropriately re- 
turned to the high place in therapy their 
excellence entitled them to occupy, and 
at the present day there is no physician 
or surgeon whose satchel does not con- 
tain adhesive plaster of some make or 



size. There are many conditions in 
which the surgeon relies upon adhesive 
plaster, and I will refer generally to 
corns, bunions, swellings, mammitis, 
mammary abscess, inflamed joints, syno- 
vitis, ecchymosis, varicose veins, ulcers 
(in connection with antiseptics), frost 
bites, adenoids, boils, carbuncles, and 
dozens of conditions unnecessary to 
mention. 

From a surgical standpoint the utility 
of adhesive plaster is generally recog- 
nized and it is universally employed, but 
from the standpoint of the general prac- 
titioner its advantages are often lost 
sight of, and reliance placed upon drugs 
that although in the main useful would 
often prove doubly so with the applica- 
tion to the affected part of some form of 
adhesive strapping. 

From the practitioner's standpoint I 
wish to refer to the following diseases 
that are invariably benefited by appro- 
priate adhesive strapping : Orchitis, epi- 
didymitis, pulmonary, hepatic, renal and 
throat diseases, mastitis, inflamed joints 
from gout or rheumatism, pleural in- 
volvement, hiccough, neuralgia, mouth 
breathing, lumbago, gastroptosis, enter- 
optosis, floating kidney, excessive sweat- 
ing, tuberculosis, and in a long line of 
dermatological affections, as acne, co- 
medones, eczemas, tinea circinata, lupus 
erythematosus, etc. 



— In using Adhesive Plasters, in order 
to secure and maintain the greatest 
possible degree of adhesiveness, it is im- 
perative to see that the skin is per- 
fectly dry, free from greasy substances 
and from any kind of dusting powder. 



— For three thousand years cotton has 
been used for covering wounds, but 
somewhere in the beginning of antisep- 
sis cotton fibers were made absorbent— 
an improvement that will remain until 
the end of time. 



Red Cross Notes 

Clinical Uses for Adhesive Plaster 



Fig. 1— Sayre's rireasmg for fracture of clavicle.. Two straps of adhesive plasi 



Fig. S Fig. 6 Fig. 7 Fig. 8 

Fig. S— Z O Adliesiye Plaster drtssing for fracture of rihs. Partial, stranping beginiiin, 

Fig. 6— Complete encircling adhesive plaster dressing. 
Fig. 7— Spiral dressing. 



'■■' Red Cro«s Notes 

THE KEMU\AL <jF WKIXKLES 



r ha 



in.l f..r 



■ I'la- 



I.>i1el a 



w.rv. AcJir-s u;M.n the tuuge^lion of a 
ver>- famous surycn. the l-eauly doc- 
tDf* have priicUimiil ihe tact that the 
u-e "1 arlhesive pla-HT i- nne sure m.xle 
f..r Ihi' rcm..val i.i wrinkle- an-i for ihc 



clearing an<l 1 
plexion. 



lil'yiiig of the i 



The technique of this use is very 
simple. Before retiring, the wrinkled 
skill is drawn tense with ihe first and 
second fingers of ihe left hand, while 



aiigles of Ihc eye. Iietween the eyes, 
The plaster is allowed to remain i 
ihe following morning, 

L'niess the wrinkle to be obliterate 
a very deep one, it is never necessary 
10 apply more than one layer of the 
plaMer at a lime. To remove the plas- 
ter from the face daub lightly with a 
I)iece of cotton dipped in grain alcohol, 

.\CTION' OF RADIUM RAYS 

The emanations of radium paralyze 
many molds, stop the growth of the 
mycelium and prevent the germination 
of spores. They are not killed, but are 
in a latent state, and will germinate 
when replaced under normal condi ' 
The ferments or enzymes in mo! 
stances arc rapidly destroyed by n 
emanations. Emulsin, tyros in, p 
pancreatin and ptyalin quickly lose 
activity under the action of the ray 
rciuiin is resistant. 

The radium emanations produci 
droKCU peroxide ; in water the fen 
, but more active, i 



the plaster 


n narrow strips is applied 


over the 


urface parallel with the 


wrinkles. 


t is immaterial whether a 


wide or nar 


ow strip is used except for 


■enience 


ill treating wrinkles at Ihe 



—The 125 pages of the Pliysii 
Descriptive Catalog contain terse 
scriptions and accurate illustratior 
the principal J&J products. Send 



Red Cross Notes 

Clinical Uses for Adhesive Plaster 



Pig. 


3— aipapping 


Fig. 


6— Supportive 


brwl*" 


'—Strapping 


Fig. 


8— Campr«ssi( 



183 



Red Cross Notes 



NEW SUTURES 

To meet the demand for certain spe- 
cial forms of sutures, Johnson & John- 
son have made additions to their list of 
ligatures, as noted below. The sutures 
noted in this list are on sale at drug 
stores and physicians' supply houses. 
The reports received from operators who 
are using them are to the effect that they 
are timely, satisfactory and very con- 
venient, obviating the necessity of the 
surgeon attempting to prepare these 
forms of sutures for himself. These 
sutures are of such a nature that sam- 
ples cannot be supplied. 

BLOOD-VESSEL SUTURES 

Prepared according to directions of 
Dr. B. M. Bernheim, Baltimore, Md., 
for suturing blood-vessels. 

Very fine black silk in a very fine, 
straight, round needle, put up in and 
sterilized in liquid vaseline in tubes. 

Packed three tubes in a box. 

INTESTINAL SUTURES 

A straight, fine needle threaded with 
black silk in such a way that there is 
no doubling of the silk through the eye 
of the needle. The silk is twisted after 
threading through the eye. One yard 
of silk in each tube. 

Each tube packed in an individual box. 

CIRCUMCISION SUTURES 

A regular full-curved No. 14 needle 
threaded with 30 inches of No. plain 
catgut put up in a tube. 

Each tube packed in an individual box 
and one dozen of these in an outside 
box. 

OBSTETRICAL SUTURES 

A regular full-curved No. 4 needle 
threaded with ^ inches of No. 3 extra- 
hard chromic catgut put up in a tube. 
Each tube packed in an individual box. 



NEW SYNOL SOAP BOTTLE 

The glass container of Synol Soap 
has been improved by making four finger 
depressions on each side of the bottle. 
This change enables the user to obtain 




a firm grip upon the bottle, even with 
wet and soapy hands, and removes any 
possibility of the bottle slipping from 
his grasp. The fingers naturally fit into 
the grooved spaces. This improvement 
to the sprinkler top bottle, we believe, 
makes a perfect container. 



— An animal lives five times as long 
as it takes to complete development of 
its skeleton. 



— Whenever possible, adhesive plaster 
dressings should be covered with a neat 
gauze bandage. This helps to retain 
the dressing in position when first ap- 
plied; it keeps it neat and clean, in- 
creases its adhesiveness and prevents 
it sticking to clothing or bed linen. 



Red Cross Notes 

Clinical Uses for Adhesive Plaster 



iodine and belladonna has been found application should be found favorable, 

useful, Johnson & Johnson have pre- Johnson & Johnson will take into eon- 

pared a small amount of Iodine and sideration ihe advisability of placing the 

Belladonna Plasters. These plasters plaster upon the market. At present 

contain the U. S. P. amount of bella- o"'y samples can be obtained direct 

donna compound with about S per cent from the manufacturers. 

of iodine. They have not been placed 

upon the market and may not be. but as —The doctor's soap — Sjnol. 



184 



Red Cross Notes 



HOW TO USE ADHESIVES 



Suggettioiu As to Mamtamiog tWe Giealcft Potii- 
ble Depee of A(lkefivenc« and (or Appl3rmg 
and Removing the Adhenve Plaster DreMing. 

In using adhesive plasters, in order to 
secure and maintain the greatest possi- 
l)Ie degree of adhesiveness, it is impera- 
tive to see that the skin is perfectly dry, 
free from greasy sut)stances or from 
any sort of dusting powder. 

Before the plaster is applied to a hairy 
part, the hair should ])e carefully shaved 
off. If the hairy part to be covered is 
of limited extent, while long strips of 
plaster are to be used, that part may be 
covered with gauze where the plaster 
passes over it. 

If a rubber adhesive dressing is to be 
made with strips over an unequal sur- 
face, it is a general rule that the nar- 
rower it is practicable to make the 
strips the neater and closer fitting will 
be the dressing. 

In unrolling and cutting strips from a 
spool, before applying, it will often be 
found that some are a little too long, 
while others may be too short, resulting 
in a certain amount of waste. 

It will often prove very convenient 
and economical to pull a few inches off 
the spool, and to apply this free end 
to the surface to l)e covered, keeping it 
in place with one hand while the spool 
is gradually unwound to the desired 
length with the other. The plaster can 
then be cut off at the exact length de- 
sired, and the process repeated. This 
will save plaster and obviate any an- 
noyance caused by the tendency of long 
ends to catch and stick to everything 
around. 

In using large strips from the sheets 
of plaster, as, for instance, for dressing 
broken ribs, it is advantageous at first 
only partially to remove the protecting 
cloth, applying first the free end and 



then removing the cloth gradually as it 
becomes necessary. This will really save 
a good deal of annoyance. 

In applying adhesive plaster to an ex- 
tremity, it must be remembered that the 
part will necessarily be constricted to 
some extent. This must be guarded 
against by bandaging the fingers from 
tips upwards, by maintaining the limb 
in an elevated position, or by dividing 
the dressing in a line parallel with the 
long axis of the limb. 

Whenever it is possible, adhesive 
plaster dressings should be covered by 
a neat gauze bandage. This helps to 
retain the plaster in position when first 
applied, keeps it neat and clean, increases 
its adhesiveness, and prevents any stick- 
ing to clothing or bed linen. 

The removal of adhesive plaster is 
usually accomplished by a rapid motion. 
Ether, gasoline or benzine are used to 
remove particles adhering to the hair. 
Adhesive plaster may be removed easily 
and painlessly with the simple procedure 
of saturating a sponge or dab of ab- 
sorbent cotton with alcohol, then apply- 
ing the alcohol between the loosened 
edge of plaster and the skin. 



IN THE WAKE OF THE WAR IN 
HUNGARY 

Dr. Charles MacDonald, who worked 
under the Marine and Red Cross au- 
thorities in Hungary, has made an in- 
teresting report, in the course of which 
he describes the labors and duties of the 
American surgeons and nurses and pays 
a high tribute to their ability and zeal. 
He states that a complete system was 
established covering the care of the 
sick and wounded, which enabled them 
to work rapidly and efficiently. He 
states that the work was often offensive 
in many ways — cases infected, dirty and 
covered with vermin were in abundance 



Red Cross Notes 

Clinical Uses for Adhesive Plaster 



lian bdF bthind, just as we would applv a drsssmg for fracture 
bovf ih( crest of the ilium and extend it well up on the ribs, 



and with the usual disease of the soldier 
in addition to actual wounds. The fol- 
lowing is extracted from his report : 

"The usual diseases which follow 
armies are frequent. Cholera, typhus, 
tetanus, typhoid fever, dysentery and 
Ihe various gastroenteric conditions, tu- 
berculosis, mental and nervous diseases 
are numerous and the conditions as to 
cleanliness are poor. 

"All wounds are highly interesting, 
shrapnel leading in frequence. The 
rifle ball of the modern war is humane 
and rarely fatal. There are few sabre 
cuts and bayonet wounds ; fractures of 
all kinds are observed, many of them 
of the compound variety. All open 
wounds are infected with gas or gan- 
grene infection; the mortality in these 
cases is very high. 

"Typhus will follow the armies and 
cause great havoc as long as the louse 
has the freedom of traffic. Cleanliness 
will do much to suppress typhus. 

"Vermin and cold in winter cause the 
greatest suffering, while in summer, lice 
and heat are the largest factors. 

"The question of the transportation 



of the wounded is one of great interest 
and importance. 

"The first dressing is extremely im- 
portant and the man himself or his 
comrades should know how to apply it. 
It means the saving of life. Thousands 
of men come back from the lines with 
very slight wounds. They should be 
kept at the front to avoid congested 
traffic. They can be treated success- 
fully and kept en the line if told to do 
so. It is very important to have the 
men care for each other on the firing 
line, as surgeons and hospital corps men 
should not be sacrificed at the front as 
they have been in Europe. Hospital 
and first aid methods should lie prac- 
ticed on a large scale. Feeding and rest 
quickly work wonders with sick and 
wounded soldiers. 

"In treating wounds the free use of 
iodine, free drainage, comfortable dress- 
ings, light splints and mechanical ap- 
paratus for fractures produce fine re- 
sults. The cardinal points to be con- 
sidered are ; Receiving rooms, baths, 
disinfection and care of clothing. Ster- 
ile technique in these cases means much 
lost time." 



Red Cross Notes 



THE CHIEF HAS FALLEN 
Dr. John B. Murphy, of Chicago, one 
of the leaders among the American sur- 
geons and known in his professioii 
throughout the entire world, died sud- 
denly at Chicago on Auguic U, 1916. 

In the language of Dr. Charles H. 
Mayo, President of the American Medi- 
cal Association, "The medical world has 



Tht 1 



■ Dr. Murphy. 



sustained a great loss in the passing of 
Dr. Murphy. In him were combined in- 
dustry and inventive genius, with a 
surpassing amount of general informa- 
tion. He possessed that rare faculty 
of stimulating thought as well as of 
imparting knowledge, and he was the 
greatest surgical teacher of his time. 
He will live in history as one of the 
great leaders of modern medicine." 

He was world renowned, a pathfinder, 
an experimenter in many departments 
of surgery. No man living or of the 
recent past has contriliuted more to his 
science than Dr, Murphy. He died a 
-^"rtvr to his professional he result of 



eaders of thes 



pages i 



doubtedly most familiar with him 
through the now celebrated "Murphj 
Button" and his collaboration in i 
nection with the Johnson & Johnion 
Laboratories in producing "Murphy's 
Adhesive Dam." 

As staled by one of his spiritual ad- 
visers, "The world has lost one of its 
greatest surgeons and one of its most 
useful and helpful men." 

DOSAGE OF BACTERINS 
The size of a dose of a given bac- 
terin, like that of a drug, depends upon 
a number of factors, such as aige, sex, 
body-weight, idiosyncraey, and so on, 
says W. C. Wolverton. M. D„ in Clm- 
cat Medicine. But, in general, the adult 
dosage of the bacterins in common use 
by me is about as follows : 
Staphylococcus pyogenes albus— 100 mil- 
lions to 1000 millions. 
Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus— 100 

millions to 1000 millions. 
Streptococcus pyogenes — 30 millions to 

100 millions. 
Streptococcus erysipelatis — 50 millions 

(daily). 
Streptococcus virians and s. rheum ati- 

cus — SO millions to 500 millions, 
Pneumococcus — 20 millions to 100 mil- 

Gonococcus — 100 millions to 1000 mil- 

Micrococcus catarrhalis — 25 millions to 

100 millions. 
Bacillus coli communis (colon-bacillus) 

—20 millions to 200 millions. 
Bacillus typhosus (typhoid -bacillus) 

(immunizing)— 500 millions to 1000 

millions. 
Bacillus typhosus (typhoid -bacillus) 

(therapeutic)— 100 millions to 500 mil- 

Bacillu's influenzae— 50 millions to 200 

Bacillus pertusis (Bordet's bacillus)— 

50 millions to 500 millions. 
Bacillus of acne— 10 millions to 100 mil- 
Bacillus of Friedlander— 7S millions to 

300 millions. 
Meningococcus (immunizing) — 500 mil- 
lions to 1000 millions. 
Bacillus tuberculosis (non-virulent)— 
100 millions to 1000 millions. 



Red Cross Notes 



18? 



FOR EXPECTANT MOTHERS 
It IS of advantage for physicians with 
considerable obstetrical practice to sup- 
ply their patients with printed instruc- 
tions in plain language concerning the 
diet, dress, rest, exercise, baths and 
other matters connected with the hy- 
giene of pregnancy. 
To supply this need, Johnson & John- 



HYdENE IN 

MATERNITY 



SiigKWtions to mothcra gstberad from 
tlM ez|Nri*M«of cmiMBtautlHrMM. 



bR* 



son have published "Hygiene in Ma- 
ternity," a 48-page booklet. Compiled 
from the chief authorities, it contains all 
of the information which the physician 
would wish his patient to have. 

"Hygiene in Maternity" is in no way 
intended to supersede the advice of the 
physician. It forms a welcome and 
necessary adjunct to his services. It 
is quite natural, therefore, that so many 
physicians have secured copies of this 
book — which is sent for the asking — and 
have given copies of it to all expectant 
mothers on their list. 

One or more copies of this book will 
be sent, postpaid, on request, to any 
physician. Address Johnson & John- 
son, New Brunswick, N. J. 



BORALUM GAUZE 

Johnson & Johnson announce the 
preparation of a new form of antisep- 
tic gauze, prepared by impregnating ab- 
sorbent gauze with a specially prepared 
solution of boroglyceride and aluminum 
acetate. 

This gauze has the well-known anti- 
septic properties of boroglyceride and 
aluminum acetate, and will undoubt- 
edly find a large variety of uses, both 
in surgical and in medical practice. 

Boralum Gauze will act as a mild 
astringent, exsiccant and hemostatic. A 
dressing of this character has been 
largely used as an application to fresh 
wounds, especially lacerated wounds; 
as a dressing for infected wounds, for 
burns, for old sores, ulcers, especially 
for bed sores, and as an absorbent and 
deodorant for purulent discharges. A 
dressing of this character has also been 
found useful as an application in in- 
flamed conditions, as well as in diseases 
of the skin. 

Boralum Gauze will undoubtedly be 
found useful as an excellent first aid 
dressing, especially adapted for use by 
the laity. The gauze may be applied 
dry. When dipped in water it forms 
an efficient substitute for the well-known 
acetate of lead solution, with the added 
value of boroglyceride. 

Boralum Gauze is put in the follow- 
ing forms: 

Yard and Five- Yard Rolls — in card- 
board containers. 

One- Yard and Five- Yard — glass jars 
— Linton. 



— Cotton fiber requires special selec- 
tion and treatment to render it suitable 
for surgical use. It is evident that the 
so-called absorbent cotton from cotton 
mills is prepared without any regard or 
knowledge of the requirements of mod- 
ern surgery. 



188 



Red Cross Notes 




PERFORATED ADHESIVE 
Dr. George G. Shoemaker, of Car- 
negie, Pa., makes the following sugges- 
tion: 

"In my private practice and as attend- 
ing surgeon to the Out Patient Depart- 
ment of the Pittsburgh Homeopathic 
Hospital. I have a great many cases of 
fractured ribs, fractured clavicles, etc., 
to treat. 

"Invariably these cases develop a der- 
matitis due to the adhesive, although I 
always change same at least every seven 
days. 

"I have proven to my own satisfac- 
tion that a perforated adhesive is just 
as reliable and does away with the der- 
matitis, which is very annoying to the 
patient. 

"If you think this suggestion of any 
value you are welcome to it, and I know 
if you will put a perforated adhesive on 
the market it will be welcomed by the 
physicians throughout the country." 

GRENFELL ASSOCIATION 
The International Grenfell Associa- 
tion writes from its registered office, 
King George the Fifth Seamen's Insti- 
tute. St. John's, Newfoundland: 
Messrs. Johnson & Johnson, 

New Brunswick, N. J., U. S. A. 
Gentlemen : — We acknowledge with 
thanks receipt of ten copies of — 
Hygiene in Maternity, 
Contagious Disease Bulletins, 
Handbook of Ligatures, 
Adhesive Plaster in Modern Surgery, 
which we have sent to the medical offi- 
cers in charge of our hospital stations. 

Faithfully yours, 
The International Grenfell Ass'n. 



THE DOCTOR'S BEARD 

The beard of a doctor goes wherever 
there is disease. However, we say 
nothing about it, because we do not 



want to hurt any good doctor's feelings. 
If it were not for that, we should ad- 
vocate a law compelling all doctors to 
be smooth shaven, or at least to stop 
after each visit to a patient and have 
their beards washed with a mild solu- 
tion of carbolic acid and alcohol. 

We observe that in the hospitals doc- 
tors compel female nurses to wear nice 
little caps to cover up their hair— this is 
to keep the germs from spreading. If it 
were not for our great respect for doc- 
tors, we should advocate a law com- 
pelling them to wear nice little caps on 
their beards in active service, unless 
they consented to shave or to disinfect 
with carbolic acid. — New York Amer- 
ican. 



SATISFACTION 

"I thank you for your response to my 
recent inquiry regarding aseptic adhe- 
sive plaster and for your liberal sam- 
ples," writes Dr. Charles A. Parker, of 
7 West Madison Street, Chicago. "I 
suspected what you said about your 
regular rolls was the case, that they 
were practically free from wound-in- 
fecting organisms and therefore safe 
for the use to which I put them. How- 
ever, it is a satisfaction to know of the 
strictly aseptic strips to satisfy the most 
scrupulous." 



THANK YOU 



"I appreciate your Red Cross Notes 
and gain many valued points from it. 
It is my habit to specify J & J on pre- 
scriptions for articles such as you 
make." — Dr. John M. Lee, Indianapolis, 
Ind. 

"The Red Cross Notes of Johnson & 
Johnson is the one piece of advertising 
literature that comes to my office that 
I always have time to read. I read it 
with real pleasure and it is time both 
pleasantly and profitably spent."— Dr. 
Forest A. Carpentfr, S<^;itesville, N. C 



Red Cross Notes 



189 



BUYING FOR HOSPITALS 

Economical management of hospitals 
does not necessarily mean the buying of 
cheap things for their maintenance. Five 
or six years ago a hospital was built 
by a board of trustees composed of 
business men. They took the stand 
that hospitals were costing entirely too 
much, and contended that a splendid 
hospital could be built for twenty cents 
per cubic foot, which was the cost of a 
good factory building which the head 
of the board had recently completed. 

A good deal of ornamentation was 
put on the front of the building, and 
the "show places" were accentuated in 
the architecture, but the hospital was 
completed at a remarkably low price. 
The board of trustees were held up as 
examples of what a disinterested group 
of successful business men could do by 
using business judgment. 

Before two years were past the hos- 
pital looked fifteen years old, and re- 
pairs, alterations and renewals were 
monthly features in the balance sheet. 
To-day the plumbing has become all but 
useless; the veneer is bulged and split 
on nearly every door; the floors are a 
disgrace and, of course, the paint all 
over the house was gone long ago and 
replaced by the same board with equally 
cheap stuff which, in its turn, has been 
washed and worn off. 

If that board of "business men" had 
put in good material in the first place, 
their hospital would have run along 
practically without repairs or renewals 
for several years, and for ten or fifteen 
years the upkeep should have been neg- 
ligible. 

Then in regard to medical and sur- 
gical supplies and foods: poor instru- 
ments, badly made; cheap syringes, 
water bottles and rubber goods; shop- 
worn, vulcanized rubber gloves; large 
mesh, lightweight gauze ; short fiber cot- 
ton poorly absorbent; there is enough 
waste on all these commodities to more 
than pay for good materials — to say 
nothing about the inconveniences due to 
accidents in the use of poor stuff. 

So, taking the whole problem, and 
from any viewpoint, there is no money 
to be made buying cheap products, and 
everything to be gained by buying the 
best of its kind. — Selected. 



AN OLD-TIME REMEDY 

Dr. A. L. Gardner, of Painesville, 
Ohio, states that he has used success- 
fully what he terms "an old-fashioned 
remedy" in cases of open wounds and 
even in traumatic tetanus, in the lat- 
ter sometimes after convulsions had set 
in. The method of use is to put the 
soap down to the bottom of the wound 
and immediately apply a hot poultice. 

He states that relief will be experi- 
enced in an hour and all symptoms will 
rapidly disappear. The doctor states 
that he has used this invariably during 
his professional life of forty-seven years 
and always with satisfactory results. 

One of the difficulties which he ex- 
periences is to obtain the old-fashioned 
home-made soft-soap, but it is sug- 
gested that the modern green soap will 
perhaps fill the bill. 



CANT WORK WITHOUT SYNOL 

"I feel I cannot work without Synol 
Soap, having used it faithfully in pub- 
lic and private practice for the past fif- 
teen years," writes Mrs. Ella C. Gleason, 
registered nurse, of 102 Lincoln Street, 
Flushing, N. Y. "I started using it 
while doing Board of Health work, vis- 
iting contagious diseases. I never car- 
ried any of the contagious diseases into 
my own home, because I always used 
plenty of Synol Soap after handling 
these cases. I am still using it for sur- 
gical work, among the sick and poor 
when doing my rounds as district nurse, 
and advise its use among intelligent 
patients." 



A GREAT ASSISTANCE 

Dr. Anna T. Dunn Roe, State Medi- 
cal Examiner of the Ladies* Auxiliary, 
Ancient Order Hibernians in America, 
of Detroit, Michigan, writes : 

"I have a small paper-covered book, 
"Hygiene in Maternity," which was pub- 
lished by you. I consider it of great 
assistance to nurses and I myself have 
considered it quite helpful to me in ob- 
stetric cases. I lecture to a class of 
nurses at Providence Hospital, Detroit, 
Mich. It numbers fourteen. They will 
graduate this year. My subject is Ob- 
stetrics." 



— Synol Soap sterilizes the skin. 



'^° Red Cross Notes 

Forms of Adhesive Plaster 

Made by Johnson & Johnson 

Surgeon's Rubber Adhesive Plaster 

(Yellow Mass) 

This is the rubber adhesive plaster as originally made by Johnson & Johnson. 
This plaster is sometimes designated as India-rubber Plaster or Surgeon's Rubber 
Adhesive Plaster, but it has to a great extent been supplanted by our Z O Adhesive 
Plaster descril)ed below. 

On Strong Cotton Cloth 

1 Yard Rolls, 7 in. wide Plain or porous 

5 Yard Rolls, 7 in. wide Plain or porous 

5 Yard Rolls, 12 in. wide Plain only 

On Moleskin 

1 Yard Rolls, 7 in. wide Plain only 

5 Yard Rolls, 7 in. wide Plain only 

On Spools (Packed in Cartons) Plain Only 

Five Yards Long in following widths: J/2, 1, Ij/^, 2, 25^, 3 in. 

Ten Yards Long in following widths: j^, J/^, 1, 154, 2, 2j4, 3, 4 in. 

Z Adhesive Plaster 

(White Mass) 

Z O Adhesive Plaster represents a progressive step in the art of plaster making. 
All foreign ahd irritating substances are removed by careful grinding and wash- 
ing, by neutralizing the acids and by evaporating the turpentine and volatile prod- 
ucts. Further operations of preparing and spreading the mass are performed at 
the lowest possil)le temperature, as great danger accompanies the use of heat. 
These factors determine the adhesiveness and efficiency of the plaster as a surgical 
appliance. 

In modern surgery the Z O Adhesive Plaster finds many uses, and on account 
of its cleanliness, convenience and freedom from irritating qualities, has been pro- 
nounced by all who have tried it to be most suitable of all adhesive plasters for 
general surgical purposes. 

On J&J Improved Face Cloth 

1 Yard Rolls, 7 in. wide Plain or porous 

5 Yard Rolls, 7 in. wide Plain or porous 

5 Yard Rolls, 12 in. wide Plain only 

On J&J Spools, Plain Only 

2y2 Yards, ^, 1, VA in. wide. 

5 Yards, ^, 1, 1^, 2, 2J^, 3, 4 in. wide. 

10 Yards, ^, ^, 1, 1^, 2, 2^, 3, 4 in. wide. 

Z Aseptic Adhesive Strips 

As the ordinary forms of adhesive plaster are liable to infection in handling, 
the Z O Aseptic Strips are cut into suitable widths, enclosed in double envelopes, 
sterilized within the envelopes and sealed to prevent infection. 

10 in. long, ^ in. wide 12 strips in each envelope 

10 in. long, 1/2 in. wide 8 strips in each envelope 

10 in. long, 1 in. wide 4 strips in each envelope 



Red Cross Notes ''' 

Rose's Adhesive Plaster and Adhesive Belt 

On Moleskin, Not Porous 

These two forms of plaster were made to meet the requirements of Dr. Achilles 
Rose, as outlined in his work "Atonia Gastrica," etc. 

Sizes of Adhesive Plaster Sizes of Adhesive Belt 
1-Yard Rolls, 7 in. wide Large 

5- Yard Rolls, 7 in. wide Medium 

5- Yard Rolls, 12 in. wide Small 

Z O Chiropodist Plaster 

In narrow strips of H in. and % in., 5 yards on 2-in. spool. Each spool in a box. 

Prepared Especially for Chiropodists 

Z O Narrow Strips — Surgeons 

In narrow strips of about % in., 5 yards on 2-in. spool. Each spool in a box. 

The small, narrow strip of Z O Adhesive Plaster in this form has found a 
frequent use in surgery. 

It will hold a small bandage in place. It will coapt facial wounds. Small 
incisions can be drawn together, making sewing unnecessary and preventing scars. 

The narrow strip of Z O Plaster is very pliable, conforms to the contour of 
any part without wrinkling, and is non-irritating. It can also be used as a suppor- 
tive dressing for a sprained finger, for holding small splints in place; in fact, hun- 
dreds of uses will suggest themselves in the daily work of the surgeon. 

Zonas Adhesive Plaster 

Zonas Adhesive Plaster is supplied in two colors of mass, white and yellow. 
The white is preferred for wound dressing, the yellow for mechanical purposes; 
either is used for both purposes. 

Rolled on Hollow Cylinders. Each cylinder in a decorated tin box 

1-Yard Rolls H Jn- wide 

1-Yard Rolls 1 in. wide 

1-Yard Rolls 1^ in. wide 

This is a most popular plaster among the laity, by reason of convenience and 
economy. It has largely supplanted the usual court plaster. 

De La Cour's Adhesive Plaster 

(Diachylon or Lead Base) 

For eighty years this plaster has been favorably known and used. Applied 

by heating. 

On Strong Cotton Cloth 

1-Yard Rolls 7 in. wide 

5- Yard Rolls 14 in. wide 

10- Yard Rolls 14 in. wide 

On Moleskin 

(Heavy Pliable Canton Flannel) 

1-Yard Rolls 6 in. wide 

5- Yard Rolls 12 in. wide 

Janus (Double-faced) Adhesive Plaster 

This plaster is made especially for attaching wigs and toupees and for other 
mechanical purposes. It is made with white mass, Z O, on one side and yellow 
mass on reverse. The white side should be placed next to the skin. 

5- Yard Roll 7 in. wide 

1-Yard (in 3 pieces) 7x12 in. 

Strips Ij^x3j^ in., 12 in a box 



192 



Red Cross Notes 



POUOMYELrnS 



P^ooouneed Counter-Iniutioiu Pcoduced by Can- 
Ukm Plaater, Has Been Employed to Save the 
Spinal Cold and Help to Recoveiy in Infantile 
Paralyw. 

The Medical World calls attention to the 
fact that in the pathology of anterior polio- 
myelitis it has been established that the infect- 
ing organisms select the spinal cord and the 
nerves emanating therefrom as the focal point 
of attack. The attack of the infecting organ- 
isms u|H>n these nerves causes intense inflam- 
mation of the parts. A (ierman physician 
some time since devisetl a course of treatment 
.'tddresscd to the relief of the intense inHam- 
mation of the cord and the nerves emanating 
from the anterior column and the cord which 
he recognized as the chief pathological condi- 
tion present. 

This treatment was nothing more or less 
than a blister applied over each side of the 
spinal column to which he added an applica- 
tion of a spice plaster over the abdomen. The 
purpose of this treatment is to create a pro- 
nounced counter-irritation and it was his ex- 
perience that this saved the spinal cord and 
helped to recovery. 

At the retjuest of the Red Cross Notes, Mr. 
Kurrie W. Ostrom. an expert masseur, has 
placed suggestions for this treatment before 
our readers as follows: 

The student of therapeutics finds that 
often old customs and theories now and 
then are rejuvenated. Amongst these we 
could mention cupping, leeching and 
blistering. 

We shall here deal only with the last. 
When we wish to draw an inflammation 
to the surface we can do so readily, not 
only by internal drugs, but also by ex- 
ternal application of medicaments that 
we know will produce a blister. 

Long have we known that an inflam- 
mation of the rniddle ear, so very com- 
mon during early molar dentition of 
children, is quickly relieved by a good 
size (about the size of a silver dollar) 
Canthos plaster over the whole mastoid 
process, but lately the attention of the 
profession has been called by the writer 
(see Medical World, September, 1916, 
et al.) to the great value of the use of 
the Canthos plaster in the early treat- 
ment of acute anterior poliomyelitis. The 
object here is to draw the inflammation, 
so intense as it is to frequently destroy 



the anterior motor portion of the cord. 
out to the surface, and in conjunction 
with a broad spice plaster covering the 
whole abdomen, produces a general and 
most effective counter-irritation. We 
use strips not less than an inch wide, one 
on each side of the spinal column, and 
have them long enough to be assured 
that the first nerve of the brachial plexus 
and the la?t nerve forming the sacra! 
plexus are fully covered. If there be ' 
any trouble or special soreness in the 
cervical region proper, we of course 
cover it up above the atlas. In about' 
two hours the Canthos plaster will pain- 
lessly produce a good blister, whicki 
afterwards is snipped at its lowest por- 
tion, to allow the serous fluid to be re- 
moved. The blisters, of course, are 
antiseptically covered. If in a great 
hurry to raise a blister, sponge the sur- 
face first with a little vinegar and water, 
and should any of the plaster stick wash 
it off with oil. 

To make fully sure that the Canthos 
plaster will securely cover both the 
brachial and the sacral plexus, we make 
use of broad strips of adhesive plaster 
across the spinal column. 

KuRRE W. Ostrom. 



— Chiropodist adhesive plaster strips, 
obtainable on spools, supply a neat and 
convenient means of fastening bandages 
of the fingers and toes — American Jour- 
nal of Surgery. 



— The most important requirement for 
absorbent cotton to be used in surger>' 
is that it be surgically clean — free from 
germs. 



— All physiological phenomena upon 
careful investigation appear to be but 
complex problems of a physical and 
chemical nature. 



The Germ Killing Power of Synol 

THE primary aim in making Synol Soap was to pro- 
duce a substance for the sterilization of the hands of 
the surgeons and nurses in the operating room. It has, 
however, been found adaptable to every use to which 
soap can be applied. 

The United States Public Health and Marine Hos- 
pital Service has devised a precise method for standard- 
izing disinfectants. Synol has been standardized under 
this method. 

Under strict laboratory tests Synol, in diluted solu- 
tion of from one per cent, to five per cent., kills resistant 
disease and wound producing organisms in from twenty 
to fifty seconds. 
We will gladly send you a sample bottle to test for yourself. 



Lister's Formaldehyd Fumigator 

FORMALDEIHYD GAS is recognized by modern science as the 
most reliable and effective destroyer of disease germs and foul odors. 
Lister's Improved Fumigator is recorrmiended as the most efficient, con- 
venient and safe device for the production of for — ''^- 
hyd gas. !t generates the gas e£tsily, diffuses 
Qomicalty, and is free from the unpleasant d 
acountered in many other methods of producir 
Send for Circular No. 272. It tells how 
the Fumigator to kill odors and destroy disease 
Sent free on request. 

Scientific Department 

JOHNSON & JOHNSON 

New Brunswick, N. J. 



Z O Adhesive— The Perfect Plaster 




n yards long, V*, Vi and 1 inch wide. 



Z Narrow Strips 
suitable for small 
operations. 



Special War Issue 

StiiesVll ,., - Nrnnbet Eight 

"Red (fij^ss ^ 
AeTE:^s w 

iusHED BY (Um/^vnm/ ^^AvnnMm^ 

7.j<J»aajotaM (J NEW WtUNSWICK.c/ N.J^U.S.A. 



PUBLISHED 

CoiinW«19i: 



DR. ALEXIS CARREL 

The bmout Fiench nugeon who tun devited a melliod of ontiieptic inigalioa of deep wouodi that 
naiki in remuluhl}' quick recoveiia and, ia inott coaei. without luving any after .etfccU 

Surgery's Progress During the War 



Red Cross Note* 



Whtn Ihe L'nilcd Statca ttvtred diplomatic rtUtions with Germany Johc 
Johnun UMiJ thr mammotb cleclric lisn at Ihtir laboratories at New Brunswick, 
to preach loyalty. The uiiial advenii'ne fealuieg were eliminated from the vf 

high, juat above an electrically'' wavin a flag. The >ign,°aboii1 one hundred feel 
nightly awakened the patriotiim and emhu>iaim of Ihe hundrEds of thousat 
people who travi^l on the Penntrl'ania Railroad between New York and Philad 
Tbc cuneTa man trained his apparatut on (he electric diiplay with ihe aboTe 



War and Its Call to S^vice 

America's entrance into the war is a call to service to every 
physician and surgeon in the country. There is patriotic work to do 
at home as well as in the army and navy. 

The public must be taught that typhoid fever, dysentery and 
smallpox always prevail extensively in time of war unless unusual 
precautions are taken to protect the health. The warning must be 
sounded that war means a food shortage and that beri-beri, 
pellagra and scurvy are diseases associated with a deficiency of 
nutrition. 

Municipalities must be taught health and sanitation prepared- 
ness and the medical profession must take the leadership in such 
work. 

Surgery, called upon to perform heroic service, will have the 
advantage of experience gained upon the European battlefields, 
where wonderful advance has been made during the past two years. 
Some of these achievements are described in this issue of the 
Notes. 

Johnson & Johnson have answered the call to service by placing 
their laboratories at the disposal of the Government and our large 
manufacturing equipment will be taxed to its fullest capacity for a 
long time to come. Loyalty and patriotism demand that we shall 
perform our full share of the Government work and our obligations 
to our customers, to whom we owe our success, demand that we 
take care of their normal and legitimate requirements. 

The task of furnishing a vast quantity of supplies to the Gov- 
ernment and of keeping our regular customers supplied is going 
to be a serious problem, but we know we shall have the loyal co- 
operation of our customers and we are meeting the situation with 
all the energy we possess. 



Red Cross Notes "* 

The Birth of a New Era in Surgery 

The Caird-Dakin Method d Antiaeptic Irrigatioa o( Deep Woimdi, Bom of the 

Ejdgendes of the Great War, Makes the Surgeon Master of Infection — 

No Longei Win Amputation Be a Matter for Instant Deciaoa 

When Dr. Alexis Carrel, at the out- 
break of the European war, placed his 
services at the disposal of his native land 
—France — eighty per cent of the ampu- 
tations in the French military hospitals 
were due to infection and twenty per 
cent to destruction of tissue. He, in com- 
mon with all the surgeons of the French 
army, realized that the greatest surgical 
need of the hour was a method of better 
sterilization of wounds. 

Out of that need came the Carrel- 
Dakin method of antiseptic irrigation of 
deep wounds, the success of which in 
France and this country inspires confi- 
dence that it will prevent almost all am- 
putations due to infection. It gives the 
sui^eon perfect control ; makes him 
master of infection. 

No longer will the surgeon be called 
upon to decide at once whether he shall 
run the risk of forfeiting his patient's 
life by delay, or cripple his patient for 
life by immediate amputation. By sim- 
ply keeping the wound sterile the sur- 
geon can safely keep it open until the 
flesh grows and fills out the wounded 
part and nature completes its process of 
healing. 

The difficulty in effecting complete 
sterilization heretofore, surgeons admit, 
has been almost entirely on account of 
the inability to reach anything except the 
surface with the antiseptics. 



flushmg a wound, according to 
evised Ey her husband, with the 
oVution. This photograph wai 



"Dr. Carrel at the outst 


it conceived the 


idea," writes one of the i 


investigators of 


his method, "that just a; 


; one washes a 


sponge by repeated s: 


iturations and 


wringings. so should a w< 


jund be washed 


by some sort of a 'flushi: 


iig" system that 


would send the antisep 


tic solution to 



every part of the wound, allow it to pick 
up, so to speak, the germs of infection, 
and then carry them away. It was such 
a system that Dr. Carrel set himself to 

Such foremost surgeons as Dr. Wm. 
O'Neill Sherman, chief surgeon of the 
Carnegie Steel Co.. at Pittsburgh, Pa., 
and Dr. H. H. M. Lyie, professor of 
Clinical Surgery of the College of Physi- 
cians and Surgeons of Columbia Uni- 
versity, who were privileged to witness 
the resuhs obtained by this method of 
wound sterilization in the French hos- 
pitals, have been the leaders in inform- 
ing American surgery of the new tech- 
nique. Several American hospitals are 
now using the method with success. 

The condition which confronted Dr. 



Red Crou Notes 



Carrel when he established his research 
laboratory at Compiegne, Oise, France, 
during the winler of 1914-lS, was that all 
wounds produced by shells, torpedoes, 
grenades, etc.. were infected and that 
the methods of handling these cases were 
powerless to prevent gas gangrene, sepli- 
cxmia and chronic suppuration. His 
problem was to improve this condition- 
Sir Almoth Wright, Colonel Grey and 
Professor Rutherford Morrison and 
others had formulated methods and 
treatments, but Carrel found them un- 
certain and unsatisfactory. He recog- 
nized the necessity for a specific, or a 
technique which would abort infection 
and control suppuration and which could 
be standardized throughout the military 
hospitals. 

He called upon Henry D. Dakin. the 
great English chemist, now of New 
York, to produce a sterilizing solution 
while he devoted himself to the perfec- 



I date on wbicb 



tion of an apparatus for applying this 
solution. The result is what is known 
today as the Carrel-Dakin method of 
antiseptic irrigation of deep wounds, the 
possibility of which is summed up b; 
Dr. Lyie in these words: 

"I firmly believe that the adoption of 
this method is destined to save many 
lives, to reduce the gravity of the muti- 
lations, and allow the rapid return to 
the front of many men who would other- 
wise be lost to the service of the coun- 
try." 

The new principle involved in this 
wound treatment is the gradual but 
complete sterilization of a wound by in- . 
termittent saturation of the dressing in 
contact with the injured surfaces by 
means of the Carrel-Dakin solution of 
sodium hypochlorite. The solution is 
carried from a reservoir to the site of 
the wound by means of a main rubber 
tube. From this tube it is carried into 



Red Cross Notes 



When the foldier with Ihis 



Professors Gosae and Chuslro.) 

the wound by smaller distributing tubes 
of rubber, the distal ends of which are 
perforated with fine holes. 

Generally the perforated area of these 
tub*s is wrapped with Turkish toweling 
or similar material to aid in thorough 
diffusion of the solution. Approximate- 
ly every two hours the wound is satu- 
rated with the solution by releasing a 
screw pinch-cock which constricts the 
main rubber tube leading from the res- 
ervoir, which is usually hung on the 
head of the bed. 

The proper regulation of the amount 
of solution is accomplished when the 
wound is completely saturated without 
flooding the bed. It is not a continuous 
irrigation process. 

While not irritating to the underlying 
tissue, the solution is somewhat irritat- 
ing to the skin, and it is therefore good 
technique to protect the skin surround- 
ing the wound by applying to it strips of 
gauie saturated with ordinary petrola- 



an artificial 1«. The phgtograph shows 
»ith Carrel's luSes in position. (Courtesy 

turn. These are laid upon the skin with 
their edges close to the edges of the 
wound. 

The Carrel-Dakin solution itself is a 
solution of sodium hypochlorite made by 
adding sodium carbonate to calcium 
hypochlorite (chlorid of lime), but it 
differs from all previously used solu- 
tions of such character in the particu- 
lars that its chlorin content must be ex- 
act within given limits and that its 
caustic alkalinity must be completely 
neutralized -by means of sodium bicar- 
bonate. 

The failure of all previously devised 
solutions of this character, Drs. Carrel 
and Dakin found, was due to the wide 
and constantly changing variations in 
the chlorin strength of calcium hypo- 
chlorite, and to the caustic soda con- 
tained in solutions made of it in combi- 
nation with sodium carbonate. 

The Carrel-Dakin solution is quite dis- 
tmct from any chlorin solution previ- 



191 



Red Cross Notes 



ously known and should be strongly dif- 
ferentiated from chlorin solutions known 
as "Javelle Water," "Labarraque's Solu- 
tion/' "Chlorazene," etc. It is described 
as "an ideal isotonic and wound anti- 
septic of high disinfecting qualities with 
low toxic or irritating qualities." 

In addition to being a strong wound 
and bactericidal solution because of its 
pyocytohemolytic powers it has the ad- 
vantage of being able to dissolve pus, 
old blood clots, tissue debris, etc. The 
living tissues resist this dissolution ow- 
ing to the protection afforded them by 
the sodium chlorid of the serum. 

It is believed that the Carrel-Dakin 
method opens a new and hitherto un- 
known field to surgery. By means of 
this technique many amputations can be 
avoided and much suffering prevented. 
Uncertainty and doubt as to the best 
procedure on the part of the surgeon is 
removed. He need no longer be com- 
pelled to decide at once whether to 
amputate or run the risk of general in- 
fection or of gangrene. Serious com- 
pound fractures, infected joints or ab- 
scesses, for instance, may safely be treat- 
ed by this method with entire assurance 
that the surgeon can produce a sterile 
wound and can maintain it in that con- 
dition indefinitely or until circumstances, 
in his opinion, warrant closure of the 
wound. 

It is, therefore, believed that there is 
now at hand for the surgeon a new 
source of power. 



PAMPHLET ON CARREL 
METHODS 

An eight-page illustrated pamphlet en- 
titled "The Carrel-Dakin Method of 
Wound Sterilization" has been issued by 
the Scientific Department of Johnson & 
Johnson. A copy will be sent free to 
any physician interested in this subject 
upon request. 



HYGIENE IN MATERNITY 

The forty-eight page book which bears 
the title of "Hygiene in Maternity" has 
proven a real help to physicians and 
nurses in maternity cases. It answers 
questions which the busy practitioner is 
not always on hand to answer. Many 



HYGIENE IN 

MATCRNHY 



bILX 



physicians and nurses place it in the 
hands of expectant mothers. In its com- 
pilation the assistance of the best obstet- 
rical authorities was secured. 

Johnson & Johnson will send a copy to 
any physician or nurse requesting it and. 
if desired, will supply a quantity for dis- 
tribution among obstetric patients. There 
is no charge for this service. 



POWER OF CAMPHENOL 

A new eight-page booklet describing 
the medical and surgical uses and the 
germicidal power of Camphenol has been 
issued by the Scientific Department of 
Johnson & Johnson. Hospitals, physi- 
cians, health boards, and surgeons of 
various public institutions have tested 
Camphenol and have agreed to its vahie 
as a disinfectant. A copy of the booklet, 
which is No. 328. will be sent to any 
physician or nurse or hospital executive. 



Red Cross Notes 



199 



Technique of the Carrel-Dakin Method 

The Methods for the Use of the Wound Sterilizing Solution Abridged from the 

Writings of Carrel, Sherman, Lyle and Others, with Special Reference to 

MiKtary Practice — Johnson & Johnson Supply the Ingredients 



For the accommodation of practi- 
tioners who desire to use the Carrel- 
Dakin method of wound sterilization the 
Johnson & Johnson Laboratories have 
worked out a method by which the in- 
gredients are supplied in glass tubes. 
The tubes are supplied in pairs, marked 
A and B. 

The contents of these two tubes, bear- 
ing the same lot number, when mixed 
and shaken up thoroughly for not less 
than fifteen minutes in the amount of 
water stated on label and filtered, will 
make the Carrel-Dakin solution, for 
wound treatment, of proper strength 
(.45% to .50% sodium hypochlorite), 
and free from caustic alkalinity. 

The methods which here follow for 
the use of the Carrel-Dakin Solution 
have been abridged from the writings of 
Drs. Carrel, Sherman, Lyle, and others. 
For a more complete technique, see "Sur- 
gery, Gynecology and Obstetrics," for 
March, 1917, pp. 255-274; Journal A. M. 
A., January 13, 1917, pp. 107-110. 

It is to be noted that the observations 
upon the use of this solution up to the 
present have, for the most part, been 
made with special reference to military 
.practice, but many operators have now 
extended the use to civilian practice. 
The suggestions herein given may be 
easily adapted to meet conditions. 

"In military practice the area sur- 
rounding the wound is disinfected with 
tincture of iodine, followed by an in- 
jection of the Carrel-Dakin solution in 
the wound if it is small or narrow ; if it 
IS wide and fairly open a gauze pack is 
saturated with the Carrel-Dakin solution 
and applied. At the civilian hospitals, if 



the wounds are extensive or conditions 
warrant, a general anesthetic is adminis- 
tered and the operating field prepared in 
the usual way. 

"A free incision and thorough explora- 
tion for foreign bodies in all wounds 
should be made at the earliest possible 
opportunity. All bleeding points should 
be ligated ; the shell tract should be 
freely opened and all devitalized tissue 
excised. The Carrel tubes should be car- 
ried to the bottom of the wound, and 
gauze placed loosely between them. 

"The number of tubes to be used must 
be decided by the size and depth of the 
wound. They should be inserted so tha* 
all parts of the Avound are constantly 
bathed with the solution. To prevent tht 
tubes from bunching in the wound, strips 
of gauze are placed loosely between 
them. The gauze serves the double pur- 
pose of keeping the tubes in situ and re- 
taining the solution. Gauze should never 
be packed tightly in the wound. A gauze 
compress is gently placed over the tubes 
and the dressing completed by covering 
with Turkish toweling. The dressing is 
fixed with a bandage, care being taken 
not to constrict the tubes, but fixing 
them to prevent displacement." 

For superficial wounds the Carrel 
tubes are covered with Turkish towel- 
ing, extending from the distal end to a 
point just beyond the proximal perfora- 
tion. These tubes remain in position 
without slipping over the tissues and 
keep the wound areas sufficiently bathed. 

"The solution should be allowed to 
flow into the wound by releasing the 
stop-cock, allowing just sufficient solu- 
tion to enter the wound to fill it and not 



Red Crosa Notes 



Dniibic Iraumallc ampiilalinn of bnlh legs b> 



overflow. The wounds are 'laked' or 
•puddled' with the solution. Where pain 
is experienced the container should be 
lowered. The pain is due either to pres- 
sure or the causticity of the solution. 

"Emphasis must be laid upon the fact 
that the most effective method is the in- 
termittent instillation every two hours, 
day and night, and not constant irriga- 
tion. The amount of solution to be in- 
jected can be prescribed by the surgeon 
in charge. However, the attending 
nurses soon learn by experience just how 
much solution is necessary." 



In order to protect the skin from the 
liquid which may accumulate in the de- 
pendent portion of the dressing, gauze 
impregnated with yellow petrolatum ts 
applied to the surface around the wound. 

"Before completing the final dressing 
the solution can be injected into the 
wound to ascertain the amount of solu- 
tion necessary to fill the cavity com- 
pletely, and whether or not it is reaching 
all the parts." 

"The final dressing consists of a gauze 
pad saturated with the Carrel-Dakin so- 
lution, over which a large pad of non- 
absorbent cotton, completely enveloping 
the extremity, is placed. A Turkish 



«.) 



ached. (Dr. Wm. O'Neil 



towel can be used instead of non-absorb- 
ent gauie pads if desired." 

"The wound should be re-dresseJ 
daily. In emergency cases, dressings can 
be delayed two or three days providing 
the instillation of the solution is kept up. 
It is absolutely necessary that a irte 
and open incision be used, to permit the 
easy introduction of the tubes and gauze 
in the wound." 



"Bacteriological verification is a most 
valuable feature of Carrel's method, and 
should be carried out if possible. 

"It consists in counting the number of 
pus- producing micro-organisms present 
in the wound during the stages of its 
evolution. The smear taken during the 
first six or seven days shows that the 
exudation consists of an enormous num- 
ber of microbes and polsTuorphonuclear 
leukocytes. The polymorphonuclears 
gradually disappear after the seventh 
day. Small mononuclears appear in their 
place, the microbes decreasing at the 
same time. The macrophages appear af- 
ter the tenth or eleventh day. At this 
time but few are found in the field; the 
bacteria are frequently incorporated by 
the phagocytes. De Page considers the 
appearance of the macrophages a favor- 



Red Cross Notes 



F 6 H 



fiMMSa 




I — Syringe for applying solution by hand, 
J— Flaik for uk with eyringe. 



ibic symptom, indicating that the wound 
is becoming aseptic. 

"To foliow the course of nf n a 
bacterial chart resembling j m h the 
IfMperature chart, has be n d d by 

Carrel, In a general way th ba t 1 
curve of the wounds treat d by C 1 
method followed a characteristic course. 
As many as one thousand microbes can 
he counted in a single field in virulent 
infections. During the course of treat- 
ment of the wounds, the chart may indi- 
cate more or less marked oscillation, but 
notwithstanding these oscillations the 
general tendency is toward descension of 
Ihe bacterial curve, which arrives at zero 
after five to twenty-five days of treat- 

"The superficial wounds are more rap- 
idly sterilized and can be sutured at the 
fnd of six to ten days. The extensively 
infected wounds require a longer period 
to become aseptic — usually fifteen to 



twenty-five days. Extreme care should 
be taken to obtain smears from different 
parts of the wounds in compound frac- 
tures; smears should be taken from the 
bone and from the different portions of 
the wound before suture is allempled. 
Compound fractures are generally steril- 
ized within fifteen to twenty-five days. 
"Smears should be made every two or 
three days and the bacterial count should 
be recorded on the chart. After the 
bacteria have been reduced to an aver- 
age of one bacterium to five fields, count- 
ing at least twenty fields to secure this 
average, and (his result has been ob- 
tained for four or five consecutive days, 
suture may be accomplished empirically 
and union by first intention secured. The 
wounds should not be sutured until the 
area has only one bacterium to five fields. 
If they are sutured while there is one 
bacterium to one or two fields, there is a 
tendency toward stitch abscess." 



202 



Red Cross Notes 



Dressing Bums with Redintol 

Wonderful Results Are Being Produced in the French War Hospitals and in this 
Country with a New Dressing of a Hot Solution of Waxes and Resins — 

The Technique of Operators 



Standing out prominently among the 
surgical achievements revealed by the 
European war is a new dressing for 
burns and granulating wounds. The 
dressing is simplicity itself, but the re- 
sults are marvelous. By applying a hot 
solution of waxes and resins upon the 
burn wound, pain is immediately re- 
lieved, an air-excluding shell is formed 
over the wound and nature is permitted 
to do its healing under the most favor- 
able conditions. 

A number of American surgeons who 
studied the new method of dressing burn 
wounds in France are enthusiastic in 
their reports. They brought back to this 
country some of the dressing compound 
used at the Hospital St. Nicolas at Issy- 
sur-MoHneaux. 

The result has been that this com- 
pound, which is called "ambrine," has 
been exploited in medical, lay and tech- 
nical journals as a "wonderful healing 
substance" and surgeons throughout the 
country have become greatly interested 
in it. 

Dr. Wm. O'Neill Sherman, chief sur- 
geon of the Carnegie Steel Co., at Pitts- 
burgh, Pa., during a study of wound 
disinfection methods employed by the 
European surgeons on the battlefields, 
became interested in the French com- 
pound for dressing wounds and brought 
a quantity of the compound back to this 
country with him. He used it not only 
in burn cases, but also in granulating 
wounds. "Those not familiar with the 
results in France," Dr. Sherman is 
quoted as saying, "are dumbfounded at 
the rapidity with which the wounds heal. 
I simply should not know what to do 
without it." 



Dr. Sherman has described and illus- 
trated his work with the substance be- 
fore medical gatherings in Buffalo, Phil- 
adelphia, Chicago and other cities, in- 
cluding the Mayo Clinic at Rochester, 
Minn. 

The French compound, a secret for- 
mula, but said to be a mixture of wax 
and resins, has been difficult to obtain 
and has sold at fanciful prices. Numer- 
ous surgeons, who had become interested 
and who had been unable to secure the 
French compound, appealed to Johnson 
& Johnson. They believed that the same 
compound could be produced in this 
country and felt that this country should 
have the benefit of its wonderful prop- 
erties. 

The Scientific Department of Johnson 
& Johnson, after a long series of ex- 
haustive experiments and tests, pro- 
duced Redintol to take the place of the 
French compound. This preparation is 
a mixture of paraffin and resins, hav- 
ing dissimilar melting points, supplied in 
a solid brown wax-like cake. In ap- 
pearance it looks like a cake of maple 
sugar. 

Redintol has been used in hospitals 
and private practice for several months. 
Surgeons have been surprised at the 
results. They have found that the dress- 
ing is easy to apply; that pain is re- 
lieved almost immediately; that the 
dressing can be removed without dis- 
turbing the wound and that the healing 
is rapid. 

Briefly summarized, the principal prop- 
erties of Redintol are : 

Redintol becomes fluid at about 120 
F. It is applied to the tissues at a tem- 
perature of about 140** to 150° F. In 



Red Cross Notes 



Tound hospitals abound, and 
ustic fasfaion, but here the u 



Other words, when melted until it flows 
it is ready to apply. 

Redintol is analgesic; it forms at once 
an occlusive dressing, under which tis- 
sues rapidly heal. 

Redintol, when melted, does not seem 
to burn the tissues; at least no sensi- 
tiveness is felt from the burned area, 
granulated surface, etc. On the other 
hand, it relieves the acute pain caused 
by the burn. 

Redintol dressing is plastic and elastic. 
At the temperature of the body it is 
sufficiently mobile to form a glaze, which 
conforms to the tissue so that each cell 
IS covered. 

Redintol dressing adjusts itself to the 
injured area, and is easily removed with- 
out causing pain in the slightest degree. 

Removal of the dres.sing is accom- 
plished without hemorrhage and without 
tearing the newly formed cells. 
Redintol dressing promotes the heal- 



one of the wardrooms. The beds are of 
n patience until the fire storm has passed. 

ing of the tissues without the usual 
scarring, without contraction of the skin 
or tendons, and generally with the ab- 
sence of functional weakness. 

Redintol dressing constitutes a shell or 
covering, under which there is a rapid 
reformation of new skiti. 

Skin grafting is in most instances un- 
necessary where this dressing is em- 

In the methods heretofore used for 
treating burns the frequent tearing away 
of the newly formed cells in removing 
the dressing has been the cause of pain. 
The Redintol method is practically pain- 
less — the patients like the treatment. 

METHOD OF APPLICATION 

The technique here given has been 
gathered from the suggestions of opera- 
tors who have used Redintol dressing. 
Other procedures will suggest themselves 
to the individual surgeon. 

Certain points are apparent. 



204 



Red Cross Notes 



Redintol is perfectly anhydrous, and 
must be kept and applied absolutely free 
from moisture. It must be applied to a 
wound which, so far as possible, has 
been made dry. 

A small amount of water in the dress- 
ing, or a wet wound surface, will cause 
pain. When free from water hot Redin- 
tol dressing is analgesic. 

Mek the Redintol in any convenient 
vessel, either directly over the fire or 
by setting the vessel in hot or boiling 
water. If melted by the latter method 
take care that no water splashes into the 
melting fluid. 

Redintol melts at 120° F., and is to be 
applied at a temperature not below 140° 
F. nor above 150° F. 

A thermometer should be used. 

Apply the melted Redintol to the in- 
jured surface with a camel's hair brush, 
spreading it over the surface with a gen- 
tle dabbing, not pressing, and not brush- 
ing like paint. Cover the entire area in- 
cluding about one-half inch beyond the 
edges of the injury. Take care to leave 
no spot uncovered. 

The melted Redintol may cause a 
twinge when applied to the uninjured 
area. 

Place at once over the wax glaze, 
while still warm, a thin layer of absorb- 
ent cotton, made by splitting layers 
of cotton from a roll cut into convenient 
size pieces. The layers of cotton may be 
gently pressed into the glaze. Over the 
layer of absorbent cotton give another 
coat of the melted Redintol by gentle 
dabbing, as before. 

Johnson & Johnson prepare a special 
form of sheet cotton for use with Redin- 
tol. This, or the ordinary absorbent cot- 
ton, may be used. In extensive areas 
small squares may be treated successive- 
ly to avoid the cooling of the first coat- 
ing. The whole will then join together 
as one shell. 



When the coating is complete it may 
be covered with the usual gauze, cotton 
or lint dressing, which in turn may be 
held in place with a bandage or adhesive 
plaster. 

For the first few days the shell should 
be removed every twenty-four hours. 
This for the reason that there will usu- 
ally be found to be an abundant flow of 
lymph beneath the shell. After a few 
days this exudation diminishes and the 
dressing can be left in place for a longer 
period. 

RE-DRESSING THE BURN 

Each day after the removal of the wax 
the burn is examined and it is essential 
here that it be let alone as much as pos- 
sible. Of course at first all sloughing 
spots and pus must be taken away but it 
is essential that it be done as gently as 
possible. One satisfactory method is to 
lay gently on the wound a piece of g^auze, 
touching it lightly with the finger tips 
and thus removing such pus as may be 
present, exactly as a blotter is used after 
writing with pen and ink. The next 
thing is to dry the surface of the bum. 
This is done by one of the hot air elec- 
tric driers such as the barbers use for 
drying the hair. Fanning by hand will 
accomplish the same result more slowly 
and imperfectly. Before this treatment, 
the burn is bright red and covered with 
a watery exudate. This should be dried 
by means of a fan until it has a dull 
varnish-like appearance, after which a 
new coat of Redintol is applied as be- 
fore. There should be no wiping, but a 
gentle dabbing in order to avoid disturb- 
ance of granulations, and to prevent 
bleeding. 

Certain operators have used a special 
apparatus for the application of Redin- 
tol, such as an atomizer, so as to blow a 
fine spray of the melted Redintol upon 
the burned surface. 

(Continued on page 209) 



Red Cross Notes 



ANTISEPTIC SOAPS 

The Use of Medicated Soaps by the Profession as 
a Means Towards the Destruction and Elimina- 
tion of Infection — Soaps the Surgeon Can Use 
with Confidence. 

The utility of medicated soaps for the 
physician and the surgeon, and especially 
for the dermatologist, is recognized. 
Dr. Robert Shoemaker made the state- 
ment that **the fact that the very agent 
which cleanses a certain area is also the 
vehicle by which a remedy is applied, is 
a sound argument for the employment 
of medicated soaps. '* 

The effect of soap upon the skin is both 
mechanical and chemical. It not only 
cleanses the cutaneous surface, re- 
moving foreign matter and physiological 
and pathological products, but penetrates 
into the glands and, by dissolving the 
fatty material filling the ducts, facili- 
tates its removal. 

Soap also exerts an influence upon the 
nutrition of the skin, stimulating its 
functions and promoting the absorption 
of the inflammatory exudates. 

Medicated soaps have long been recog- 
nized as a means for applying remedies 
in cutaneous diseases. In this condition, 
in addition to the solvent and cleansing 
action of the soap, there is a promotion 
of the absorption of the incorporated 
medicament. In the lather of a medi- 
cated soap, when applied to the skin, 
the contained drug is not only rendered 
active and soluble, but is enabled to pen- 
etrate parts otherwise inaccessible. 

In addition to the medicinal effects of 
such soaps, it has been demonstrated 
that many of the antiseptics, when com- 
bined with the soap base, exhibit a more 
powerful bacterial and germicidal action 
than from any other form of application. 
Hence the use of antiseptic soaps for the 
disinfection of the skin of the patient, 
the hands of the surgeon and his assis- 



tants. Antiseptic soaps have also at- 
tained a large use m the handling of 
infectious disease in epidemics, etc. 

From this it may be urged that the 
extension of the use of antiseptic soaps 
in the home where contagious disease 
prevails, and in public lavatories, would 
be desirable. 

There seems to be no good reason why 
antiseptic soaps, especially those of cer- 
tain kinds, might not well be substituted 
for the ordinary toilet soap for domestic 
use. 

Many toilet soaps are indifferently 
prepared, from questionable fats. They 
are often highly perfumed to overcome 
decomposed or objectionable ingredients. 

Thus it may be urged that the use of 
medicated soaps in the hands of the 
practitioner would be found a useful ad- 
junct, especially in the treatment of 
cutaneous diseases, and that the use of 
antiseptic soaps by the profession and 
by the laity will be one means towards 
the destruction and elimination of in- 
fection. 

Johnson & Johnson manufacture a line 
of medicated and antiseptic soaps, which 
already have attained a large use both 
by the profession and laity . These soaps 
are made from neutral white soap, con- 
tain no added ingredients or filling ma- 
terial, no coloring matter or pigments 
whatever . These soaps are guaranteed 
to contain the percentage of medicament 
as stated on the label. 

The list of medicated, antiseptic and 
other soaps prepared by Johnson & John- 
son is as follows: 

BoRATED Soap — (Medication, boracic 
acid b^o). This soap has been exten- 
sively employed in parasitic affections 
of the skin, especially in diseases at- 
tended with fetid secretions and crusts. 
Being perfectly non-irritating, innoxious 
and odorless it can be employed with 
perfect safety as an ordinary toilet soap. 



Soaps and Antiseptics Worthyl 



Synol Soap is now supplied in cake form. It retains all of 
the sterilizing qualities which have made liquid Synol the fore- 
most soap for surgeons. Two cakes in a packet. 



Profession's Confide 



style bottle for liquid Synol Soap. Note the fin- 



ir own home and practice and recommend 
tt on application. 



Red Cross Notes 



Ca.rbolic Soap (Cresol) — ^Medi- 
cation cresols 4^o). The cresols are 
known as powerful but innoxious anti- 
septics, and in this form enjoy an exten- 
sive use in both medical and surgical 
practice. 

This soap is an efficient means of dis- 
infection in surgery, as well as a dis- 
infectant in infectious diseases, and in 
the treatment of certain parasitic in- 
fections of the skin. 

LanolinSoap— (Lanolin lOoi). Inad- 
dition to its qualities of a soap proper, 
in using this soap there is left on the 
skin a layer of lanolin, which acts as a 
most excellent dressing for tender skin. 
Can be used with excellent effects as a 
toilet soap . 

Sulphur Soap— (Medication flowers 
of sulphur b9i>). The mild stimulating 
emollient properties of sulphur soap have 
long been known, and have been popular 
both with the profession and the laity. 
Sulphur soap is indicated in such dis- 
orders as acne rosacea, seborrhea, and 
other parasitic affections, particularly 
in scabies. 

Tar Soap— ( Medication tar 5<fo). Tar 
soap has been used for many years in 
the treatment of chronic scaly eruptions 
of the skin, particularly eczema and 
psoriasis. Tar soap has the important 
property of allaying itching. It has also 
been employed in pitjrriasis and ich- 
thyosis. 

Sublimated Soap— (Medication bi- 
chloride of mercury 1%). This soap is 
said to be of special value in the treat- 
ment of parasitic affections of the skin, 
particularly in scabies, ringworms, fa- 
vus, pediculosis, etc. In connection with 
topical remedies it has also been used in 
syphilitic infection of the skin. 

By some practitioners this soap is also 
employed as a disinfectant in surgical 
cases, in contagious disease, and for gen- 



eral purposes in the office, the hospital 
and the household. 

Synol Soap— Synol Soap is supplied 
in two forms— liquid and cake. This 
soap has been long in use for the sterili- 
zation of hands of the surgeon, the nurse, 
in the operating room, as well as for 
general use in the hospital, the office and 
the household. 

Synol Soap, either in cake or liquid 
form, has powerful germicidal proper- 
ties. It has been clearly established by 
acknowledged standards that Synol Soap, 
either in cake or liquid form, will de- 
stroy at once the common disease-pro- 
ducing and pus-producing organisms. In 
addition to this, Synol is a most thorough 
cleansing agent. It removes and emul- 
sifies all dirt and grease, thus allowing 
the penetration of its germicidal con- 
tents. 

Synol is an excellent bathing and sham- 
poo soap. 

Synol has found an important use in 
the sick room, especially in contagious 
disease. 

HOW TO use medicated SOAP 

The following suggestions for the use 
of medicated soaps were gathered from 
various authorities. 

To secure a mild action use medicated 
soap in the same manner as toilet soap. 
By this method the soap remains on the 
skin only a short time before it is rinsed 
off. 

The effect of the soap applicatioa 
varies in intensity according to the 
length of time the lather is left in con- 
tact with the skin. More active effects 
are produced when the lather is rubbed 
into the skin and allowed to remain for 
a few minutes and then wiped off with 
a towel or permitted to dry. 

More intense action is secured by 
applying an impervious dressing, such 
«is oiled silk or rubber tissue, after a 
fhorough inunction with the soap. 



Red Cross Notes 



J09 



(Continued from page 204) 

The important point is the avoidance 
of stroking the surface of the wound; 
rather a gentle touching or dabbing with 
the side of a fine camel's hair brush. 

The great and peculiar difference be- 
tween the Redintol and other forms of 
treatment is that with the Redintol treat- 
ment all disturbance of the newly form- 
ing cells is avoided. 

The melted fluid should be applied 
very gently over the uninjured surface, 
which is more sensitive than the injured 
area. 

After a few days' treatment, upon re- 
moval of the dressing a definite border 
of rapidly proliferating tissue will be 

! found, and if there are any undestroyed 

' cells, islands of new skin will appear as 
grayish- white spots dotting the surface. 

i If the burn has left portions of epider- 
mal tissue, the Redintol method of treat- 
ment will save it and favor its rapid re- 

I pair. Under the dressing new skin be- 
gins to form almost immediately, and in 
an exceedingly short space of time the 
entire surface begins to be covered. 

A peculiar odor is developed in the 
burned areas under the Redintol dress- 

, ing and is evidently due to the growth of 
certain anaerobic organisms. 

After a few days' treatment with Red- 
intol, a thin delicate growth of newly 
formed skin tissue can be seen along the 

; edges of the wound creeping in and re- 
ducing the area of the burned surface. 
Injury to these cells should be most stu- 
diously and carefully avoided. 

Redintol has also been found useful in 

the treatment of chilblains, frost bites, 

bruises, excoriations, and in conditions 

of raw, denuded, or inflamed areas. 

It is believed that many other uses will 

! be developed when the effects of this 
compound shall have been fully under- 
stood. 



Reports which have reached this 
country from France tell of the wonder- 
ful success of the French compound 
which is similar to Redintol. A corre- 
spondent of Le Figaro, who visited the 
hospital at Issy, wrote that some whose 
faces were "unrecognizable under a sort 
of glazing that covered them," assured 
him that they suffered no pain. 

American surgeons who have used 
Redintol have found that the patient suf- 
fers no pain from the application of the 
dressing and that the healing is very 
rapid. 

The length of time for complete heal- 
ing largely depends on the promptness 
with which the treatment is begun. One 
story which has come from France illus- 
trates this : A young army doctor was 
brought to Issy who had been terribly 
burned six weeks before. His hands by 
that time were permanently drawn, the 
fingers cramped so that they could not 
be straightened. 

This young doctor watched other men 
brought in with similar wounds, saw 
them gradually regain perfect muscular 
flexibility and realized his own misfor- 
tune in not having had his wounds 
dressed with the wax compound. 



THE RESULTS IN FRANCE 

The New York Medical Times of 
March 10, 1917, in an editorial upon the 
French preparation and other similar 
compounds for the treatment of burns, 
says: 

**We have several times referred to the 
apparently remarkable results obtained 
in France by the use of a paraffin prep- 
aration in the treatment of burns. A 
number of reports regarding this have 
appeared in the French medical journals 
and accounts have also appeared on this 
side in both the lay and the medical 
press. Our own Paris correspondent, 
who is a well known physician of wide 



210 



Red Cross Notes 



experience, wrote a few weeks ago in 
such almost extravagant terms of its 
healing properties that had he been a 
man of less assured standing and judg- 
ment his letter would probably never 
have seen the light. 

"The testimony of English writers also 
who have seen the remedy applied in 
France, is all of the same tenor. Lieu- 
tenant-Colonel Hull of the Royal Army 
Medical Corps, says that, under the use 
of the French preparation, *burns healed 
with rapidity; constitutional symptoms 
rapidly abated; pain was reduced to a 
minimum; scarring appeared to be obvi- 
ated, or at any rate was not apparent. 
The need for grafting large burns ap- 
peared to be avoided. The burns healed 
so rapidly with healthy granulations that 
there appeared to be nothing to be 
gained by grafting. The patients were 
singularly free from sepsis. The con- 
clusion arrived at from experimenting 
with the treatment was that mild burns 
healed with singular rapidity, and severe 
cases recovered which would have been 
unlikely to recover by the ordinary meth- 
ods of treatment. 

* 'Observers who had had large expe- 
rience of burns treated by picric acid, 
ointments, and other methods in ordi- 
nary use, were unanimously of the opin- 
ion that the paraffin method was superior 
to the older methods. The experience 
of those who had witnessed the results 
of burns after liquid fire attacks was 
that the French treatment would save 
many lives, and accelerate the recovery 
of all burns. 

"'Severe burns of the third degree, 
accompanied by sloughing, and in a very 
septic condition, have cleaned and taken 
on healthy repair under this treatment. 
Severe burns of both palmar and dorsal 
surfaces of the hands, extending to the 
tendon sheaths, have healed in three 
weeks without contracting cicatrices.' " 



IODINE APPLICATOR 
Johnson & Johnson have placed upon 
the market an improved form of iodine 
applicator. This applicator consists of 
a glass tube holding one cubic centi- 
meter of half -strength iodine, sufficient 
to cover any ordinary injury. In large 




areas two or more applicators may be 
used. 

The applicator provides a safe, prac- 
tical and convenient way to apply iodine. 
The tube is pointed at one end and over 
this end a cotton brush is affixed, being 
held firm to the tube by means of adhe- 
sive plaster. This brush must not be re- 
moved. To use the applicator, break 
the pointed end of the tube with the 
finger at the line where the cotton and 
adhesive plaster meet. 



THE FIRST AID CHART 

Physicians whose practice includes 
care of the injured at industrial plants 
will appreciate the following extract 
from a letter received from Dr. Ira S. 
Wile, of 230 West 97th Street, New York 
City : 

"The First Aid Chart which you sent 
me is excellent and I think should be 
posted in every industrial establishment 
employing 25 persons or more. It is 
simple and practical and so generally 
self-explanatory that it could be under- 
stood by shop foremen." 

The chart is 27 x 44 inches in size and 
is mounted on heavy board. It folds for 
carrying. The front is in ten colors and 
the back contains full first aid instruc- 
tions in black and white. It is a com- 
plete working guide to first aid. The 
chart is sold at three dollars each by 
druggists and physicians* supply houses. 



Red Cross Notes 



Treatment of the Wounded in Flanders 

Hours Often Pass Before Wounded Soldiers Can Be Camed to the Qearing Hos- 
pital, Where they are Sorted According to Injuries 



The following notes as to 
of the wounded at the front in Belgi 
and France have been abstracted fi 
the writings of personal corresponde 
of those who have had experience v 
the contending forces : 



forty-eight hours before receiving at- 
tention. The shell or bullet wounds not 
only caused great damage to the tissues, 
but they carried into the tract of the 
wound virulent bacteria. The delay in 
bringing the wounded from the firing 
line is lamentable, but unfortunately can- 
not be prevented." 

Under the prevailing conditions at the 
front, it is a matter of chance who may 
apply the first Reld dressing. In many 
instances it may not be applied for hours 
and sometimes days may elapse. This 
dressing usually consists of a gauze pad 
alBxed to a bandage (a gauze compress). 
Sometimes the wound may be painted 



with iodine which is supplied to the sol- 
dier in glass ampoules. The missiles in 
most cases carry infection into the 
depths of the wound. At best the first 
aid dressing will only prevent secondary 
contamination of the wound from the 
patient's clothing and skin. The first 
dressing- has probably been applied by 
the soldier or his comrade with dirty 



Red Cross Notes 



ital thf wounded ioldier 



s ol c 



hands to a dirty skin; even if applied by 
medical officers it has not been under 
favorable conditions. 

In the trench warfare the Ambulance 
Corps can only approach at night, and 
often the clearing hospitals are miles 
distant from the point. Little or no at- 
tention can be given to the wounded un- 
til they arrive at the clearing station, 
which may be a depot platform, a shed, 
a warehouse, and in many instances it is 
simply a cleared spot in a yard. Here 
the wounded are sorted and a more or 
less improvised and hasty rc-dressing of 
the wound is performed. For large 
wounds, shrapnel shells, explosions, etc.. 
what has been called a "shrapnel dress- 
ing" has been devised. This is described 
by Dr. H. H. M. Lylc, as follows : 

"The dressing used at the French hos- 
pitals and in the field 
layer of absorbent coti 
thicker laye 
the whole 

dressings are about 3 cm. (l^i 
thick, and of different sizes. The three 
sites most commonly used are — one large 



Its of a thick 
jvered with a 
ti -absorbent cotton, 
gauze. 



enough to surround a leg once, a second 
of a size to surround the arm, and a 
third still smaller. Webbing straps widi 
buckles are used to fasten the dressings 
in place." 

The object of this dressing is that it 
can be quickly applied after the prelimi- 
jiary treatment of the wound and the 
patient can be transported to the hos- 
pital. Wherever it can be done, at this 
point there is a thorough mechanical 
disinfection of the wound with an ex- 
amination for shell fragments, parts of 
clothing, etc.; if too much time has not 
elapsed between the time of the injury 
and the dressing the operative field is 
painted with tincture of iodine and the 
bruised edges of the skin are trimmed 
away. Sometimes the wound is laid 
open and explored for shell fragments, 
pieces of clothing, etc. ; so far as possible 
the tissues are preserved. At this point 
at times the Carrel-Dakin solution has 
been used to saturate the dressings- 
From this point the patient is sent to i 
hospital where the real surgical treat- 



Red Cross Notes 



It was amid the conditions here briefly 
outlined — within hearing and sometimes 
within striking distance of exploding 
shells, surrounded by suffocating gases, 
standing at times more than ankle deep 
in mud and slush, with thousands of 
wounded men calling for immediate 
treatment, untiring and as heroic as the 
men in the trenches or behind the guns^ 
that Carrel, Wright, Grey, Morrison, and 
others have evolved their methods of 
wound treatment. Out of this has come 
the Carrel-Dakin method of wound ster- 
iliialion which is rapidly becoming 
adopted not only for use in military but 
industrial and civic practice as well. 



A NEW ANTISEPTIC GAUZE 
Boralura Gauze is an important addi- 
tion to Johnson & Johnson's hne of anti- 
septic gauzes, which includes Carbolated 
Gauze, Corrosive Sublimate Gauze and 
Iodoform Gauze. It is prepared by 
impregnating absorbent gauze with a 
specially prepared solution of borogly- 
cerid and aluminum acetate. 

Such a wound dressing was first used 
in the European war hospitals with such 
satisfactory results that American sur- 
geons became greatly interested in it. 
Boralum Gauze acts as a mild astringent, 
exsiceant and hemostatic. A dressing 
of this character has been largely used 
with good results for the following pur- 

As an application to fresh wounds, 
erpecially lacerated wounds. 

As a dressing for infected wounds. 

As a dressing for burns, old sores, 
ulcers and especially bed sores. 



As an absorbent ; 


ind deodorant for 


purulent discharges. 




As an application 


in inflamed condi- 


tions. 




As an application 


in diseases of the 



Boralum Gauze has the well known 
antiseptic properties of boroglycerid ana 
aluminum acetate. It will be found use- 
ful for a large variety of purposes, 
both in surgical and medical practice 
and undoubtedly will be adopted gener- 
ally as an excellent first aid dressing. 

The gauze may be applied either moist 
or dry. The dry gauze dipped in water 
or the Linton moist form will be found 
an efficient substitute for the well known 
acetate of lead solution, with the added 
value of boroglycerid, 

Boralum Gauze is put up in the fol- 
lowing forms : 

Yard and Five Yard rolls lii cardboard 
containers. 

One Yard and Five Yards in glass 
jars — Linton. 



114 



Red Cross Notes 



Pasteur — Lister — Carrel 



In the discussion of the methods of 
wound treatment which have arisen out 
of the war the names of Pasteur, Lister 
and Carrel have been associated favor- 
a!)ly and adversely. 

Pasteur was the prophet of the mod- 
ern era of surgery, as Lister was its 
apostle. 

Lister's methods were revolutionary 
and through them medicine and surgery 
over night leaped ahead scores of thou- 
sands of years. 

Pasteur overthrew the doctrines of 
spontaneous generation, caught the mi- 
crobes of disease and opened the grand 
vista of bacteriology. 

Lister took up the principles estab- 
lished by Pasteur and applied them to 
the repair of wounds, and from Lister's 
great conception was born modern surgi- 
cal antisepsis, from which in turn was 
evolved asepsis. 

Pasteur was a biologist. 

Lister introduced what has been 
termed the pathological era in surgery, 
the dominant idea of which is "to pre- 
vent the entrance and development of 
bacteria in wounds and to remove the 
products of infection," 

Lister used antiseptics, crudely at first. 
By evolution of methods, aseptic pro- 
ceedings arose overshadownig the early 
Listerism. Asepsis can be considered as 
but the amplification or extension of 
antisepsis; antiseptics (including heat 
and cleanliness) still being employed to 
reach the end sought by Lister. 

Now comes Carrel, who, in the eyes of 
some of his critics, has only turned out 
another antiseptic. These critics point 
to the fact that the use of hypochlorites 
as destroyers of putrefaction is very old. 
On the other hand, many who have fol- 
lowed Carrel's work claim that he de- 
serves to rank with Pasteur and Lister; 



that he has met and solved the same 
problem ; that in his methods we may be 
looking back to Lister but at the same 
time are seeing the dawn of a new era 
in surgery. 

Carrel is a physiologist — ^his surgery is 
physiologic. His aim is to conserve the 
natural resistance of the patient, "to 
turn th« tide of battle only and to leave 
the patient with his physiology as nearly 
intact as possible." 

Under the Carrel method, it is stated, 
the surgeon has control of the course of 
the wound — the entire process of repair 
is under his command. The Carrel 
method is, in its simplest form, a method 
of sterilizing wounds. "It is not depend- 
ent upon the miraculous power of any 
antiseptic or on any one feature of the 
method, but upon the combination of 
the whole." 

Carrel's followers claim that his work 
is designed "to reduce the gravity of 
mutilations, to save many lives." 

It may be in this that we are swinging 
back to Lister, but in the rebound we 
are going forward to Carrel. 

As in the case of Pasteur and Lister 
there will be many who will scoff and 
who will not believe, there will be fail- 
ures and there will be successes, but out 
of the evolution there may come such 
advancement as will warrant the linking 
together of the names of Pasteur, Lister 
and Carrel. 

IMPORTANT NOTICE 

For the present the tubes containing 
the powders for the Carrel-Dakin Solu- 
tion will be supplied only to hospitals. 
They cannot be supplied through the 
ordinary channels of trade. The appara- 
tus used in applying the solution can be 
obtained through instrument dealers or 
will be supplied by Johnson & Johnson 
on request. 



Red Cross Notes 



215 



The New Pharmacopeia and the National Formulary 



The Ninth Revision of the United 
States Pharmacopeia and the Fourth 
Edition of the National Formulary are 
now in full force and effect. 

These publications are now the legal 
standard for all drugs and medicines 
embraced therein under the National 
Food and Drugs Act as well as under 
the various State laws pertaining to 
drugs and medicines. 

We will not attempt to review these 
publications, but deem it advisable to 
call attention to a few items embraced 
therein which are directly connected 
with the line in which the Notes is 
interested. 

In regard to plasters it is to be noted 
that the revisers have introduced em- 
plastrum elasticum, or rubber adhesive, 
which they have described as "a mixture 
of rubber, resins and waxes with a filler 
of absorbent powder, mechanically 
mixed and spread on cloth or other 
fabric." This is essentially the rubber 
adhesive plaster of the market and 
which now for the first time becomes 
official. 

The resin plaster of the Pharmaco- 
peia of 1890 has been revised. 

Diachylon plaster has been retained 
with a revised formula. 

Emplastrum cantharidis has been ad- 
mitted to the Pharmacopeia. The for- 
mula is a cantharides cerate spread upon 
resin plaster. This is substantially a 
restoration of the old time method of 
making blister plasters. 

The standard strength of belladonna 
plasters is fixed as "not less than 0.35% 
nor more than 0.40% of the alkaloid of 
belladonna." The assay process is also 
given. 

Capsicum plaster has been retained. 

Charta sinapis of the former edition 
has been changed to emplastrum sinapis 



or mustard plaster and a standard has 
been prescribed. 

Emplastrum hydrargyri and emplas- 
trum saponis have been discontinued 
from the Pharmacopeia. 

In respect to plasters the National 
Formulary has retained the Camphor- 
ated Brown Plasters of the former edi- 
tions and has taken over the Soap 
Plaster of the U. S. P. VIII. 

In the Pharmacopeia considerable re- 
vision has taken place in the text relat- 
ing to absorbent cotton. It is now re- 
quired to be "free from adhering impu- 
rities, linters, and deprived of fatty mat- 
ter." Tests are given for absorbency, 
standards are prescribed for the amount 
of ash, the absence of alkali or acid, the 
absence of fatty matter and the absence 
of resins and soap. 

In both the Pharmacopeia and the Na- 
tional Formulary chapters are given cov- 
ering the subject of sterilization. 

The laboratory force of Johnson & 
Johnson were privileged as well as 
pleased to accord the revision commit- 
tee assistance and suggestions in regard 
to the subjects which come under their 
observation. 

It is probably unnecessary to repeat 
the statement that the preparations of 
Johnson & Johnson, so far as they may 
be affected by the Pharmacopeia, will be 
found to comply with the standard and 
that the materials which enter into them 
and the finished product are judged by 
the standards outlined in the Pharmaco- 
peia and the National Formulary. 



SPECIAL NOTICE 

Hospitals or surgeons who wisli to 
adopt the Carrel-Dakin method of 
wound sterilization are invited to cor- 
respond with the Scientific Department 
of Johnson & Johnson. 



216 



Red Cross Notes 



CATGUT AS A SKIN SUTURK 

Dr. William Per r in Nicolson, of At- 
lanta, in a recent paper stated that the 
use of catgut as a skin suture had been 
opposed and rejected by many surgeons 
on account of objections which could be 
overcome. It was alleged that it became 
a safe suture just in proportion as the 
integrity of the skin was not damaged by 
excessive efforts at disinfection, and that 
a skin simply prepared would handle cat- 
gut as safely as any form of suture. 
The ideal condition surrounding an op- 
erative wound was that it should be 
made under aseptic conditions and 
closed with a suture which could in the 
end be disposed of by the tissues, thus 
permitting the original dressing to re- 
main in place until healing was complete. 
Such a condition could occur only under 
the use of catgut sutures in the skin. 

The two objections urged against the 
use of such a suture had been, first, 
that the animal suture became a good 
culture medium for the bacteria in the 
skin, and second, that too early absorp- 
tion might permit the wound edges to 
gape before healing had taken place. It 
was stated that the first condition was 
largely overcome by simple cleansing of 
the skin, which consisted of washing 
with soap and water and alcohol, and 
afterward applying tincture of iodine 
upon the perfectly dry skin, and this per- 
mitted to remain for about two minutes, 
after which it was washed off with al- 
cohol. The second was overcome by the 
use of twenty-day chromic catgut. The 
size employed was the 00 under ordi- 
nary conditions, and perhaps a little lar- 
ger size, where there was more strain 
upon the wound. 

The method of closing wounds advo- 
cated was the continuous running suture 
placed at intervals of from one-half to 
three-fourths of an inch, and passing 
beneath the skin into the subcutaneous 



fat, which permitted the wound line to 
fall into perfect apposition, while at the 
same time the edges could be pulled 
apart at any point between the stitches. 
This permitted of drainage directly be- 
tween the wound edges into the dress- 
ings, doing away with the necessity for 
a drain, while the blood serum drying in 
the gauze next to the wound made a per- 
fect aseptic covering, practically imper- 
vious to air and water. Such wounds 
might be left without disturbance until 
healing was complete, when the dressing 
was removed permanently. 

All classes of wounds, including scalp 
wounds, hernia operations, breast am- 
putations, kidney operations, were closed 
thus with chromic catgut and left until 
healing was complete. The catgut em- 
ployed was that sterilized without chem- 
icals, as it had been found that those 
sutures which contained iodine and mer- 
curial salts had proved irritating to the 
tissues immediately surrounding the su- 
ture. 

In conclusion, it was averred that such 
a condition removed the dread that every 
patient naturally had of the removal of 
stitches and change of dressings, and 
did away with the danger of infection, 
however remote, which attended upon 
exposure of the wound for the purpose 
of dressing and removing sutures. 



NEW FORMS OF SUTURES 

Surgeons may now buy Blood- Vessel 
Sutures, Intestinal Sutures, Circumcision 
Sutures and Obstetrical Sutures of the 
Johnson & Johnson quality at drug stores 
and physicians* supply houses. These 
special forms were recently added to the 
list of ligatures made by Johnson & 
Johnson and they have been found time- 
ly, satisfactory and very convenient by 
operators. 

The Blood-Vessel Sutures are prepared 
according to directions of Dr. B. M. 



Red Cross Notes 



2i:f 



Bernlieim, of Baltimore, Md., of very 
fine black silk in a very fine straight, 
round needle. Each suture is sterilized 
in liquid vaseline in a tube and three 
tubes are packed in a box/ 

The Intestinal Suture consists of one 
yard of black silk threaded in a straight, 
fine needle in such a way that there is 
no doubling of the silk through the eye 
of the needle. The silk is twisted after 
being threaded through the eye. Each 
tube is packed in an individual box. 

The Circumcision Suture consists of 
thirty inches of No. plain catgut 
threaded in a regular full-curved No. 14 
needle put up in a tube. Each tube is 
packed in an individual box and one 
dozen of these are packed in an outside 
box. 

The Obstetrical Suture consists of 36 
inches of No. 3 extra-hard chromic cat- 
gut threaded in a regular full-curved No. 
4 needle put up in a tube. Each tube is 
packed in an individual box. 



HANDBOOK OF LIGATURES 

An excellent volume of information on 
the subject of Ligatures is the Handbook 
of Ligatures published by the Scientific 



Handbook. 




gsmsxsS'csss* 



Department of Johnson & Johnson. The 
Johnson & Johnson laboratories have 
made an extensive study of catgut, and 
the result of their research work con- 
ducted during the past thirty years is 
worthy of the close attention of sur- 
geons. The Handbook consists of forty- 
eight pages and is illustrated. A copy 
will be sent to any physician or nurse on 
request, with the compliments of the 
publishers. 

INSTRUCTIVE BULLETINS 

The series of Contagious Disease Bul- 
letins issued by Johnson & Johnson has 
been completely revised and brought up 
to date. These bulletins have proven a 
valuable aid to physicians and to Health 
Boards in times of epidemics and also 
as a means of conducting campaigns of 
education. They are written from the 
standpoint of the best authorities upon 
sanitation and embrace the latest and 
best known methods used by Health 
Boards to combat contagious and infec- 
tious diseases. The list of Bulletins is 
as follows: 

Diphtheria and Scarlet Fever Bulletin, 
No. 28. 

Typhoid Fever and Allied Diseases 
Bulletin, No. 29. 

Infantile Paralysis and Meningitis 
Bulletin, No. 38. 

Whooping Cough and Measles Bulletin, 
No. 40. 

Consumption Bulletin, No. 56. 

Smallpox Bulletin, No. 57. 

A set of these bulletins, together with a 
copy of "A Book With a Mission," gath- 
ered together under one cover, will be 
sent free to any physician, nurse, health 
officer or other interested person upon 
request. 

Health officers, societies and others 
who may desire to secure quantities of 
any of the Bulletins for circulation are 
invited to correspond with Johnson & 
Johnson. 



218 



Red Cross Notes 




WHAT IS FIRST AID? 

What constitutes "first aid" is a ques- 
tion of considerable importance, owing 
to the great increase of accident and 
liability insurance. So far as we are 
aware, no judicial decision has been 
handed down defining first aid, but a 
brief reference to the manner in which 
the term came into general use will aid 
one in arriving at a clear understanding 
of the scope of its meaning. 

When a person is accidentally injured, 
or suddenly taken ill, it is perfectly nat- 
ural for those about him to render any 
aid or assistance within their knowledge 
and power. The humanitarian principle 
underlying such service has been long 
recognized, and has inspired the forma- 
tion of societies of laymen, the members 
of which receive a certain amount of 
instruction in order that they may be 
better able to render such service in an 
emergency. These societies are usually 
called first aid societies, the idea being 
to give aid pending the arrival of a 
physician or surgeon. 

The importance of doing something 
to relieve the injured, and particularly 
in case of wounds to protect them from 
infection as much as possible, has caused 
most industries, railroads, etc., to pro- 
vide first aid outfits and to have certain 
of the men instructed in giving first aid 
until the patient can be turned over to a 
physician, or can be removed to a set- 
tled place, such as his home or a hos- 
pital. There can be no question that 
the service thus rendered by laymen in 
such emergencies is first aid, but now 
suppose the one nearest at hand to the 
injured is a physician, or suppose that 
someone with no other authority than 
that of trying to do something to aid 
one in trouble, summons a physician, 
does the physician give first aid, and if 
so, what is included in first aid? Should 
the patient require anything more than 
a momentary service, it is perfectly evi- 
dent that he must be removed to some 



suitable place, such as his home or a 
hospital, before any definite line of treat- 
ment can be undertaken. 

Such temporary measures, then, as 
may be used to enable or to facilitate 
the removal of the patient to some set- 
tled place where a definite line of treat- 
ment may be instituted, constitute first 
aid, whether it be given by a physician or 
a layman. The fact that the physician's 
efforts may be more intelligent than the 
layman's does not change the principle. 

When the patient has reached his 
home, or a hospital, or other place, and 
is turned over to his own physician or 
to the hospital surgeon, or wishes to 
continue the services of the physician 
first called, then first aid ceases, and 
definite treatment begins. In large 
cities many patients suffering" with in- 
juries are brought to a hospital with- 
out ever having received first aid, un- 
less the mere act of transporting them 
may be considered first aid. After such 
a patient reaches the hospital he does 
not receive first aid, but definite treat- 
ment is instituted, and by the mere fact 
that the first thing done for him is done 
at the hospital, that first thing does not 
constitute first aid. 

First aid, then, may be defined as thCj 
temporary measures carried out in 
emergencies by anyone — layman or phy- 
sician — preliminary to the institution of 
a definite line of treatment by the phy- 
sician in charge — Jour. Atner. Med* 
Ass'n. 

SIMPLICITY IN BANDAGING 

Many useless niceties of manipulation 
have been handed down to us from past 
generations of authors. Some of them 
are still scrupulously taught to students, 
and particularly to the pupils in nurses' 
training schools. They are burdensome 
to acquire and for the most part they 
are promptly forgotten or altogether 
ignored in actual practice. For example, 
who ever stops to think of the tour dc 
maitre in passing a urethal sound? 



Red Cross Notes 



219 



When a practitioner has really become 
possessed of manipulative skill he is apt 
to find himself giving up the precise 
steps laid down in the text-books and 
relying more and more on a certain 
knack that has come to him with ex- 
perience. 

Perhaps it is most noticeable in teach- 
ing the art of bandaging that traditions 
long ago ignored in practice are made 
to appear of present importance. In 
many of the current illustrations em- 
ployed mathematical preciseness of ap- 
pearance is made to predominate over 
utility and real effectiveness, so that it 
seems to be thought that the serrations 
of a reversed roller bandage must fall 
in an absolutely straight line, parallel 
with the axis of the limb, and the im- 
brication be as faultless to the eye as it 
can hardly fail to be uncomfortable to 
the patient. Regard for appearances is 
sometimes carried so far that the sight 
of a raw edge is not tolerated ; the pupil 
is required to turn such an edge in or- 
der to hide it from view„ no regard 
whatever being paid to the fact that the 
necessary folding must make the pres- 
sure upon the limb .uneven. Thus a 
"finicky" adoration of set rules leads at 
times to defeat of the purpose for 
which a bandage is applied. 

It seems to us that some of the ornate 
bandages of our forefathers might, with 
advantage, be dropped from the text- 
books, as they have virtually been 
dropped from practice. One is the 
capeline bandage, beautiful to look upon 
even when incorrectly depicted, as it 
usually is, but practically almost useless. 
Another is the stitched form of the 
many-tailed bandage, and still another is 
that variety made by tearing a broad 
piece of muslin into strips from either 
end, the central portion being left intact 
to obstruct, if not wholly prevent, the 
proper overlapping of the turns. Prop- 
erly made of independent strips any one 
of them removable and replacable with- 
out molestation of the injured limb, the 
Scultetus bandage is often exceedingly 
serviceable, but the forms that we have 
mentioned should, it seems to us, no 
longer figure in teaching the useful art 
of bandaging. Simplicity is what is 
wanted, even if zigzags have to be a 
trifle irregular and turns not scrupu- 
lously equidistant. — New York Medical 
Journal, 




J^^^^^Jy^ 



This envelope came through the mails from 
Arkansas to the Johnson & Johnson labora- 
tories without a hitch, showing that Uncle 
Sam's mail men are well acquainted with the 
soap that doctors use to sterilize their hands. 



FROM THE MAIL BAG 

The following are extracts from let- 
ters received by the editor: 

Dr. J. J. Morin, 95 North Main Street, 
Rochester, N. H. — May I trouble you 
to send me ten copies of your pamphlet 
entitled "Hygiene in Maternity"? I have 
seen a copy and I believe it to be the 
best synopsis yet published for the use 
of expectant mothers." 



R. F. Oliver, M.D., Warner, N. H.— T 
am much pleased with your Rubber Mesh 
Protective, also my patients, for they 
do not dread dressings when it is used. 



D. F. Maher — I note the finger hold 
improvement to your Synol Soap bottle. 
It is O. K. In washing, the bottle can 
now be handled with ease and safety. 
It is an exceedingly useful improvement. 



Estes Surgical Supply Company, At- 
lanta, Ga. — Though we are busy we must 
take time to drop you a line to congratu- 
late you on the last issue of the Red 
Cross Notes. This, to our mind, is the 
best one that you have ever gotten out, 
as it carries information that is of real 
service to the physician. 



Ligatures of Absolute Sterility 

There it never any doubt about the rieriUty oi catgut ligatutei txepaied m die 
JohruoD & Johiwn Ubotatorie*. Our tests, before the ligatuies leave the Ubon- 
torie*, prove their itcniity. The lesti of leading surgeons, who embed nutlioDi o{ 
Red CroM ligatures m wounded tiwue annuaDy, prove dieir sterility. 



High PicMure Steun Stailiza io lue ia Lig«tun DepartmenI oE Johmon & Johnton. 
Nofmal wotking capacky, 10,000 tube* 

In the preparation of catgu) ligatures there is immediate dianfi 
cleammg of the raw intestines after they leave the lambs. 

There is disinfection of each gut before it is twisted to make the strand.' \ 

No final confidence is [Jaced in sterile handEng. Everything in the li >\ 
line is made sterile after closing. We do not depend on operatives keefMni V 
hands and appliances sterile. We consider exposure to die air unsafe,' ha • ^ ■ 
short such exposure may be. W 

The Bacteriological Laboratory is directly connected with our Hgattre i ^ 
ment and dixecls the whole opetalion. Every step in the preparation u 
no hit-or-mis» methods are tolerated. 

Our results show absolute sterility, not merely an asejitic conditii 
sterility of the ligatures. 

JOHNSON & JOHNSON 
New &unswick. New Jersey, U. S. A, 



WarSuirgeicy Issue 

SeiioVIl ' Number Nine 

BY Uwi/H/nrvv '^-^^ 

AJ<.h»oo (7 NEW BRUNSWICK.^/ N.J..U.S.A. 



PUBLISHED 

Comihl 1918. Johuoa A JoIbiko 



'SOMEWHERE IN FRANCE" 

King George Frequently Visits the Field Hospitals, Speaks Words d Comfort and 
Cheer to the Fallen Heroes and Pays Tribute to the Modem Science of Surgery 



JotnMn'liborii».'rin ™ Nn'sTuntwidcrN! J.-'hU^ti^ uUd lo*^ flash patriotic incsS9«« 
to Ike public It hu helped in ihe Liberty Bond campaifni, the Red Crou c&mpaignB, tht 
Food ConKmtion umpaicn and all of the other cainpaigns connected with the wsi. 
Here ii ihawii ibe meMaar tbihed durina the Food Coniei^ation camnaign, a dinilir 
which called fonh ■ letter of comniendation from Herbert Hoover. As the sisn ii alxnit 
one huadnd feet lou. i' can be seen from a neat diitaoce. 



The Task-To Win the War 

Just at present the mightiest task before the American people is 
that of winning the war. Personal interests, community wants, 
Stale desires and ordinary National needs must become subservient. 
It is a task which calls for the best in every person. 

It is inspiring to know that the members of the medical pro- 
fession are in the fore ranks of every movement oi^anized to help 
win the war. Thousands and thousands of doctors have entered the 
service of the government, have gone to France with our army, have 
gone to the training camps and to the cantonments, have aided in the 
organization of the Selective Army. They are giving their time 
freely and willingly. They know the seriousness of this task. 

Johnson & Johnson are proud of the privilege of fighting shoul- 
der to shoulder with these medical men. We, too, know the demands 
of war. Our defenders must have the best surgical dressings that 
science can produce. We are supplying them. When the battlefields 
give forth new teachings of surgery that will benefit all mankind, the 
way must be made easy for their general adoption. We are showing 
the way. When campaigns are organized to raise money for the 
war's prosecution, or for the welfare of the soldiers, or for the 
education of the public along lines of food conservation and thrift, 
men and support must be given to them. We consider this a privilege. 

Service to America is the big underlying principle which governs 
all acts at the Johnson & Johnson laboratories these days, and it is 
not an impersonal service. Floating from one of our buildings is a 
service flag with thirty-five stars. We have an intense personal inter- 
est in this great task of winning the war. 



Red Cross Notes "' 

Carrel's Technique to Benefit All Mankind 

The Canel Method of Wound Sterilization Had Its Origin in Military Needs, 

But It Hat Been Extended to Civilian Practice and Will Stand 

as War's Greatest Gift to Surgery 

When Dr. Alexis Carrel taught the 
French army surgeons how to minimize 
the number of amputations and to get 
their wounded soldiers back into the 
fighting ranks quickly, he performed a 
service to all mankind. Already the 
Carrel method of wound sterilization 
has been extended to civilian practice 
and is in use in a rapidly increasing 
number of hospitals in the United States 
Mid elsewhere. In this method is seen 
the possibility of a great saving of life 
and limb in the treatment of industrial 
accidents. 

The new principle involved in this 
method of wound treatment is the grad- 
ual but complete sterilization of the 
wound by intermittent saturation by 
means of a specially devised solution of 
sodium hypochlorite. 

In the writings of Carrel himself and 
in numerous articles appearing in medi- 
cal and surgical literature the princi- 
ples involved and the method of applica- 
tion of the solution have been discussed. 
(A partial list of such literature appears 
elsewhere in this number.) It is from 
these articles that the following state- 
ments are made. 

The essential features of the tech- 
nique as applied to cases within the first 
twenty-four hours after the infliction 
of the wound — that is, the period before 
the onset of the characteristic phe- 
nomena of inflammation — are the ex- 
cision of the walls of the wound and the 
irrigation of the wounded area by the 
hypochlorite solution until the micro- 
scopical examinations of the secretions 
show that the number of organisms has 
been reduced practically to the vanishing 
point, and finally, when the sterilization 



Dr. Aloia Carrel 

has been attained, closure of the wound 
by suture. 

Apart from the technique devised by 
Carrel and the bacteriological control, 
the novelty of the method lies in the 
assembled rather than in the individual 
procedure. Carrel emphasizes the point 
that the use of sodium hypochlorite as a 
safe antiseptic in contact with the living 
tissues depends upon its adjustment. 
Alkaline solutions such as those of Ja- 
velle or Labarraque are harmful ; a 
weak solution is useless, and one above 
a certain standard is dangerous. 

Carre! has worked out a system for 
the uniform distribution of the antisep- 
tic to the entire wound by means of what 
are known as the Carrel Tubes. Very 
great importance is attached to the re- 
newal of the fluid at short intervals. If 
the treatment is begun in the pre-sup- 
purative stage the wound can be steril- 



2U 



Red GoM Notes 



tzed in from three to ten days, and a 
compound fracture in from ten to fifteen 
days or more. When suppuration has 
already set in the time required for 
sterilization is somewhat greater. 

A valuable feature of the method is 
the bacteriological control, since a 
wound clinically healthy may yet harbor 
a sufficient number of organisms to pre- 
vent healing by first intention when the 
surfaces are brought together, but when 
in the case of a wound treated from the 
outside by this method, microscopic ex- 
amination shows a practical sterility of 
the surface for two or three days, clos- 
ure may then be safely practiced. 

When there has been suppuration it 
is advisable to wait longer — up to eight 
days. The principle followed is to wait 
until the tissues have formulated a gran- 
ular layer under the continued influence 
of the antiseptic, which in itself does not 
hinder the process of repair, and then 
after the organisms have been practi- 
cally eliminated to bring the surface into 
apposition. 



As opposed to preliminary suture im- 
mediately after excision of a recent 
wound, Carrel's method seeks to avoid 
accidental infection by virulent organ- 
isms in unprotected tissues where they 
may be capable of causing more serious 
effects. On the whole the following 
summary of the method seems justified. 

It is believed that the Carrel method 
opens a new and hitherto unknown field 
to surgery. By means of this technique 
many amputations can be avoided and 
much suffering prevented. Uncertainty 
and doubt as to the best procedure on 
the part of the surgeon is removed. He 
need no longer be compelled to decide at 
once whether to amputate or run the 
risk of general infection or of g^angrene. 
Serious compound fractures, infected 
joints or abscesses, for instance, may 
safely be treated by this method with 
entire assurance that the surg^eon can 
produce a sterile wound and can main- 
tain it in that condition indefinitely or 
until circumstances, in his opinion, war- 
rant closure of the wotmd. 



Dakin Solution — Real and Unreal 



It is notable the number of mixtures 
which have been put together and labeled 
"Dakin Solution." In the medical and 
pharmaceutical press formulas without 
number have been printed. For the 
most part the authors seem to take it for 
granted that all that is required is to 
supply a solution of bleaching powder 
made alkaline. Carrel has emphatically 
called attention to these errors. Restates : 

"Experience has shown us, however, 
that in the various hospitals where the 
Dakin solution is said to have been in 
use, they often employ under this name 
various mixtures, more or less danger- 
ous. These defective solutions, which 
irritate the tissues and do not ster- 
ilize the wound, are the result of more 



or less clumsy faults in the technique. 
The worst error consists in attributing 
to Javelle Water or Labarraque's Solu- 
tion mixed with a certain proportion of , 
boric acid the properties possessed by 
the Dakin solution. Other errors creep 
up when the hypochlorite of soda solu- 
tion is prepared according to Dakin's 
method but by the use of chloride of 
lime in which the active content of 
chlorin is not known. Errors in the 
mode of preparation result in solutions 
which are irritating because they contain 
too much hypochlorite of soda, or which 
fail to sterilize the wound because the 
amount of hypochlorite of soda is too 
small, or which do not keep because they 
are charged with too much boric acid. 



Red Cross Notes 



225 



Trrors in the strength of the solu- 
tion also occur. In certain hospitals we 
have seen the solution used where the 
hypochlorite content was correct but 
whose strength was reduced by the use 
of water. Solutions thus obtained have 
a bacteriological potency far too feeble 
and they must not be used. It has been 
determined that a solution var3ang from 
0.45% to 0.50% has no irritating action 
on the tissues when used according to 
the method described. There is no danger 
when the Dakin solution pure and simple 
is accurately prepared. The procedure 
for sterilization has been calculated with 
a view to the application of a liquid pos- 
sessing the strength and qualities of 
Dakin's solution, so any alteration of the 
solution robs it of its efficiency." 

Dr. Fred H. Albee, who made a study 
of the Carrel-Dakin method of wound 
sterilization in France, states : 

**Unless a surgeon attempting this 
method is somewhat of a chemist him- 
self, or is as fortunate as Carrel himself 
in having at his disposal a competent 
chemist to assay, titrate, and neutralize 
the solution as made, and to test any 
bleaching powder used in preparing the 
solution, he is sure to have the same un- 
satisfactory experiences that many of 
the hospitals in France passed through 
when they first began to employ this 
method. 

"Bleaching lime is a commercial prod- 
uct and varies in wide limits in its 
chemical content, it is very unstable and 
varies in its active chlorin content from 
15% to Zl%, Again, sodium bicarbonate 
usually obtained in this country is com- 
posed largely of sodium carbonate and 
therefore is not useful in neutralizing 
caustic alkali. Here another difficulty 
and uncertainty arises. One needs to 
only read over carefully the directions 
drawn up by Carrel to realize the com- 
plicated process necessary to prepare the 
solution so it will always be just right. 



To avoid the above difficulties it has 
occurred to the author that if expert 
chemical work is necessary in the prep- 
aration of this solution it could far bet- 
ter be done by reliable manufacturing 
chemists and prepared in large quantities 
before it reaches the surgeon. The 
preparation when ready for use is un- 
stable and therefore cannot be put up in 
tablet form, or as far as that is con- 
cerned, in any other complete form be- 
cause chemical changes take place and 
the preparation loses its potency. 

"The discoverer's method for making 
up the solution was based on the use 
of bleaching powder (calcium hypo- 
chlorite) as the source of chlorin. This 
was combined with sodium carbonate 
and bicarbonate to form the so-called 
Carrel-Dakin solution. As has been 
stated, *in order to prepare the Carrel- 
Dakin solution of a satisfactory strength 
it requires practically fifteen hours of 
time and the services of a chemist.' " 

The process originally devised suf- 
fered from inherent drawbacks impos- 
sible to overcome under ordinary con- 
ditions in the hospital or surgical prac- 
tice. All hypochlorites, and especially 
the bleaching powder of commerce, are 
very unstable, deterioration takes place 
on exposure to the light, heat, air, mois- 
ture, rust, etc., rendering their use ex- 
tremely difficult for such a complicated 
purpose as surgery. As a consequence 
wherever the Carrel-Dakin method was 
attempted it was necessary to test its 
strength by careful assay at the time it 
was prepared — ^the process necessitated 
the most careful manipulations by a 
skilled chemist. 

Realizing that the exceptional condi- 
tions required for making this solution 
were not available to many hospitals and 
practitioners, Johnson & Johnson have 
met the situation by preparing the Car- 
rel-Dakin Solution in a way that is prac- 
tical and useful under all conditions. 



3M 



Red Cross Notes 



Making the Canel-Dakin Solution 

Chlorin-Soda Ampoules, Johnson & Johnson, Give Surgery an Improved Method 

of Making the Solution of Sodium-Hypochlorite, or 
Standard Carrel-Dakin Solution 



The Johnson & Johnson method of 
preparing the Carrel-Dakin solution 
takes advantage of the use of liquid 
chlorin, which is a chemically pure 
chlorin in its anhydrous form, com- 
pressed and liquefied. It is a clear liquid 
(pure chlorin) which will not change 
or deteriorate under the influence of 
light or heat, no matter how long it may 
be kept in storage. 

From every angle this substance pre- 
sents radical changes over the bleach- 
ing powder heretofore used. In using 
liquid chlorin the instability and the un- 
certainty to which the bleaching powder 
is heir are at once avoided. 

Under the Johnson & Johnson method 
the liquid chlorin is supplied in sealed 
glass ampoules (under process patent 
applied for by the Electro Bleaching Gas 
Company, of New York), the sodium 
salts are supplied in a tube in the exact 
quantity to prepare a definite measure 
of the solution (one liter). 

The Johnson & Johnson method in a 
few seconds gives the Carrel-Dakin an- 
tiseptic solution of the standard 
strength of between 0.45% and 0.50% 
sodium hypochlorite, free from caustic 
alkali. All settling, decantation, filter- 
ing and other manipulations to eliminate 
the lime sludge are obviated and the so- 
lution is exact and definite. All the difH- 
culties of and the necessity for an ana- 
lytical test are obviated. 

The method is at once adaptable to 
hospital and field use as well as to ordi- 
nary office practice. 

This method of making the Carrel- 
Dakin solution consists of, first, placing 
one liter of water in a glass bottle of 



not less than two liters capacity, and 
dissolving therein the soda from the 
ampoule supplied by Johnson & Johnson. 
The bottle is then shaken in order to 
dissolve the soda completely. Secondly, 
the ampoule of compressed liquid chlorin 
is inserted in the bottle by means of a 
special arrangement called an ampoule 
holder ; the bottle is covered with a can- 
vas bag and shaken violently. This pro- 
cedure breaks open the tip of the chlorin 
tube, allowing the escape of compressed 
chlorin gas into the bottle, where it al- 
most instantly dissolves in the soda solu- 
tion. The result of this reaction is a 
perfectly clear, transparent Carrel-Dakin 
hypochlorite solutibn of exact strength 
and in proper condition for use in wound 
sterilization, hence the solution requires 
no testing of any kind nor any titration. 

Inquiries have reached us as to the 
chemical conditions surrounding this re- 
action, and the characteristics, both 
chemical and physiological, of the re- 
sultant solution. As the matter is one 
of interest it is herewith stated. 

When chlorin gas is dissolved in a 
solution of carbonate of soda, there are 
produced three distinct chemicals : 

First — Hypochlorite of soda, which 
is the active ingredient sought for in 
this case. 

Second — Sodium chloride. 

Third — Sodium bicarbonate. 

The chemical formula illustrating this 
reaction in exact detail is given at the 
top of the next page. 

Note that when this reaction takes 
place in one liter of water 5 gms. of so- 
dium hypochlorite are formed — giving 
the exact strength of 0.50 per cent, hypo- 



Red Cross Notes 



227 



Johnson & Johnson Chlorin-Soda Ampoule method of preparing hypochlorite solution 
for Carrel-Dakin method of wound-disinf*ction, 4.8 gms. chlorin, 21.3 gms. sodium car- 
bonate (monohydrated). The reaction between chlorin and sodium carbonate in one liter 
of water is: 



2Na2CO,-H20' + Cl^ equals NaClO + NaCl 

Chlorin Sodium Sodium 

4.8 gms Hypochlorite Chloride 

used 5. gms. 4.0 gms. 

produced produced 



Monohydrated 
Sodium 
Carbonate 
16.8 gms. used 



2NaHCOg+HjO 

Sodium 
Bicarbonate 
11.4 gms. 
produced 



From this formula it will be seen that the reaction produces sodium hypochlorite, 
sodium chloride and sodium bicarbonate, which together with 4.5 gms. excess sodium car- 
bonate supplied in J & J[ ampoules, produce a mixture identical with that made by the 
Carrel-DaKin formula, using chlorinated lime, sodium carbonate and bicarbonate. 



chlorite required. Also the solution will 
give no red color with phenolphthalein 
powder — showing its entire freedom 
from caustic alkali as required. 

It will be seen from this that theo- 
retically the resulting solution should 
have exactly the same physiological 
effect as is the case with Carrel-Dakin 
solution made from chlorinated lime ac- 
cording to Carrel's original directions. 

The thorough tests of this solution by 
qualified experts have shown evidence 
that the material produced by the John- 
son & Johnson Chlorin-Soda Ampoules 
fulfils the theoretical conditions and is 
equal to or perhaps superior to that pro- 
duced by the older method from chlor- 
inated lime. 

Besides clinical experience in the use 
of this material, studies have been made 
with a view of determining the active 
qualifications of it in comparison with 
the solution made from the lime com- 
pound. Perhaps the most striking and 
valuable feature of the Carrel-Dakin 
hypochlorite solution is the solvent 
power which it has for dead tissue. Car- 
rel, Sherman and others point out three 
distinct features to which attention must 
be called when a discussion is entered 
into about this subject: 

First — The Carrel - Dakin Solution 
must be of definite strength in regard to 
its chlorin component; that is to say, 
between .45 and .50 per cent, sodium 
hypochlorite. 

Second — The solution must be abso- 



lutely free from caustic alkali as indi- 
cated by no red color being produced 
when a little powdered phenolphthalein 
is thrown on the surface of the solution. 

Third — Not only should this solution 
be of exact chlorin strength and free 
from alkali, but it also has another pow- 
er of great advantage in application to 
many wounds, especially those which 
have been neglected. This is its power 
to dissolve away dead tissue, thus con- 
stantly exposing deeper infections and 
clearing up the area irrigated. 

It is very highly important clearly to 
understand that the Carrel-Dakin hypo- 
chlorite solution has a distinct solvent 
effect, and that this is one of the most 
important points of superiority of this 
solution over any of the later develop- 
ments along the line of organic chlorin 
compounds. 

It must also be apparent that there 
is no hit-or-miss luck about this matter, 
but that such solvent power is due to the 
character of the solution. Sodium chlor- 
ide itself, when used as the well known 
physiological salt solution, has some 
power of this sort, and therefore the 
Johnson & Johnson laboratories have 
made a number of experiments with 
different substances for the purpose of 
illustrating distinctly the solvent power 
of various solutions on dead tissue. 

The illustration herewith presented, 
we think, is a very striking picture of the 
relative values of various irrigating and 
disinfecting solutions as compared with 
water. The descriptive matter under the 



Red Ciou Notet 



cut itself leaves little to be desired in the 
way of an explanation, and we think will 
be clear to any one reading it carefully. 

It will be noticed at once that the dis- 
solving power of Carrel -Dakin hypo- 
chlorite solution made from Johnson & 
Johnson's Chlorin-Soda Ampoules is 
equal to and probably slightly superior 
to that made by the older method. 

There is nothing freakish or unusual 
about this experiment and it may be re- 
produced by any chemist or physician. A 
hen's egg boiled for fifteen minutes and 
the white separated and pressed through 
a forty-mesh sieve gives the product 
necessary for the experiment, and it 
should be immediately weighed out and 
with as little air exposure as possible, 
transferred to the test tubes. 



In regard to the keeping qualities ol 
the solution, when made from Chlorin- 
Soda Ampoules, we are in a position lo 
state that it apparently is exactly the 
same as hypochlorite solution made from 
chloride of lime, with a slight advantage, 
if any, in favor of the Liquid Chlorin 
mixture. The keeping qualities of Cv- 
rel-Dakin hypochlorite solution, by what- 
ever method produced, are influenced 
chiefly by the temperature. In a wann 
place deterioration is quite rapid. The 
solution should be kept in well-AHed, 
tightly stoppered bottles, and in a cool, 
dark place. Under these conditions il 
can probably be kept for three or four 
weeks, without becoming weakened to 
such an extent that it is below a4S»- 
strength allowed. 



Red Cross Notes 



229 



Results Observed at Compiegne 

The Sterilization of Wounds by the Carrel Technique, as Observed at a War 
Hospital in France and Recorded in the Writings of Carrel and Dehelly 

(From the Writings of Carrel and Dehelly) 



Sterilization of a wound comes to pass 
in a different manner according as it is 
recent or old-standing and is associated 
or not with fracture. 

Wounds of the Soft Parts—From 
the month of December, 1915, the date 
when the technique was first employed 
under its actual form as at present, all 
wounds of the soft parts have attained 
surgical asepsis. They were subjected 
to secondary suture, with the exception 
of those which were very small and 
healed spontaneously, and those which 
were accompanied by so great a loss of 
substance that they could not be closed. 
Wounds, fresh, phlegmonous, gangre- 
nous, suppurating, all were equally capa- 
ble of disinfection, but the rapidity of 
the sterilization depended in a certain 
measure on the state of the infection. 

Fresh Wounds — ^When the treatment 
of wounds was commenced from five to 
twenty-four hours after the injury, ster- 
ilization was rapidly produced. Gener- 
ally microbes disappeared from the fifth 
to the twelfth day if the wounds con- 
tained no gangrenous tissue. 

Phlegmonous and Gangrenous 
Wounds — Cases arriving later at the 
hospital, with wounds already bearing 
evidence of phlegmon or gangrene, were 
treated in a similar manner. After the 
disappearance of serious infection, many 
injuries could be sutured. 

Suppurating Wounds — Wounds which 
are already suppurating when brought 
under treatment are readily disin- 
fected. Surface wounds, even when 
suppuration is abundant, are sterilized in 
a few days. Usually, when a granulated 
wound is washed with neutral oleate of 
soda and treated either with hypochlorite 
or chloramine paste, microbes disappear 



completely from the smears in two or 
three days. 

It is the same with abscess cavities. 
When a tube is placed in the cavity of 
an abscess, and the liquid can reach ev- 
ery portion of the surface of the walls, 
sterilization takes place with great rapid- 
ity. Then, by a compression dressing, 
the walls can be brought together and 
the cavity obliterated in a very short 
time. When the wound is deep and ir- 
regular, and contains necrotic tissue, 
sterilization is attained more slowly. 

We may, therefore, say that all 
wounds of soft parts respond to treat- 
ment by becoming sterile. About ninety 
per cent, of both fresh and suppurating 
wounds were closed before the twen- 
tieth day. The tests were disinfected at 
a slower rate, but all attained surgical 
asepsis. 

Fractures — Since the month of De- 
cember, 1915, we have succeeded in 
sterilizing, in a satisfactory manner, 
from the surgical point of view, all com- 
pound fractures of the smaller bones, 
short bones and fiat bones, which ar- 
rived at the hospital from five to twenty- 
four hours after the infliction of the 
injury, with the exception of fractures 
of the jaw communicating with the 
mouth. In the greater number of cases 
fractures of metacarpus and metatarsus, 
deep wounds of ankle or wrist with lay- 
ing open of several articulations, have 
been closed. Fractures of the patella 
have yielded similar results. We may 
conclude that these fractures from the 
sterilization point of view behave like 
wounds of the soft parts. In the ma- 
jority of cases, sterilization of fractures 
of the humerus, tibia and femur has 
been obtained. 



310 



Red Cross Notes 



Fractures Accompanied by Wounds 
of Joints — ^Whcn a wound was associa- 
ted with the opening of an articulation, 
results differing according to the region 
were observed. When the lesion was 
limited to synovial membranes or to the 
edges of the articular condyles, arthrot- 
omy followed by disinfection of the 
seat of fracture permitted the osseous 
extremities to be retained. Often func- 
tionaf integrity remained complete. The 
scope of simple arthrotomy could be en- 
larged, and the number of resections di- 
minished. 

In the cases of deeper osseous lesions 
and more extensive fracture of the artic- 
ular condyles, we have also been able 
to avoid resection, and to preserve all 
the movements of the articulation. 

Consequences of the Sterilization 

The suppression of suppuration and 
infection in the majority of wounds has 
important consequences for the patient, 
since it diminishes to a very iarge ex- 
tent the local and general complications 
of wounds, and consequently the length 
of treatment and degrees of final inca- 
pacity. 

Diminution of the Frequency and 
Intensity of General Complications — 
The rapid sterilization of wounds nearly 
always protects patients from those com- 
plications which lead to death. 

The general condition of the cases 
whose wounds are in a fair way to be- 
come sterilized is habitually good, even 
when the temperature is more or less 
elevated. This phenomenon was ex- 
hibited in a striking manner by those 
cases which were brought to the hos- 
pital with injuries of long standing and 
freely suppurating. Immediately the 
suppuration disappeared clinically, the 
general aspect of the patient changed. 
The first effect of the cleansing of 
wounds was always marked improve- 
ment in the general condition. 

Diminution in the Number of Am- 



putations — ^The suppression of infec- 
tion has permitted us to escape the 
lymphangitis, abscesses, and purulent 
tracks which usually accompany infected 
fractures and joint-injuries. 

In cases where the extent and com- 
plexity of the lesions do not permit rapid 
sterilization, the destruction of the 
greater quantity of the microbes and 
gangrenous tissue immediately produced 
considerable local amelioration. From 
this resulted the possibility of preserving 
limbs which presented very extensive 
lesions, or of performing conservative 
operations instead of carrying out rad- 
ical treatment. 

Amputations have been able to be re- 
duced to the cases in which the crash- 
ing of almost the whole of the portion 
of the skeleton concerned, or the de- 
struction of the vasculo-nervous supply, 
rendered impossible the conservation of 
the limb. 

The sterilization of wounds, therefore, 
permits of the preservation of nearly all 
limbs which are not rendered useless by 
the extent of destruction of osseous, 
vascular or nervous elements. 

The possibility of disinfecting injuries 
lessens the number of amputations in a 
very great proportion, since this opera- 
tion today in 70 per cent, of the cases is 
caused by septic sequelae. 

Diminution of Length and Cost of 
Treatment — The length of time treat- 
ment has to be carried on has been les- 
sened because wounds have been rap- 
idly closed and because repair of bone, 
muscle, and nerve has been effected at an 
early stage. 

Influence of Secondary Closure on 
Duration of Treatment — Wounds of 
the soft parts, both fresh and suppura- 
ting, were closed in the proportion of 90 
per cent, from the fifth to the twentieth 
day, in whatever stage of the wound the 
treatment may have been commenced. 
Wounds not sutured in this period were 



Red Cross Notes 



231 



also sterilized, though in a slower man- 
ner. If the wounds thus closed during 
the first twenty days of treatment had 
been treated by the usual methods, they 
would have needed from one to six 
months to cicatrize. By early suture a 
diminution of about two-thirds of the 
duration of treatment is obtained. 

In compound fractures of flat bones, 
short bones, and long bones such as the 
fibula, radius and ulna, sterilization 
comes about as quickly as in the wounds 
of soft parts. The saving in the length 
of time needed for treatment was, there- 
fore, very considerable, because these 
compound fractures, treated in the or- 
dinary way, often suppurated for several 
months. It is well known how slowly 
deep wounds of the tarsus, for example, 
recover when they are infected. One 
cannot estimate exactly the diminution 
produced by sterilization in injuries of 
the humerus, tibia and femur. But this 
diminution is considerable. In fact, 
compound fractures of the humerus, 
when sterilized, are often closed after 
the lapse of from twelve to twenty days, 
when similar cases treated by the ordi- 
nary methods are still suppurating after 
six, seven or eight months. It is also 
evident that the closure of compound 
fractures of the femur after fifteen, 
twenty or twenty-five days constitutes a 
great advance. 

Influence of Early Anatomical Re- 
Pairs on the Duration of Treatment — 
Sterilization of the wound allows us to 
practice operations quite early in the 
case which formerly had to be put off 
until after cicatrization was complete. 
In this manner bone-grafting or wiring, 
reunion of muscle or tendon, nerve su- 
ture, before today could only be prac- 
ticed after the healing of the infected 
wound. This cicatrization often was 
only obtained after the lapse of several 
months. Today we set about these con- 
structions as soon as the wound is ster- 



ile — from the eighth to the fifteenth day. 

Diminution of the Cost of Treat- 
ment — The expenses of treatment are 
considerably lessened, since its length is 
so much less than by other methods. The 
saving thus realized is from about 50 to 
70 per cent. Besides, the substances 
used in the treatment are not costly. 

Diminution of Positive Incapacity — 
In the greater number of injuries, 
definite incapacity is the result of in- 
fection. As the sterilization of wounds 
permits the avoidance in many cases of 
amputations and resections, there results 
a considerable diminution in the amount 
of pensions payable to the wounded men. 
Practical Value of the Method 

The results observed at Compiegne 
showed us that suppuration of wounds 
can be suppressed, and that the majority 
of wounds are capable of being ster- 
ilized and sutured. 

Conclusions 

Since our methods have been employed 
with success under the ordinary condi- 
tions of "ambulances" and hospitals, the 
sterilization of both fresh and suppura- 
ting wounds ought to be practiced almost 
everywhere. But surgeons should not 
forget that all the details of the method 
have been studied experimentally and 
established in a certain way to produce 
a certain result. Neither the prepara- 
tion of Dakin's solution may be modi- 
fied, nor the processes for mechanical 
and chemical cleansing of wounds. 

But we can be quite sure that, applied 
in their entirety, the methods just de- 
scribed will produce the desired results. 
Admitted, their use exacts more pre- 
cision and more care than old methods, 
for any approach towards technical per- 
fection requires more elaborate appa- 
ratus and a more specialized staff. But 
efforts of no great magnitude on the 
part of doctors and nurses will most cer- 
tainly yield an immense improvement in 
results. 



232 



Red Ciots Notes 



Tlie Use of the Carrel-Dakin Solution in Mouth Surgery 

(Abitnct from a mper by H. M. Beck. D.D.S.. "Dental Cosmos." October. 1917.) 



The author states that after an inves- 
tigation he was led to adopt the Carrel- 
Dakin solution in all surgical cases to 
the exclusion of other drugs including 
iodine. He states the Dakin solution is 
so much more efficient, less irritating and 
less toxic than any antiseptic we ever 
used that we feel justified in publishing 
the results of our investigations, with the 
hope that others will try it intelligently 
and scientifically, and report the results 
of their investigations. 

Use of the Solution in Pyorrhea: 
One of the diagnostic signs of pyorrhea 
is inflamed, bleeding gums about the 
necks of the teeth. Often the inflamma- 
tion is so marked and the bleeding so ex- 
cessive that thorough prophylactic treat- 
ment is almost impossible. To overcome 
this condition, have the patient rinse the 
mouth every four hours with Dakin's 
solution for two days before presenting 
himself for the prophylactic treatment. 
The operator will find, after two days' 
treatment with Dakin's solution, that 
most of the inflammation and bleeding 
has subsided, and that the heretofore 
painful scaling and polishing of the teeth 
can be effected with little or no pain. 
After the prophylactic treatment use the 
solution in a glass syringe with a plat- 
inum needle. If the solution reaches the 
point of infection without being diluted 
with saliva the flow of pus will stop in 
a few hours. If the pus persists, the 
solution has not reached the seat of 
infection and the treatment should be 
continued. In extreme cases of pyorrhea, 
where very large and deep pockets are 
found, we have used the following treat- 
ment with most gratifying results : First, 
the pocket and surrounding tissue is 
walled off with cotton rolls and kept as 
dry as possible. Then a small pellet of 
cotton is saturated with Dakin's solu- 



tion and inserted into the pocket, pack- 
ing it about the neck of the tooth and 
well down into the pocket. 

Caution : The packing should not be 
tight. This dressing should be changed 
every four hours for two days, and usu- 
ally the flow of pus will cease in two or 
three treatments. If the flow of pus 
stops, the cotton dressing should be 
omitted, but the pocket should be flushed 
out with the solution for three or four 
days. In several bad cases, where it 
seemed impossible to reach the point of 
infection with Dakin's solution, we have 
inserted a fine wire into the pocket, 
made a radiograph to ascertain the loca- 
tion and depth of the pocket, and with 
this help have succeeded in getting 
Dakin's solution to the seat of infection 
and have been able to arrest the flow 
of pus. 

Treatment Following Root Amputa- 
tion : Spray the wound every two hours 
with Dakin's solution. Use no other 
drug or treatment, and the results will 
be all that could be desired. Caution: 
Do not use more than 10 lb. pressure in 
the atomizer; a spray forced into a 
wound of inflamed tissue with 25 lb. or 
30 lb. pressure is most injurious. 

Method of Disinfecting the Mucous 
Membrane Before Hypodermic Injec- 
tions or Novocaine-Suprarenin : In con- 
ductive anesthesia or in local injections, 
spray the mouth first with Dakin's solu- 
tion, and after a few minutes wipe off 
the mucous membrane with 70 per cent 
alcohol about the area where the needle 
is to be inserted. Just before injection, 
again wipe the point of insertion with 
Dakin's solution. Caution: Do not 
scrub the part to be disinfected with 
Dakin's solution — ^simply wipe it off, 
and do not use Dakin's solution imme- 
diately before or after using iodine. 



Red Cross Notes 



Dr. Catrers Portable Field Hos; 



Canel Teaches U. S. Anny Surgeons 



In a hospital built by the Rockefeller 
Institute for Medical Research as a 
model for American base hospitals, Dr. 
Alexis Carrel has been demonstrating 
to American army and civil surgeons the 
technique of the Carrel-Dakin method of 
antiseptic irrigation of wounds. 

The hospital, which combines the best 
results of the experience of hospital 
work on all the allied fronts, is located 
at Avenue A and Sixty-fourth Street, 
New York. It is of knock-down con- 



1 can be taken apart and 
made ready for shipment in forty-eight 
hours. It is designed throughout as 
base hospitals are designed in France, 
with the exception that the problem was 
made slightly easier by the tact that 
water and sewage problems solved them- 
selves in the city. 

The only departure from the war hos- 
pital plan is a lecture room in the labor- 
atory building. Here Dr. Carrel ad- 
dresses the physicians and surgeons. 



Treatment of Acute Mastoiclitii 



Mahn relates that irrigating and drain- 
ing according to Carrel's technique 
shortened the course of treatment by 
two-thirds in his experience. It is a 
kind of bridge between the old methods 
of treatment and closing the wound at 
once after the operation, thus interpos- 
ing a useful and prudent period of 
watchful waiting before definitely sutur- 
ing the wound. 

One or two teaspoonfuls of the Dakin 



fluid are used in the irrigation every two 
hours, under a pressure of 60 or 80. He 
changes the dressings every day, and 
each time examines a specimen of the 
discharge first dried and stained with 
phenolized Ihionin 1:1,000. When the 
germs in the discharge are reduced to 
an average of one to the microscopic 
field, he thinks it is sate to suture. — 
Paris Medical Journal, April 14, VIII, 
No. 15, pp. 293-308. 



Red Cam Notes 

Supplies i<x the Carrel Treatment 



The mpparatui used in the Carrel 
method of wound sterilization has been 
described at some ImKth in surgical and 
other journals. Operators have suggest- 
ed certain modifications. Carrel himself 
has made minor changes since the intro- 
duction of the method. 



holes for a distance of two or three 

In cavities the rubber instillation tubes 
are used bare; for surface wounds the 
tubes are covered with Turkish toweling, 
or diffusers, to secure even distribution 
of the fluid. 



A {nckiBc of Chlonn'Sodi Atnpoulta. containing ihrw ampoulei 

thr« "iter's of Iht CarrelDakin lolution. Upon the lop of the 
case i$ shown an unwrapped ampoule and lube of soda salts. 



Carrel emphasizes the point that this 
is not "an irrigation process under the 
older meaning of the term," but is "an 
instillation, continuous 
application of an antiseptic by 
small rubber tubes into 
the wound." 

The paraphernalia for the process, as 
supplied by several houses, consists of a 
reservoir of a capacity of about a liter. 
To this is attached a rubber tube with a 
pinch cock. Attached to the end of the 
rubber tube is a glass distributing tube, 
which in turn is connected with the con- 
ducting or instillation tubes. The glass 
distributing tube is made so as to con- 
nect one or more instillation tubes. The 
instillation tubes are of rubber, are tied 
at the ends and are perforated with fine 



The solution has been instilled bl 
means of a syringe, but Carrel now onlj 
uses a syringe to test the ocrmeability of 
the tubes during the manipulation of the 
dressing. 

Johnson & Johnson do not supply Ifce 
apparatus, except as to the parts noted 
below. The apparatus, in whole or in 
part, may be purchased from the leading 
instrument houses. 

Following is a list of supplies for the | 
Carrel method which are made by J(An- 
son & Johnson : i 

Cklorin-Soda Aufoules— One ampoule of I 
liijuid chlorin and one tube of sodium salts con- 
prepare one liter o£ Carrel-Dakin solution o' ' 
standard strenEth— .45% to .50% sodium hyP°- i 
chlorite. These items are supplied only in »; : 
conUining three ampoules of liquid cblorin i»l I 
three lubes of sodium sails (sufficieni for tf" 
liters of Carrel-Daldn solution). Price, l« , 
set, tl.2S. 



Red Cross Notes 



elmg. The low( 
lowering ready I 



s made of Turki 



H Tubes— These 
the perforated 
wrhent Turkish 



ERs— Made of special Turkish t 
ifaclured for the purpose. Prei 
■■ twelve inches long, ready for i 



-As designed by Dr. Car- 
lie sterility is determined. 



Liteiature of the Canal Method 



The following is a list of the more im- Sane. F. D^ and De* 

.,,._, , , od of Wound Irto*.-..-". 

portant articles wh:ch nave appeared in Carrel Ambulance. Gi 

reference to the Carrel method of wound ul^^^^^^^tH' ."echnL^ue^^^ 

sterilization. It is here printed to assist carried out by use of Dakin'i 

those who may desire to further investi- 
gate the subject: _ __ _ ___ 

S«KE», F. D. The Trealment of Wounds Ala., 1916, ix, 10S6-1062. 

(Carrel-Dakin method). Guy's Hosp. Gai., Describes the conditions existing in England 

Lond., 1917. xxxi. 44-18. and France in the hospiuls a) Ic saw them 

technK'ue"of*lreatment''o'f"oSI!ds an'd^one in- surgeSns^'bave 1o ^"e"' is ''that'^f "infection! 

juries In the Lycee Pasteur BufFon. Paris, by About 90 to 9S per cent, of all wounded ad- 

Dr. Chutro, who uses the Carrel-Dakin method. mitted to base hospitals are infected. The 

He, bowerer, adopts a different baclerio logical number of amputations in both England and 

routine. Dr. Cbulro's success has been remark- France is territfc. Gives a history and descrip- 

able, says the writer. Since Jan. 1. 1916, he tion of the Carrel-Dakin method of wound ster- 

they were unavoSab^e on' acMunt of tub 



2H 



Red Cross Notes 



Ambulance at the Prcmt Me<L Rcc., N. Y., 

1916. xc, 791. 

Deacrtbca and illustrates the technique of the 
Carrel method, with the apparatus needed. 
SiiUMAN. W. O'N. The Carrel Method of 
Wound Sterilization. Surg. Gynec. and 
Obst., Chicago. 1917, xxiv. 255-274. 
The most comprehensive and complete de- 
scription of the Carrel- Dakin method published 
in the American journals. It describes the 
method, technique, composition of the Dakin 
solution and toe Carrel apparatus for the 
administration of the solution, also statistics, 
cases and illustrations showing results, etc. 
W., (H. C.) The Carrel-Dakin Method of 
Wound Sterilization. Colorado Med., 
Denrer, 1917, xiv, 96. 
Refers to the numerous papers in medical 
journals on the Carrel-Dakin treatment, espe- 
cially the paper by Dr. Wm. O'Neill Sherman. 
The paper speaks of the difficulty of making 
the Dakin solution, and gives a list of "Don'ts" 
to be observed in regard to it. 
Di Nancibdb, C. B. G.. and Kraft, R. W. 
Remarks and Clinical Reports on the Use 
of Dakin's solution. J. Mich. M. Soc, 
Grand Rapids, 1916, xv. 314-317. 
A clinical address, gives briefly the reports of 
five cases. While acknowledging the rapidity 
with which pus is diminishea with the Dakin 
solution, he nevertheless is personally skeptical 
as to the part played by chemicals in wound 
treatment 

Da. Barkktt, M.T. The Dakin-Carrel Anti- 
septic Solution. Dental Cosmos, Phila., 

1917, lU, 446-448. 

Recites some experiments he made with the 
Dakin solution in the treatment of pyorrhea 
and met with good results. He then speculates 
as to what influence the free chlorin might 
have on the calcium of the tooth structure, 
gold fillings, etc 

GooDNOw, MiNNiB. The Carrel Tube for Wet 
Dressing. Trained Nurse, etc., N. Y., 1917, 
Iviii. 87. 

Brief description of the method of using the 
Carrel tubes in the war zone for keeping 
dressings continuously wet. Speaks briefly ox 
the treatment of gan^ene; also a few points 
as to dressing of septic wounds. 
Carkel on the Treatment of Wounds. Mil. 
Surgeon, Wash., D. C, 1917, xl, 479-485. 

Brief address delivered by Dr. A. Carrel be- 
fore the U. S. Army Med. School, Wash., D. 
C, in which he describes the evolution of the 
treatment of wounds and its progress from the 
beginning of the present war to the present 
time. lie also describes the condition and 
methods employed in the various hospitals, the 
general organization for the care of the wound- 
ed near the lines. While more than 90 per 
cent, of the patients coming in from hospitals 
were infected it was found that by using proper 
technique wound infections can be almost en- 
tirely controlled and that pus can be eliminated 
completely from the hospitals. 
CAJtRBL (Alexis) and Dehelly (G). Le Traite- 
ment des Plaies Infectees. 8 Paris, 1917. 
177pp., 78 illus. 

The most important contribution on wound 
treatment by the Carrel-Dakin method yet pub- 
lished. The book is well illustrated by dia- 
grams and contains an explicit statement of 
the principles and results of the treatment. The 
essential features of the technique are fully set 
forth. Special emphasis is laid upon the de- 
tails; according to tne authors, even experienced 
surgeons require several weeks' experience in 
the method in order to become familiar with 



its working. All these essential details in con- 
nection with the Carrel tubes, as well as the 
application of the Dakin solution, are described 
fully. (A translation of this work is being 
published in this country. Hoeber.) 
The Treatment of Infected Wounds; the Car- 
rel-Dakin Method. Brit. M. J., Lond., 
1917^ I, 264, illus. 
A review of the Carrel-Dakin method con- 
densed from the 177 p. pamphlet by Carrel and 
Dehelly (see foregoing reference). 
La Methode de Carrel Dans les Plaies de 
Guerre. J. de med. et de chir.. Par., 1916, 
Ixxxvii. 469-482. 
An exhaustive article in which the author 
reviews the history of the growth of the Carrel 
treatment, gives a report relative to a series 
of 121 wounds treated by Carrel's method. 
FiRSsiNCER, N., and Moiroud, P. Etude Bio- 
logi(]ue de Deux Plaies Gangreneuses 
Traitees par la Methode Carrel-Dakin. 
Paris Med., 1916-17, xxi. 242-248. 
A biological study of two cases of gan- 
grenous wounds treated by the Carrel-Dakin 
method. Detailed reports of the cases arc 
given in full from day to day, with various 
tables showing results of laboratory examina- 
tion. 

PiBRUcci, G. La Cura Delle Ferite di Guerre 
con I'Antisettico Carrel-Dakin. Gior. di 
Med. Mil., Roma, 1917, Ixv, 49. 
Brief paper in which the author comments 
favorably upon the Carrel-Dakin method of 
sterilization of wounds. He states that in 1,415 
cases of wounds treated by him the resiilts 
were eminently satisfactory. 
Clbruont. Treatment des Plaies par de Me- 
thode de Carrel. Presse Med., Par., 1916, 
xxiv, 180. 
Comment on the favorable results obtained 
hy use of the Carrel method. 
Cjibson, Chas. Langdon. The Carrel Method 
of Treating Wounds. Annals of Surgery, 
Sept., 1917, 262-279. 
Observations made during a visit to the Car- 
rel and other hospitals in Prance, and his per- 
sonal experience at the New York Ho^ital, 
with an epitome of Carrel and Dehelly's book. 
Red Cross Notes, Series VIIj No. 8 — ^Johnson 
& Johnson, New Brunswick, N. J. Birth 
of a New Era in Surgery. 
Technique of Carrel-Dakin method of wound 
sterilization; history of the method, with illus- 
trations of use in Carrel's hospitals in France; 
observations on technique by various writers. 



For Busy Physicians 

Busy physicians will find concise facts 
about blistering in "Blistering Time 
Table," a twenty-four page booklet issued 
by the Scientific Department of Johnson 
& Johnson. Among the chapters are: 
"'Hints on Blistering," "Two Ways of 
Dressing Blisters," "Cautions About 
Blistering," "Strangury," "Flying Blis- 
ters." A copy will be sent free upon 
request. 



— Write for Physicians' Catalog. 



Red Ciois Notes 



A Practical Dressmg 

{By D. WlblWr Evans, M.D., Scranlon, Pa.) 

It has been my practice for several 
years, in dressing Laparotomies or Celi- 
otomies, to place two-inch adhesive strips 
in tfiree sections. The upper one is 
placed one inch below the ensiform proc- 
ess across the abdomen; the second 
across the umbilicus, and the third strip 
one inch above the shaved pubes. 



and ten inches long. I place the upper 
one, lapping the edge of the dressing one 

inch and the abdomen one inch. This 
secures the upper edge of the dressing 
iirtnly. I likewise attach a strip to the 
lower edge of the dressing and on the 
pubes one inch. This also secures this 
portion of the dressing and they both 
prevent the hand-borne infection, with 
which we are all so familiar. 
The c. 



237 

to his wound, and thereby contaminate 
and infect himself. The bellows action 
upon respiration is prevented; in so do- 
ing air and cuticle, etc., cannot reach the 
wound. 

My friends are wont to call this the 
"Evans Sealer." I never had the pleas- 
ure of seeing any one else use them and 
so I gladly do what I can to contribute 
my mite to the cause of humanity and 
better surgery, and especially to lighten 
the burden of the surgeon, as well as to 
save his patient from skin and occasion- 
ally deeper infection. I strongly advo- 
cate its adoption and use by all who use 
occlusive abdominal dressings. 

The cut from photograph will give the 
reader the idea, even without reading 
the description. 



Hygiene in Maternity 

"Hj^iene in Maternity" is a forty- 
eight page book which many physicians 
and nurses like to place in the hands of 
expectant mothers. 

" 'Hygiene in Maternity' is just like all 
of your books and preparations, simply 
the best on the market, and I make no 
hesitation in saying so to my patients," 
writes L. Dean, of 17S New York Av- 
enue. Brooklyn, N. Y. 

"This book gives expectant mothers 
cheer and encouragement, especially first 
baby cases," writes C. C. Meacham, M.D., 
of Bernalillo. N. M. 

Johnson & Johnson will send a copy to 
any physician or nurse requesting it, 
and, it desired, will supply a quantity for 
distribution among obstetric patients. 
There is no charge for this service. 



You Need Thij Catalog 

The Physicians' Descriptive Catalog is 
a 125-page hook containing terse descrip- 
tions and accurate illustrations of the 
principal Johnson & Johnson products. 
Every physician should have a copy 
handy. Sent free on request. 



23« 



Red Cross Notes 



ol Results Surprise Surgeons 



Treated with this New Bum Dressing, Mild Bums Are Healed with Singular 

Rapidity and Severe Cases Recover — It Is One of the Good 

Things that Have Come Out of the War 



Gradually we are coming to know that 
certain good things are coming out of 
the great war. Among these good things 
is probably the most successful treat- 
ment of burns that has ever been found. 
Those who have had experience with 
the treatment of burns will find it hard 
to credit the statement that with this 
new form of burn dressing we are able 
to keep large burned surfaces clean dur- 
ing the process of healing, and to dress 
the burn with almost no pain to the pa- 
tient. It seems magical to see an ex- 
tensive and deep burn healed without 
any contraction of tissue, and almost 
without any scarring. 

Yet these things are true of cases 
treated with Redintol, the new burn 
dressing. 

Redintol is a product of Johnson & 
Johnson, and consists of a mixture of 
paraffine and resins having dissimilar 
melting points. It is supplied in a solid 
brown wax -like cake, and in appearance 
looks like a cake of maple sugar. 

Redintol has been used in hospitals 
and private practice for a considerable 
length of time. Surgeons have been 
surprised at the results. They have 
found that the dressing is easy to apply, 
that pain is eased almost immedia-tely, 
that the dressing can be used without 
disturbing the wound, and that the heal- 
ing is rapid. 

How TO Apply Redintol 

Redintol is applied to the tissues at a 
temperature of about 140 to 150 degrees 
F. In other words, when melted until 
it flows it is ready to apply. It is ap- 
plied to the burned surface, being spread 
over the surface gently by means of a 
camel's hair brush. Over the wax glaze, 



while still warm, a thin layer of absor- 
bent cotton is applied. This layer of 
cotton is made by splitting a sheet and 
cutting into convenient size pieces. The 
layers of cotton are gently forced into 
the glaze, and over the layers of absor- 
bent cotton another coating of melted 
Redintol is spread. 

(Ordinary absorbent cotton may be 
used, but Johnson & Johnson prepare a 
special form of sheet cotton for use 
with Redintol.) 

When the coating is complete it may 
be covered with the usual g^auze, cotton, 
or lint dressing, held in place with a 
bandage or adhesive plaster. 

In extensive burns for the first few 
days the shell is to be removed once in 
twenty-four hours. After a few days a 
dressing can be left in place for a longer 
period. 

Before applying the Redintol, the sur- 
face of the wound is to be made dry. 
This can be done by the use of absor- 
bent cotton, gauze, blotting or filter pa- 
per, or a fan. There are, however, in 
the market electrical driers, such as the 
apparatus used for drying the hair. 

There has also been devised a special 
apparatus for the application of Redin- 
tol, in the form of an atomizer, so made 
as to blow a fine spray of the melted 
Redintol upon the burned surface. But 
while these forms of apparatus are use- 
ful, especially where there are frequent 
cases to be dressed, they are not essen- 
tial. 

After a few days* treatment, upon re- 
moval of the dressing, a definite border 
of rapidly proliferating tissue will be 
found, and if there are any undestroyed 
cells, islands of new skin will appear as 



Red Cross Notes 
Redintol Bum Diesiings 

Photograpfas tshcn from actual cases in on; of th« largE n 



Melted R«ditilal i 
sently dabbing witho 



Ttae whole is then ci 



s applied. The whole ii 
Li!i.al bandage dressing. 



94Q 



Red Ciois Notes 



grayish-white spots dotting the surface. 
If the bum has left portions of epi- 
dermal tissue, the Redintol method of 
treatment will s^ve it and favor its 
rapid repair. Under the dressing new 
sldn begins to form immediately, and in 
an exceedingly short space of time the 
entire surface begins to be covered. 

Redintol has also been found useful 
in granulating wounds, in the .treatment 
of chilblains, frostbites, bruises, excor- 
iations, and in other conditions of raw, 
denuded and inflamed areas. 

Nothing Gained by Grafting 
The following is an extract from the 
report of one of the users of Redintol : 
"Bums healed with rapidity; consti- 
tutional symptoms rapidly abated; pain 
was reduced to a minimum; scarring 
seemed to be obviated, or at any rate 
was not apparent; the bums healed so 
rapidly, with healthy granulations, that 
there appeared to be nothing gained by 
grafting; patients were singularly free 
from sepsis." 

The conclusion arrived at was that 
under the treatment mild burns healed 
with singular rapidity, and severe cases, 
that would have been unlikely to recover 
by the ordinary methods of treatment, 
recovered. 

How Redintol Is Supplied 
Redintol is supplied in one-pound 
cakes, this being the most convenient 
form for hospital and general use. It is 
also supplied in what is known as Indi- 
vidual Redintol Burn Dressing for use 
in first aid work, in the home, factory 
or shop, for immediate application. 

The Individual Redintol Burn Dress- 
ing consists of a small cake of the dress- 
ing, with a cotton applicator for spread- 
ing it over the surface of the burn. 
Accompan3ang this is some sheet cot- 
ton to apply over the first glaze. 

Redintol in its various forms may be 
procured from the drug trade and from 
dealers in surgical supplies. 



BABVS FIRST DRESSING 

JoluMOB & Jobmoo Offer a Complete (M, 
Reeommcnded by tbe Nadoaal f^mm&<yf (oc 
dM PkercBtion of BKadaen, and Fdfilfii^tlie 
Requireinents of State Laws 

Johnson's First Dressing for Infants 
is a much-needed article. It is a com- 
plete outfit containing material for 
cleansing, tying and dressing the umr 
bilical cord and also material for cleans- 
ing the mouth, nose and eyes, including 
an ampoule of nitrate of silver solution 
for instillation into the infant's eyes 
when necessary. 

The need of such an outfit requires no 
argument. In the best of families ma- 
terial for these purposes is seldom at 
hand when wanted. In ordinary fam- 
ilies and in cases where the birth is in 
charge of a nurse or midwife no material 
of this kind is provided. 

For the lack of proper material at the 
time of birth tetanus and other infec- 
tions follow, but of still greater moment 
is the appalling danger of blindness from 
ophthalmia neonatorum. The statement 
is made that "from one-quarter to one- 
third of the pupils admitted to the 
schools for the blind have lost their 
sight from infection acquired at birth 
or during the first ten days of life, and 
there are innumerable other cases of 
those who are partially blind from the 
same cause. 

"The responsibility for this appalling 
condition rests with the nurse, midwife 
or physician who had charge of the con- 
finement." — F. Park Lewis, M.D. 

This outfit meets all these needs. It 
also fulfills the requirements of the 
growing number of States which require 
the use of prophylactic measures in cases 
of babies* sore eyes at the time of birth. 
Nearly thirty States require cases of 
babies' sore eyes to be reported to the 
Board of Health; eighteen require or 
recommend prophylactic measures. 



Red Crou Note* 



This outfit also meets the rccommend- 
atton of the National Committee for the 
Prevention of Blindness. Many med- 
ical organizations have recommended 
the use of such an outfit. 

The Johnson's First Dressing Packet 
contains the following items : 



One envelope containing two stwitited tapes 
for tying (be umbilical cord. 

Two gauze pads (one wilb perforations) for 
dreEsing the umbilical cord. 

One packase boracic acid for cleansing and 
luiinfeclillg the umbilical cord and eyes. 

Two nnall gauze padi for cleansing ''-- 



Tbree inecM of 



One flannel binder for holding the umbilical 

Three safety pina. 

One miniature package of Jofanson'a Toilet 
and Babjr Powder for use after Ibe infant's first 
batb. 

One miniature boitte of Synol Soap for 
cleansing the hands, balh etc 

One cbart for mailing the birth record 

Full directions accompany each item 
and a circular in each packet gives in- 
structions to the nurse or midwife. 



Diessings Used in the Great Wai 



Tbese illustrations show some of the tipes of dreswoKS preitared for the use of the 
Army and Navy Expedilionarr Forces. A feature of the present-day Army Dressings 

tion. As. for example, the upper left packaite is one ounce of absorbent cotton; the 
middle package left consists of gauze sponges slightly coRiprcBsed and packed in a carton; 



e of tl 









bandage, gauj 
Wounds. Th 
gauie bandag' 
at once to th< 
being suppliei 



rmy Packet, compressed, 
a pulled off. The packet 



for ban. 
Mice purposes. Center lower, 
Dsed m metal container sealed 
:he packet upon the belt; by the 

ipress, with four-tailed bandage, one 
ir laree wounds and is lo he applied 
leading types of bandages which are 



Red CroM Notei 



From the M«il Bag 
The following are extracts from let- 
ters received by the Editor : 

Dr. Edward Preble. 519 West 143d 
Street, New ^'ork City — A prominent 
surgeon told me the other day that your 
delineations of the Carrel-Dakin method 
of wound sterilisation as shown in Red 
Cross Notes, Special War Issue, are the 
best and practically the only ones he 
has seen of the operation of the Carrel- 
Dakin methods. 

Dr. G. I. Hogue, Major, Medical 
Corps, Wisconsin National Guard, Mil- 
waukee, Wis. — Please send me thirty- 
five copies of Special War Issue of Red 
Cross Notes, as I wish to distribute them 
to the members of the Hospital Corps, 
Wisconsin National Guard. I wish to 
congratulate you on this splendid edi- 

William H. Price, M.D., 801 Prospect 
Place, Brooklyn, N. Y.— Would it be 
possible for you to let me have sixty 
copies of the Special War Issue of the 
Red Cross Notes to place one in the 
hands of each of my Sanitary Red Cross 
Detachment. These men are preparing 
for medical service in our army and 
navy and I feel they will profit by a close 
study of this issue. 

Dr. Lillian Shields, Union Savings 
Bank Building, San Francisco, Cal.^ 
Have just finished reading the Special 
War Edition of Red Cross Notes. It is 
fine. I have always used your goods as 
far as possible. I am glad you are 
going' to supply the government, for that 
means they will get the best of every- 

Dr. J. Ernest Dowdy, Winston-Salem, 
N. C— Your Special War Issue of Red 
Cross Notes is the best yet and you are 



to be congratulated on giving these con- 
crete facts to the medical profession. 
Believe me to be a regular user of your 
products. 

Dr. Frank B. Keleher, 115 Sixth Av- 
enue, Brooklyn, N. Y. — Interesting facts 
in condensed form as shown in the War 
Issue of the Red Cross Notes are verj' 
valuable to a teacher. 



Dr. A. H. De Lano, Lone Tree, Iowa— 
Your Special War Issue of Red Cross 
Notes seems to be full of diamonds. 

Dr. E. M. McKee, Lexington, Ky.— I 
thank you for the Red Cross Notes. | 
They are of value to all. 

Dr. C. L. LeMar, Osceola, Neb.— The 
Special War Issue of the Red Cross 
Notes is fine. 

Dr. M. E. Eastman, Weaverville, Cal. 
— I have perused the pages of the Spe- 
cial War Issue of the Red Cross Notes 
with great interest and much benefit 



First Aid 



"The package of First Aid Handbooks 
has been received and the commanding 
officer of this camp, Lieutenant Sloan, 
and the men of the camp join me in 
thanking you for the same," writes 
Harry F. McGuire, Medical Corps, First 
Pennsylvania Infantry, U. S. A., De- 
tachment Medical Headquarters, Camp 
Sloan, Pequea, Pa. "I wish to state tiiat 
the books have helped the men wonder- 
fully in mastering the complex work of 
first aid which I am trying to leach 

"I consider your First Aid Handbooli 



Red Cross Notes 



I valuable little pamphlet which could be 
used to advantage in training enlisted 
personnel tor the Medical Department of 
Ihe U. S. Army," writes the Surgeon 
Major in charge of a Reserve Officers' 
Training Camp. 



work of art," writes J. W. O'Connor, 
U.D., Chief Surgeon of the Denver & 
Rio Grande Railroad Co. 



Synol Soap which can be relied upon to 

the same extent. 

"The surgeon or obstetrician with this 
preparation handy, can in an emergency, 
fall back upon an antiseptic agent of 
fixed value— a factor, I may add, of 
priceless import in certain contingen- 
cies." 



Synol Soap in England 

Some time ago the Kingdom of Great 
Britain established an embargo against 
the importation of all soaps. Unfortu- 
nately, this included Synol Soap, which 
has become firmly established in the 
medical and surgical practice. This ac- 
tion caused a large number of letters to 
be written to the authorities asking that 
the embargo be raised. The following is 
an extract from a letter of an eminent 
specialist connected with several of the 
hospitals in London : 

"I understand that Synol Soap can no 
longer be imported from America to this 
counlry. 

"I desire as a professional man and a 
Urge personal user of Synol Soap to ex- 
press to you my sense of extreme regret 
at this decision. Synol Soap must be 
considered from the medical point of 
view an absolute necessity, and tor these 
fcasons: (A) It is a valuable antiseptic 
agent for dressing wounds. (B) It is a 
cleanser of the first order, i. e., it can be 
used in the operating theatre prior to 
operations, either for preparing the sur- 
geon's hands or the proposed patient's 
ikin, (C) It is a powerful deodorant 
when used for general ablution, and, 
finally, either alone or miscibte with 
water, produces a non-irritating and 
abundant lather which serves to cleanse 
md purify any article, flannel, linen or 
wtlon fabric, etc., submitted to its action. 

"After very extensive trial I have been 
unable to discover any substitute for 



A Head Bandage 

Dr. Thomas E. Shea, of Twenty-third 
and Parrish streets, Philadelphia, Pa., 
has suggested the head bandage here 
illustrated. 



The base bandage passes around the 
circumference of the head, either 
shaved or covered with hair. When 
placed over hair it may be removed by 
soaking with coal oil or some solvent 
of plaster coating. 

Note the anchors to which is fastened 
the tape which passes over the dome of 
the head and holds the dressing in place. 
Any convenient number of anchors may 
be used. 



A RedintiJ Citcular 

A four-page circular describing the 
technique of using Redintol, the bum 
dressing, will be sent to any physician, 
on application to Johnson & Johnson, 
New Brunswick, N. J. 



Ideal Surgical Catgut 



The Aeml cmtept tiffatnn, rargeonfl will agree, is the perfect cord, made of 
hMlthy, nonnkl animal tiisue; Bt«rilized, aaeptic and unchanged in charqctn; 
absorbable without reaction or disturbance of wound-healing process. ■ ' 

Thirty years of atudy in the Johnson ^Johnson laboratories has deraon- 
atrated that perfect surgical catgut can only be produced when the separatim 
and manipulation of the material is carried on in its entixety with a full pn- 
aideration for the use to which it js to be put. 

The aame methods that prevail in the preparation of tennis racquet gA 
and touaical stringa cannot produce the ideal surgical catgut. 



Johnson & Johnson are the only manufacturers , 
who control the preparation of cat^t ligaturey 
from the moment the animal tissue is removed 
from the lamb until the finished ligature is packed 
and sterilized. 

Johnson & Johnson have produced ideal catgut. 
The surgeon can use it with complete confidence. 
■ An excellent volume of information on the 
subject of Ligatures is the Handbook of IJ«8- 
tures. The Johnson & Johnson Laboratories 
"^ have made an extensive study of catgut, and 
thfe result of their research work is worthy 
the clos^ attention of surgeons. A copy will 
be sent free on request. 

Johnson & Johnson 

New Brunswick, N. J., U. S. A. 



Handbook 

LlGATUI^ 



PEACE- ISSUE 

Series Vli Number Ten 

"Red ^ss^ 

puBusHED Bv (Uyyvn/yovv ^^-^folvnAovi/ 

CopTiitl»I9t9.]gliH>^AJthiwii £7 NBW BRUNSWICK-C/ N.J.,U.S.A. 



■^ —Copt/righted bu Committee on fttWio jTUbrmotion 

THE RECONSTRUCTION OP AMERICAN SOLDIERS 
The aim of the Surgeon General is the reconstruction of American soldiers, 
disabled in action, "to the point of maximum functional restoration both mental 
and physical." Healing of an amputated and fractured member ia not in itself 
sulScient. Usefulness must be returned to the mained part so that the loss may 
w to a great measure negatived. This is now known as functional restoration, 
Md the new science, if it may be called that, is being developed more and more 
m Army hospitals. 



Catgut Sterility Assured 

WHEN you are made responaible for the life of die patient oq the 
operating table you are never confronted with an annoying doubt 
as to the sterility of the catgut you are using, if you have 
^)ecified Johnson & Johnson catguL 



in Ligature Deputmoit of Jolutiini Ac Jotunon 
igc^Mcily, 10,000 tuba 

By handling in our own laboratories every step of the process of 
sterilization, from the minute the intestines axe removed from the sheep 
until the final sterilization in the sealed tubes or envelopes, and then sul>- 
mitting samples of each finished batch to a bacteriological check test, we 
are sure that we are sending out catgut that is sterile. 

Thirty years of experience in preparing catgut ligatures has impressea 
upon us the advantage of the initial controfof the strand. The sterihty, . 
the strength and the elasticity of the cord depend largely upon how it is j 
handled from its inception. 

The name of Johnson & Johnson u[>on a tube or envelope of catgut i 
is a guarantee that the ligature is sterile, flexible, strong and free fiom 
reaction. 

JOHNSON & JOHNSON, New Brunswick. N. J.. VSk j 



RED CROSS NOTES 



COPYHIGHT 1919 DY JOHNSON & JOHNSON 



Series VII NEW BRUNSWICK, N. J. Number Ten 



Fred B. Kilmer, Editor 

This publication is issued from the laboratories of the publishers with the intent to 
give, in brief, items of interest and reports of original research along the line of the 
particular branches of the art in which they labor. 

Persons receiving Red Cross Notes will confer a favor by notifying the publishers of 
any inaccuracy in the address on the wrapper and of any change of their address. 



Healing the Wounds of a War-Marked World 

Just as Americans threw themselves into the war with an aban- 
don and enthusiasm that brought victory to the forces of democracy 
sooner than was generally thought possible, they are now ready, at 
any cost of personal sacrifice, to serve humanity and posterity in 
these days of reconstruction. 

The poisonous wounds of war are being flooded with that 
powerful antiseptic, peace; the war-marked world is showing re- 
markable vitality, and the peace doctors hope to carry it through the 
crisis and restore it to its usual activities within a short time, and 
without the usual scarring. 

This splendid spirit of Americanism has been exemplified by no 
class better than by the American doctors and nurses. Their part 
in the war furnishes a brilliant chapter in the conflict's history. For- 
getting all personal interests, they responded to the call of humanity. 
Some of them made the supreme sacrifice. 

Nor was all the service performed upon the battlefield. The 
doctors and nurses who remained at home to assume the larger re- 
sponsibilities created by their lessened ranks did much to sustain the 
nation. Their wonderful work during the influenza epidemic will 
stand as one of the heroic deeds of the war period. 

It was the great privilege of Johnson & Johnson to stand shoul- 
der to shoulder with the profession on the firing line and at home. 
We gave of our staflf three killed, some wounded and several miss- 
ing in action. We met the needs of the Army, Navy, Red Cross and 
Allied forces with hundreds of millions of bandages and thousands 
of miles of gauze and adhesive plaster. 

It required day, night and Sunday work to perform the task, but 
our army of loyal workers, equal to the occasion, kept our enormous 
laboratories throbbing at high speed. It may be truly stated, and in 



248 



Red Cro88 Note8 



no boastful spirit, that without the facilities of Johnson & Johnson 
the United States and Allied forces would have been unable to obtain 
surgical dressings in sufficient amount to meet their requirements. 

The war activities also greatly increased the demands on the 
civil hospitals, and their calls for supplies were met. To do it we had 
to abandon certain goods entirely and to make all our business sub- 
servient to the needs of the Government and the hospitals. 

Freight, express and postal embargoes ; raw material, coal and 
labor shortage, and advancing costs helped to complicate the situa- 
tion, and dealers were not able to keep their stocks complete. But 
with the signing of the armistice things began to move differently 
and it will not be long before normal conditions will prevail and the 
stocks of dealers will be replenished. 

We want to express our thanks for the loyal co-operation we 
have received from the medical profession and the hospitals of the 
land during these dark days of the war. We rejoice with them that 
America is a greater nation because of the war and that the arts of 
medicine and surgery have been strengthened by the experience of 
war, and we know that they will appreciate the knowledge that war 
has greatly increased our facilities for taking care of their needs in 
the future 



The Van Horn and Sawtell Department 



Johnson & Johnson have taken over 
the well-known firm of Van Horn and 
Sawtell, of New York, and have made 
it the Van Horn and Sawtell Depart- 
ment of Johnson & Johnson. This con- 
solidation means the continuation of a 
policy of progress, a gratifying increase 
of laboratory facilities and the addition 
of Mr. E. T. Sawtell and Mr. Alfred 
Van Horn to the personnel of the John- 
son & Johnson organization. 

The union of two such American 
firms — each proud of its reputation and 
the part it has played in promoting the 
quality and reliability of sterilized sur- 
gical dressings — will mean a great deal 
to thoughtful medical men, who realize 
the extent to which the successful prac- 
tice of medicine and surgery depends to- 
day on the co-operation and good faith 
of the well-equipped manufacturer of 
^^1 and surgical supplies. 



The specialties of Van Horn and Saw- 
tell will continue to be supplied and mar- 
keted in the same form, character and 
quality that the users of these various 
products have come to expect and appre- 
ciate. This applies not only to their 
sutures and ligatures, but also to their 
favorably known specialties, which are: 

K-Y Lubricating Jelly. — A remark- 
ably useful and cleanly surgical lubri- 
cant and emollient; non-greasy, water- 
soluble, non-irritating and non-corrosive. 

K-Y Analgesic — A safe and effective 
local anodyne, non-greasy and water- 
soluble. Used with success whenever an 
efficient local pain-reliever is ^ indicated 
in headache, neuralgia, inflamed joints, 
lumbago, sciatica and similar ills. 

Interol. — An exceedingly pure and 
high-grade mineral oil adapted for use 
whenever a reliable intestinal lubricant 
is necessary or desirable. 



Red Cross Notes ^'» 

The Paraffin-Fiim Treatment of Burns 

The New Method of Dressing Bumi and Granulations Is Being Used with Most 

Satisfactory Results in Hospitals and Private Practice — 

Promotes Healing Without Scarring 



When the medical profession was firft 
informed, through articles in the lay 
press, of the wax or paraffin-film treat- 
ment of burns being used in the French 



ton, in a paper on "The Modern Treat- 
ment of Burns," read before the Sec- 
tion of Surgery of the -Massachusetts 
Medical Society, sums up his experience 






ESE!;.;tr".i 



war hospitals, it viewed the 
of remarkable results with just skep- 
ticism. Knowledge of the treatment was 
largely a matter of hearsay and conver- 
sational reports of a few men who had 
seen it used. 

Today this feeling has changed. The 
medical journals have printed many re- 
ports of surgeons who have used the 
wax treatment of burns with success. 

CoNVHtTED FROM SkEPTICLSM 

Dr. Edward Hammond Ris!ey, of Bos- 



and third d»rfe. Pboto- 
ih day. Discharged from 



Cucei 



with the paraffin-film 

Massachusetts General Hospital, in these 

"From my rather limited experience 
with paraffin preparations I can say that 
I have been converted from skepticism 
to a rather firm belief that this method 
of treating burns (especially those oi 
limited area) is a decided advance over 
other methods formerly employed. 



i favoi 



It i: 



painful dressing; it is easy of applici 
tion and removal; it does not favor ii 



Red Crou Notes 



itly h' 






f ection ; it produces more rapid healing 
it leaves a smooth, soft, pliable scar. 

"From the point of view of comfor 

of the patient alone it is a decided ad 

vancc over any other form of dressing.' 

A Distinct Advance in Surcerv 

Dr. Elwood B. Haworth, of Pitts- 
burgh, surgeon of the Western Pennsyl- 
vania Hospital, writing in Surgery, 
Gynecology and Obstetrics, reports his 
experience in part as follows: 

"The treatment of burns and granu- 
lating wound surfaces with paraffir 
preparations has proved to be a di 
advance in surgery and any surgeon who 
has employed this method of treal 
cannot but realize that the results ob- 
tained are much superior to those ob- 
tained by any other procedure. 

"Wounds cicatrize in one -third to 
one-half the time. The scar tissue is 
less dense and more flexible and skin 
grafting is comparatively not often re- 
quired. Should skin grafting be thought 



advisable it will be found that, under th( 
parafiin-lilm application, these grafts will 
develop much more rapidly than by any 
other known method. 

"The action of the paraffin-film appli- 
cation upon granulations is largely mt- 
chanical. On cooling, the film contracts 
and exerts a suction action, thus induc- 
ing an active hyperaemia. By keepii^ j 
the wound airtight, and by acting as i 
splint or scaffolding to the granulatbns 
it promotes active proliferation of tlif 
newly formed tissue cells." 



, Patient Is Free i 



pAL-i 



During the past seven years al the 
Carnegie Steel Company, Pittsburgh, Dr. 
William O'Neill Sherman, the 
surgeon, and his assistants have ireaieil 
31,448 first and second degree burns and 
4,683 third degree burns. They hait 
thoroughly and scientifically tried e«T 
known method. 

When reports came from France earlj 
in the war of the remarkable success al 



Red Cross Notes 



thought to be contrary to all sound sur- 
gical principles. Notwithstanding this. 
the patients tvere being dressed without 
pain ; they W(re recovering two or three 
times more rapidly than under former 
methods and free from cicatricial con- 
traction with a. minimum of scar tissue. 
It must not be assumed that all third 
and fourth degree burns heal without any 
scar tissue formation. There is some scar 
tissue, but it is infinitely less than with 
any other method and does not have the 
tendency to contract, so that the fright- 
ful disfigurements and loss of function 
are practically eliminated. 

"After the first 24 hours the patient is 
free from pain in the vast majority of 
cases. This one factor alone justifies its 
use. The objection to the method as 
used at Issy was the great amount of 
time consumed in doing the dressings. 
By improving the technique, this objec- 
tion has been overcome. Upon the 
writer's return from Europe in Novem- 
bcr, 1916, immediate efforts were made 
so improve the technique; al the present 



emergency nospiiais i 

ment. The men have learned, from the 
experience of their fellow workmen, the 
superiority of the parafhn method and 
ask for it. It is useless to compare this 
method with other methods because of 
its undoubted superiority. It is an ideal 
: for burns." 



Redin-tol Is a Paraffin-Film Dressing 
To meet the demand of surgeons for 
this method of burn dressing, Johnson 
& Johnson have marketed Redintol. This 
preparation is now well established and 
most satisfactory and enthusiastic re- 
ports have been recorded as to its use 
In hospital and private practice. 

Redintol, after being melted, is usually 
applied to the injured surface with a 
camel's hair brush. Over the glaze 
formed by the compound a thin layer of 
absorbent cotton is placed, and a second 
layer of cotton is pressed into the warm 
Redintol dressing, and a second coating 
of the melted Redintol is brushed on. 
The completed dressing may be held in 
place by adhesive plaster or bandage. 



Red Cross Notes 



Lnic ihe [•niioni iiiftirni rxcrucialinB pain al dr*«sings. Note extensive con- 
While arcui urn on external lurfiice of thifb are lighi shadows. 






Johnson & Johnson prepare a special 
(orm of sheet coiton, known as Redintol 
Cotton, for use with Reilinlol burn 
dressing. Redintol Cotton is in thin 
sheets, 9 by 12 inches, and can be cut 
or torn into the size desired to cover the 
parts. It is suppUed 100 sheets in a box. 

Ordinary absorbent cotton may be 
used with Redintol, but Redintol Cotton 

The great and peculiar difference be- 
tween the Redintol and other forms of 
treatment for burns is that with the 
Redintol treatment all disturbance of the 
newly formed cells is avoided. 
M.\NY Uses for Redintol 

Redintol has also been found useful 
in the treatment of chilblains, frost bites. 



bruises, excoriations and in conditions 
of raw, denuded or inflamed areas. A 
recent reporter suggests its use as i 
dressing for inflamed areas in erysipelas. 
It is believed that many other uses will 
be developed. 

Redintol is supplied in one-pouod 
cakes, for hospital and general use, anJ , 
also in a form known as Individual Red- 
intol Burn Dressing, for use in first aid 
work. The Individual Dressing consists 
of a cake of Redintol sufficient for at 
least one dressing for any ordinary 
burn, four pieces of Redintol Cotton 3\ 
an applicator for applying RedintoL 

Redintol preparations may be obtaine<i 
through the drug trade or physidaas' 
supply houses. 



Red Cross Notes 



253 



Gcatrization of Burns Under Film Dressings 



A recent report by Fremiet and Pfuhl 
upon the cicatrization of burns under 
film dressings (such as Redintol) fur- 
nishes some noteworthy observations. 
From a clinical point of view, they re- 
port, the pain, even in large burns, di- 
minishes, the slough disappears and the 
wound assumes a reddish hue, beginning 
to granulate normally. As granulation 
proceeds, the entire raw surface of the 
wound is becoming covered by a puri- 
fonn exudate, essentially made up of 
leucocytes (polynuclear neutrophils ) 
and a serous fluid ; it is impregnated inva- 
riably — and the authors insist upon this 
point — with a large number of living 
bacterial elements, in spite of the pres- 
ence of an active phagocytosis. These 
bacteria consist of faculative anaerobes 
such as staphylococci and streptococci, 
bacillus pyocyanicus and some atmos- 
pheric microbes. 

From the histological point of view, 
cicatrization occurs by a rather rapid 
formation of a loose, structureless 
mesenchymatous layer, in which vascu- 
lar formation is very active; the prin- 
cipal elements in this mesenchyma, most 
generally oedematous, are fixed connec- 
tive tissue cells, of which a large number 
show mitotic division and motile cells, 
specially polynuclear leucocytes, which 
are in constant motion; the granulating 
surface is thus covered by a false mem- 
brane, formed by a large number of leu- 
cocytes, enclosed in a net of coagulated 
albuminoid substances ; the membrane 
seems to be one of temporary protection 
and disappears in proportion as epider- 
mization advances. 

Epidermization proceeds in the well- 
known classical way and may be very 
active. 

From a bacteriological viewpoint, no 
microbe could be discovered in the newly 
formed tissue, underneath the superfi- 



cial false membrane. Whenever an ac- 
cidental infection underneath this false 
membrane did occur, the granulating 
tissue concerned underwent necrosis and 
a secondary sphacelus was formed. 

The authors, basing themselves on 
their observations, believe themselves 
entitled to conclude that the infection of 
the wounds which they have studied 
remains strictly superficial, and this they 
attribute to the action of the leucocytes 
that continually traverse the granulating 
tissue and to the barrier represented by 
the false membranous covering. The 
newly formed tissues, then, under a 
paraffin dressing, develop aseptically by 
the simple function of the normal de- 
fenses at the disposal of the organism 
and without the aid of the intervention 
of any antiseptic substance. 



Redintol for Erysipelas 

(By J. E. Walker, M.D., Huntsville, Ala.) 

I have treated two cases of erysipelas 
with very great success with Redintol. 
Erysipelas, or the erysipelas germ, be- 
ing an open-air germ, dies if the air can 
be taken away from him, and the Redin- 
tol does this and is a simple and cheap 
dressing. 

I only made two applications and the 
erysipelas was under absolute control. I 
applied just as directed for a burn. The 
first dressing I let stay forty-eight hours 
and the second twenty-four hours, but it 
would have worked all O. K. to have let 
the first dressing stay the whole time. 



Success with Wax Dressing 

Dr. J. H. Branth, of New York City, 
reports that for some time he has used 
a mixture of waxes for sealing wounds. 
He uses a preparation of this character 
on nearly all sutures, leaving the lowest 
base for drainage. A preparation of this 
kind acts as a splint for immobilization. 
He uses a gauze pad to absorb the exu- 
date. The wax peels off after healing is 
completed. Re-dressing is, of course, 
necessary where exudate is collected. 



254 



Red Cross Notes 



Out of the War Has Come Chlwamine-T Gauze 

It Will Be Found Convenient for the Application o( Chloramine-T, One of the 
Antiseptics Which Has Proven of Service in the Treatment 

of Wounds of Recent Origin 



The European War has brought con- 
siderable advancement in the knowledge 
of antiseptics as well as a change in 
the method of employment. This ad- 
vancement and these changes have been 
of great value in civil and industrial 
practice. 

Among the- antiseptics which have 
proven of service are various compounds 
of chlorin. Chloramine-T is a shortened 
name for the antiseptic, the chemical 
name of which is sodium toluene-sul- 
phon-chloramide. It is a crystalline 
chemical compound containing about 12 
per cent, of chlorin. 

"In equi-molecular solution the germi- 
cidal activity is about four times that of 
sodium hypochlorite; its germicidal 
power is said to be fifty times greater 
than carbolic acid, and is rapidly ex- 
erted. In some respects it closely re- 
sembles the h3T)ochlorites, although it is 
decidedly less irritating than the latter." 

According to Dakin, chloramine-T is 
decidedly non-irritating but it is not 
suitable for internal administration. 

Chloramine-T Gauze is gauze impreg- 
nated with 5 per cent, of chloramine-T, 
and it is believed it will be found con- 
venient for the application of this highly 
antiseptic substance. 

Prevents Progress of Infection 

The writings of Dakin, Dunham, and 
others who have given attention to the 
use of the chloramines, indicate that this 
gauze has found its greatest value in ap- 
plication to wounds of recent origin in 
which the chief object is to prevent the 
progress of infection. It is found to be 
particularly adapted to use in industrial 
accidents or as a first aid application, 



especially to wounds which are believed 
to be infected. 

Certain writers have suggested the 
use of chloramine-T in the form of 
gauze as an application to burns, espe- 
cially if the burn is badly infected. It 
has also been suggested as an application 
to skin ulcers and in the treatment of 
such forms of skin disease as eczema, 
acne, etc. 

The Report of a Surgeon 

The following has been received from 
a surgeon who has used Chloramine-T 
Gauze : 

"I have used the Chloramine-T Gauze 
in the case of a large carbuncle of the 
neck, non-diabetic, which I packed daily. 

"There was another large boil on his 
head which was treated with tincture of 
iodine. The same cleansing for each. 

"The one treated with Chloramine-T 
was cleaner, with quicker healing proc- 
esses, while it was many times the size 
of the other. It was much cleaner than 
the one treated with the tincture of 
iodine. 

"No bacterial count was made." 

The gauze is preferably applied dry. 
If desired, however, it may be moistened 
after application ; in moistening boiled 
water should be used. 

No other antiseptic should be applied 
in conjunction with Chloramine-T 
Gauze, and by all means it should not be 
moistened with alcohol, hydrogen perox- 
ide or glycerin. 

Chloramine-T Gauze is a product of 
the Johnson & Johnson research labora- 
tory. It can be obtained through the 
drug trade. Johnson & Johnson wiO, 
upon request, send samples of this gauze. 



Red Cross Notes 



Copyrightei by Com 



Extension of Medical Education After the War 



A well-known professor in one of our 
medical colleges recently stated that im- 
mediately after the close of the war he 
proposed to put together what might be 
termed a medical and surgical unit, pat- 
terned after the units which have been 
sent to France by the American medical 
profession. 

The idea is to collect a corps of teach- 
ers, nurses, and the necessary parapher- 
nalia to demonstrate American methods, 
especially American teaching methods, 
in medicine and in surgery. Of course 
it would not be thought necessary to 
have the upwards of one hundred people 
which now constitute a so-called unit, 
but simply to have a sufficient number in 
the party to carry out the scheme. He 
would gather representative instruments 
and apparatus, charts, photographs, etc., 
to show the advantages of American 
teaching institutions. His intention 
^vould be to visit the principal points of 
South America, and possibly some por- 
tions of the countries which have been 
at war. 



Several advantages might accrue from 
such a mission. American physicians 
and surgeons would learn the methods 
of the countries visited, and the ex- 
change of ideas would be profitable. He 
is particularly interested in those coun- 
tries which have heretofore sent their 
students to Germany, and believes that 
with the present advancement in Amer- 
ican colleges and medical institutions, 
foreign students would do well to visit 
the United States. 

Another hope is that such a demon- 
stration would be of advantage in the cir- 
culation of American medical literature. 
Heretofore, in South American and 
other countries, practitioners have look- 
ed either to Germany or to France for 
their literature. It is undoubtedly true 
that medical literature in the English 
language is becoming abundant and 
meritorious. The English language is 
now universal in commerce. Foreign- 
-sp caking practitioners of medicine 
usually have a knowledge of English, or 
are willing to take pains to acquire it. 



256 



Red Cross Notes 



Ligatures and Sutures 
PAPER I 

{Contribution from the Scientific Department of Johnson & Johnson) 

A widely expressed desire for a broader knowledge of these important 
subjects has suggested the preparation of a series of notes in the form of 
papers, of which this is the first, upon the nature and properties of the various 
materials used for ligating and suturing in operative surgery. These notes 
have been compiled, and arc presented, with a particular view to the needs of 
students, nurses and others more or less intimately associated with the hand- 
ling and use of these essential materials. 



A Few Definitions 

The terms "ligatures" and "sutures* 
are sometimes erroneously regarded as 
synonymous. The difference between 
the two should be understood. 

Ligature, when used as a noun, 
means the thread or cord with which an 
artery or vein is tied to prevent or arrest 
hemorrhage. It is also applied to a cord, 
thread or wire used to remove tumors, 
etc. When used as a verb, it means to 
tie. 

The ligation or tying of arteries has 
been practiced from very ancient times. 
While the ligature has been mentioned 
by many ancient surgeons before and 
after that noble old Roman, Celsus, it 
remained for Pare, the equally renowned 
French surgeon, to adopt it as a revolu- 
tionary method, and, consequently, he 
may reasonably be looked upon as the 
"Father of the Ligature." 

Suture, when used as a verb, means 
to stitch or to sew. In surgery, and de- 
fined literally, it means the stitching 
together of the edges or lips of a wound 
to effect union. Suture material is used 
in sewing together tissues, blood vessels, 
nerves, bones, etc., until normal union is 
performed by Nature. 

Absorbable Sutures 

Sutures are divided into two general 
classes — the "absorbable" and the "non- 
absorbable." 



Absorbable sutures (or ligatures) are 
those which, during the healing process 
of wounds, are absorbed by the tissues 
in which they are embedded. Those most 
commonly used are catgut and kangaroo 
tendon. Other materials have been sug- 
gested, such as the tendons of the ox, 
deer, reindeer, rat, muskrat, the nor- 
whale, heron, crane and other animals 
and birds. With, however, the excep- 
tion of the well-known catgut and the 
kangaroo tendon, the materials named 
have not been generally adopted, prin- 
cipally for the reasons that they are ir- 
regular in size and difficult to procure. 

Animal tendons consist of layers of 
longitudinal fibres, which are split to 
form a suture of suitable size. This 
splitting is a difficult process, performed 
by skilled operatives specially trained for 
the work. Animal tendons are readily 
absorbed. Those of the kangaroo are 
the best-known among materials of this 
character, and are formed by Nature 
into sizes suitable for the purposes for 
which they are used. 

Catgut is a ribbon-like material which 
can be twisted into a cord, presenting at 
once the most acceptable type of absorb- 
able suture. 

Non-Absorbable Sutures 

Catgut, by being chromicized or 
tanned, can be made to resist absorp- 
tion for varying periods of time, but it 
is finally absorbed. 



Red Cross Notes 



2i7 



There are, however suture materials 
in very general use which are practically 
non-absorbable and, as such, remain in 
the tissues for an indefinite, length of 
time. Examples of such substances are 
silk, silkworm-gut, linen, horsehair and 
the various metallic wires, such as silver, 
copper, aluminum, bronze, etc. It may be 
noted that, in the course of time (some- 
times years), some of these so-called 
"non-absorbable" sutures disintegrate 
and disappear ; but they are not absorbed 
during the process of wound-healing. 

Silk Sutures 

The silk fibre consists of a continuous 
thread spun by that species of caterpillar 
known as the silkworm. The so-called 
Mulberry silkworm, cultivated in many 
countries, produces the bulk of the trade 
silk of the market. 

The eggs from which the silkworm is 
produced are laid by a scale-winged in- 
sect of the genus Bonebyx. The growth 
and development of the worm is very 
rapid. When the worm reaches ma- 
turity it exudes a viscuous fluid that 
forms, on contact with air, a continuous 
thread, and with this it forms its cocoon. 
After finishing the winding of its co- 
coon, the enclosed silkworm passes into 
a chrysalis, or pupa. From this condi- 
tion it eventually emerges as a butterfl}'. 
In the production of silk for commer- 
cial purposes, the development of the 
pupa is arrested at a certain stage by 
subjection to heat, which kills it. 

The silk fibre is obtained by unreeling 
the cocoon, and this process produces 
what is known as raw silk. The short 
tangled fibres from the exterior of the 
cocoon are the source of floss silk, from 
which spun silk is made. 

Before being manufactured into tex- 
tiles, the raw silk thread is subjected to 
several processes, which give the fabrics 
into which it is subsequently woven their 
soft texture and glossy appearance. 



The chemical constituents of silk con- 
sist of the following substances: Seri- 
cin fibroin, resins, fats and mineral mat- 
ter. Fibroin, which constitutes the ma- 
jor portion of the fibre, is a proteid, 
analogous to that contained in wool. 
Sericin is an altered form of fibroin, 
the so-called silk glue which forms the 
outer coating of the fibre. 

Silk is notable for its tensile strength, 
which is stated to be equal to that of an 
iron wire of equivalent diameter. It is 
very elastic. Boiled-off silk, and silk 
weighted with fillers, etc., to lend it 
luster, are impaired in the sterilization 
process as to both strength and elas- 
ticity. 

Silk will withstand a temperature of 
110* C. (230° F.) without decomposi- 
tion. Silk is dissolved by strong hot 
alkalies, and by concentrated sulphuric 
and hydrochloric acids. Silk readily ab- 
sorbs coloring matter, dyes, etc. Under 
the microscope, true silk is a structure- 
less thread, the so-called "wild" silks be- 
ing made up of bundles of delicate 
fibrille. The threads, as spun by the 
silkworm, are twisted and braided to- 
gether to form what are known techni- 
cally as "twisted silk" and "braided silk" 
respectively. Raw silk is cream or 
oi'ange color. As found in the market, 
however, it is white, due to scouring and 
bleaching. 

Many surgeons prefer silk sutures 
that have been dyed black, this color 
being more readily perceptible in the 
wound cavity or tissues. Silk of this 
type is known as "iron dyed." 

Sizes of Silk Ligatures 

In the early days of the Listerian sys- 
tem, silk sutures were confused with the 
sizes of violin strings and catgut, sup- 
posedly conforming to the wire-gauge 
system. In the course of time a market 
standard was adopted, in which there 
are some twenty or more sizes with con- 



Red Crou Note* 



Mcutivc numbers. The standard is 
based upon the yardage per ounce. The 
following table shows the approximate 
yardage per ounce of the twenty sites: 



Sutc 



i Whiii 



No. 



Yd> 



E Stbength of Silk 



the same sizes, but the weight of the dye 
gives a differem ratio of yards per 

Surgeons frequently use the designa- 
tions "fine," "medium" and "coarse," 
which, respectively, would be equivalent 
to numbers S, 9 and 12 in twisted silk, 
and 4, 7 and 10 in braided silk. Ap- 
proximately, numbers S, 9 and 12 in 
twisted silk and 4, 7 and 10 in braided 
silk are equivalent to numbers 1. 2 and 
3 in catgut. 

Makers of silk sutures supply sample 
cards showing ihe exact sizes in which 
they are obtainable, as illustrated below. 



Silk is stronger than catgut of the 
same siie, and it is not weakened by the 
ordinary processes of .sterilization, or a 
variety of influences which tend to de- 
bilitate catgut and other sutures. 

SlLKWOkU-GuT 

Silkworm-gut is made direct from the 
silkworm, before it forms the cocoon. 
The silkworm is killed by dipping it into 
acetic acid. Its pouches are then opened 
by hand and their thick liquid contents 
drawn out between the fingers of the 
operator. It is, essentially, unspun silk. 
The bulk of this material is supplied 
from the provinces of Spain. 

Silkworm-gut is a white, smooth ma- 
terial, but is quite stiff, and should be 
soaked in warm or hot water before at- 
tempting to tie it. This procedure has a 
tendency to prevent splitting. 

The shortness of the strand of silk- 
worm-gut limits its field of usefulness. 
The longest length ever produced is 
eighteen inches, the average length run- 
ning from twelve to fourteen. There is 
no way in which this difficulty can be 
Neither can there be any 
assortment as to sizes. The 
best that can be done is to supply it in 
what is known as "short," "medium" and 
"long" lengths, fine, medium or coarse, 
without any guarantee of greater ac- 
curacy in gradation. 



Red Cross Notes 



2S9 



In surgery, silkworm-gut is used prin- 
cipally for suturing the skin. 

Linen Sutures 

These are formed of the twisted fibre 
of flax — literally, linen thread — and, or- 
dinarily, are used in their original gray- 
ish-white form. Some operators, how- 
ever, prefer the black linen cord. 

Celluloid Linen — also known as "Pa- 
genstecher Linen" — is linen thread im- 
pregnated with celluloid. This is to 
overcome capillarity and to prevent in- 
fection from being carried into the 
wound by the strand. The coating in- 
creases the tensile strength and over- 
comes any tendency to irritate. It also 
obviates the troublesome snarling and 
kinking occasionally occurring in silk 
strands. 

Waxed Linen is linen thread coated 
with paraffin or with beeswax. Black 
waxed linen is usually preferred. 

Horsehair Sutures 

These sutures are taken from the tail 
of the horse, and are prepared for sur- 
gical uses as follows : They are first 
subjected to a thorough cleaning with 
boiling water and soap, to remove the 
gross dirt. This is followed by re- 
peated washing and sterilizing in hot 
water and steam. Owing to the liability 
of horsehair to the presence of tetanus 
and other organisms, a thorough sterili- 
zation is required. 

No particular gradation of sizes for 
horsehair sutures can be made. They 
are usually supplied in approximately 
uniform lengths, packed in tubes or 
envelopes and sterilized within the con- 
tainer. 

Horsehair is a fine, elastic substance 
with very little tensile strength. It 
can be used only for very delicate work. 
It is used chiefly for the suturing of the 
skin — particularly about the face, neck, 



lips, etc. — and leaves but little scar, or 
cicatrix. 

Silver Wire Sutures 

These consist of drawn wire of silver 
mixed with copper. The alloy contains 
985 parts of silver per thousand (985 
fine), the balance being copper. Silver 
wire was used for ligature and suture 
work before the advent of catgut. It 
was supposed to have an antiseptic ef- 
fect in the wound. As it cannot be 
knotted, it is fastened by twisting the 
ends. The main use for silver wire at 
present is for suturing the bones. 

Wire sutures have been made of other 
metals — aluminum, bronze, etc. At pres- 
ent, however, they are but little used. 

(The next paper in this series will be 
devoted to catgut.) 



A Handbook of Ligatures 

An excellent volume of information 
on the subject of ligatures is the Hand- 
book of Ligatures published by the 
Scientific Department of Johnson & 




Handbooic 
L1CATURI&5 



gBTiflgayfeg*' 



Johnson. A copy will be sent to any 
physician or nurse on request, with the 
compliments of the publishers. 



»" RedCrott Note. 

War Has Stimulated First Aid Study 

Phyucimiu Who Are CoiuUntly Being Cs&td Upon to Aniit with the Fonnatioo 

of Clanes and to Outline Counc* ^ Stu^ Find the Service of the 

Johmon & Jf^uuon Firat Aid Bureau Vety Helpful 

The extent to which the study of first first aid classes, to outline courses ol 

aid has been stimulaled hy war is amaz- study, to train first s 

ing. The call from the vast shipbuilding to generally supervise the i 

nls and other war in- They have found no lack of enthusiasm. 



ar Ihe froi 

dustries, working under the strain oE 
"speed up" orders, for trained first aid 
workers has resulted in first aid instruc- 
tion being made a part of the work oi 
universities, training schools and train- 
ing camps. 

The Red Cross, (he Y. M. C. A., the 
Home Defense Guards and other organ- 
izations are teaching first aid. These 
war agencies, supplementing the work 
which has been done for years by the 
railroads, the mines, the police and fire 
departments of municipalities, the Boy 
Scouts and the Camp-fire Girls, have 
crystallized the importance and value of 
true first aid. 

Physicians everywhere have been 
called upon (o assist in the formation of 



but rather have had to guard against 
the over -enthusiasm of the first aid 
workers who occasionally go beyond the 
limitations of true first aid. 

The fact that the treatment and care 
of injuries, the administration of medi- 
cine and the diagnosis and treatment of 
disease are no part of first aid work— 
that, on the contrary, they lie within the 
province of the physician exclusively— 
is often overlooked. 

It is an established principle that the 
condition of the patient is prejudiced, 
rather than improved, when any other 
than the simplest temporary measures 
are adopted for his relief by first aid 
workers. 

The First Aid Bureau of Johnson S 



Red Cross Notes 



Copyrighli,! b.v C. 



P-blk loformalicn. 



Type of hospital in which Ihe French adminiUcred first aid during the 
war. This one was within the lone of German iire. It contained all modern 
surgical appliances. Although only cortred by a canvas roof. i( had b»en 
decoratert hv the nurses in an attempt to make it aopear more homelike to 



Johnson has been of material service to 
physicians in impressing this fact upon 
hosts of new first aid workers. In all 
of the first aid literature sent out special 
etnphasis is laid upon the paramount 
necessity of enlisting the services of a 
ilualified medical man in every emer- 
gency case. The assistance which this 
Bureau has been able to render to the 
profession, through its First Aid Man- 
ual, First Aid Qiart and First Aid In- 
struction pamphlet, has materially aided 
in the organization and instruction of 
many classes. 

In organizing class work the first 
thing to do is to select a reliable text 
book. It is interesting to note that the 
physicians, following the example of 
many institutions of learning, have 
chosen Johnson's Standard First Aid 
Manual. They found that this Manual, 
through its seven editions, has kept pace 
with the advance of first aid work, and 
that the eighth edition, recently pub- 
lished, while retaining all of the charac- 



teristic features of previous editions 
which have stood the severe test of prac- 
tical experience and professional criti- 
cism, contains, in addition, all new in- 
formation brought to light by the rapid 
development of first aid. 

Instructors favor this Manual because 
technical terms have been avoided, be- 
cause everything is placed before the 
readers in so simple and plain a form 
that anyone who can read English or 
understand a picture may gain informa- 
tion which will serve in an emergency. 

They know that Its teachings are 
sound, as a large number of first aid 
Instructors of national reputation as- 
sisted the editor in its revision. They 
know that the illustrations are instruc- 
tive, as they were posed for by first aid 
teams under the direction of trained 
workers. 

Many instructors have found that 
their classes make greater headway when 
ihey use Johnson's First Aid Chart to 
illustrate the lessons under discussion. 



i62 



Red Cross Notes 



This is a practical anatomical chart, cov- 
ering the whole range of first aid in 
picture and text. It is mounted on heavy 
cardtx>ard, '21 by 44 inches, and litho- 
graphed in ten colors. 

Physicians and nurses, called upon to 
supervise first aid classes, have found it 
helpful to have in printed form an out- 
lined system of instruction. In response 
to this demand, and without presuming 
to dictate the procedure or usurp the 
functions of qualified first aid instruc- 
tors, the First Aid Bureau of Johnson & 
Johnson has compiled and published, in 
pamphlet form, a series of ten lessons. 

The lessons outlined are based upon 
Johnson's Standard First Aid Manual 
and suggest a practical grouping of the 
following subjects: 

The First Things to Do. 

Bleeding. 

Wounds. 

Fractures. 

Burns and Scalds. 

Machinery Accidents. 



Sunstroke, Fainting, Fits, Uncon- 
sciousness. 
Sprains, Dislocations, etc 
Artificial Respiration. 
Transportation of the Injured. 

Besides the lessons this pamphlet con- 
tains practical suggestions for organiz- 
ing first aid classes, reproduces in colors 
a miniature of the Johnson's First Aid 
Chart and outlines the service available 
to first aid workers. 

Johnson & Johnson will gladly send a 
copy of this First Aid Instruction pam- 
phlet to anyone sufficiently interested to 
request it. Johnson's Standard First 
Aid Manual will be supplied in cloth 
binding for 50 cents a copy, or in paper 
binding for 25 cents a copy. Johnson's 
First Aid Chart will be sent, carriage 
prepaid, for $3.00 each. 

Physicians and others who may be 
called upon to act as instructors in first 
aid are cordially invited to correspond 
with the First Aid Bureau of Johnson & 
Johnson. 



Supplies for the Carrel Method of Wound Sterilization 



Surgeons who are interested in the 
Carrel method of wound sterilization, by 
intermittent saturation of the wound by 
means of a specially devised solution of 
sodium hypochlorite, will find the Chlo- 
rin-Soda Ampoules the most convenient 
and accurate method of preparing the 
solution. 

Following is a list of supplies for the 
Carrel method which are made by John- 
son & Johnson and which may be ob- 
tained from druggists and physicians' 
supply houses: 

Chlorin-Soda Ampoules. — One ampoule of 
liquid chlorin and one tube of sodium salts con- 
tain the exact amount of material necessary to 
prepare one liter of Carrel-Dakin solution of 
standard strength — .45% to .50% sodium hypo- 
chlorite. These items are supplied only in sets 
containing three ampoules of liquid chlorin and 



three tubes of sodium salts (sufficient for three 
liters of Carrel-Dakin solution). 

Ampoule Holder. — (Connected with rubber 
stopper) For holding the chlorin ampoule in the 
bottle when making the solution. 

Protective Bags. — To cover five pint or half- 
gallon bottles, to protect user in case of break- 
age of glass bottle. 

C. D. S. Rubber Instillation Tubes. — ^These 
are perforated, ends tied, and the perforated 
area covered with special absorbent Turkish 
toweling made for the purpose. Packed six in 
a box. 

Rubber Instillation Tubes (plain). — ^Per- 
forated and ends tied but not provided with 
diffusers. Packed one dozen in a box. 

DiFFusERS. — Made of special Turkish towel- 
ing manufactured for the purpose. Prepared 
in "tubes" twelve inches lon^, ready for appli- 
cation to perforated instillation tubes. These 
are extra aiffusers to replace those removed by 
the surgeon and destroyed after each daily 
change of dressings. Packed one dozen in a 
box with a glass applicator to facilitate slipping 
them over the rubber diffusers. 

Bacterial Charts. — As designed bv Dr. Car- 
rel for charting the bacterial "count by which 
the point of approximate sterility is determined. 
No charge. 



Red Cross Notes 



263 



Antiseptics Are Being Re-enthroned 



The pendulatn is swinging back 
toward a modified form of antisepsis. 
The surgery of the great war, with its 
vast experience in the treatment of in- 
juries, is responsible for the new tech- 
nique, and civil practice, both here and 
elsewhere, has verified the wisdom of 
the change. 

Witness, for example, the widespread 
use of the Carrel-Dakin solution of 
hypochlorites, and of the various forms 
of chloramine paste, and solutions 
and gauze, and of a somewhat extended 
list of antiseptics, all applied under the 
newer and better knowledge which ex- 
perience has taught. 

Many operators think it is quite pos- 
sible that the war may bring about an 
extended use of antiseptic dressings in 
surgery, and they note, as significant, 
that the medical departments of the va- 
rious governments are using large 
amounts of antiseptic dressings. While 
it is true that aseptic procedures will not 
be abandoned, it is more than probable 
that they will be combined with the use 
of antiseptics. 

Dr. John O'Connor, medical adviser 
of the British Hospital of Buenos Aires, 
in a recent article, goes as far as to pay 
extended tribute to the use of bichlo- 
ride of mercury, as a result of three 
decades of hospital practice. He finds it 
an efficient non-irritant antiseptic for 
the sterilization of the hands, the skin 
of the patient, and for the maintenance 
of the tissues in an aseptic state until 
physiological repair has taken place. 

He has found it necessary in many 
cases, especially in abdominal work, to 
abandon the use of iodine, and he now 
follows the method of shaving and 
scrubbing the field with soap and water 
(Synol Soap would find its use here — 
Editor), then washing with alcoholic 



mercurial solution, applying a large 
layer of sterile linter gauze containing 
bichloride of mercury. 

The dressing is removed on the 
operating table, and the field is given a 
final washing with mercurial solution, 
before the dry towels are applied to 
isolate the part. He uses hot bichloride 
of mercury fomentations, alternating 
every three or four hours with hot hy- 
drogen peroxide lotions, followed by 
hot carbolic lotions ; these for the "des- 
perateV infected wounds. 

He states that bichloride of mercury 
fomentations, or compresses, applied 
hourly, except when the patient is 
asleep, is the most effective and rapid 
method of curing a carbuncle; that it 
renders the use of the knife unneces- 
sary. He advocates the use of bichlo- 
ride of mercury in low strength. 

Dr. O'Connor maintains that for sep- 
tic wounds no treatment equals those 
which were outlined by him in a recent 
number of "Annals of Surgery." Uni- 
formly, he had found an early but not 
sudden discharge of purulent matter, 
followed by rapid healing. 



Treatment of War Wounds 

The Journal of the American Medical 
Association, in a review of the work of 
Sir Almroth Wright in respect to the 
treatment of infected wounds received 
in battle, states: 

"At this time the most successful 
method for the reduction of infection in 
wounds appears to be that of Carrel." 

Sir Almroth Wright himself states 
that he regards the Carrel method as 
"by far the most important contribution 
to surgical technique since the beginning 
of the war." 

The basic principle of the Carrel 
method is to reduce the infection to a 



264 



Red Cross Notes 



point where healing proceeds without 
delay after approximation of the edges 
by sutures or otherwise. As we under- 
stand it the method does not consist 
bimply of flushing the wound with an 
antiseptic; it is a combination of pro- 
cedures by which the chemical sut)stance 
is U5cd in specific continued contact, con- 
centration and duration, under micro- 
scopic control. It is possible that sterili- 
zation would tend toward making an 
early c!osing of the wound possible. 

According to reports by Carrel and 
others it is possible to secure by this 
method complete sterilization of infected 
shell wounds; in other words, it seems 



that chemical sterilization of infected 
wounds may be accomplished. 

Carrel started on the use of the Car- 
rel- Dakin Solution after having tried 
several other disinfecting^ fluids, finding 
that this gave the most satisfactory re- 
sults. Whether the action of this fluid is 
due solely to its direct disinfecting power 
or to its physiologic properties, discussed 
by Sir Almroth Wright, is an open ques- 
tion which can be studied with profit 
In any event there can be no question 
that CarreFs method marks a long step 
in advance in the treatment of local 
infection. 



A Complete Outfit for Baby's First Dressing 



"From one-quarter to one-third of the 
pupils admitted to the schools for the 
blind have lost their sight from infection 
acquired at birth or during the first ten 
days of life, and there are innumerable 
other cases of those who are partially 
blind from the same cause. The respon- 
sibility for this appalling condition rests 
with the nurse, midwife or physician 
who had charge of the confinement," 
states F. Park Lewis, M.D. 

This danger of blindness from oph- 
thalmia neonatorum arises from the lack 
of proper material at the time of birth. 
In many families material for cleansing 
the umbilical cord and for cleansing the 
mouth, nose and eyes is seldom at hand 
when wanted, especially where the birth 
is in charge of a nurse or midwife. 

To meet this need Johnson's First 
Dressing for Infants has been prepared. 
This outfit meets all these needs. It also 
fulfills the requirements of the growing 
number of States which require the use 
of prophylactic measures in cases of 
babies' sore eyes at the time of birth. 
Nearly thirty States require cases of 
babies' sore eyes to be reported to the 



Board of Health; eighteen require or 
recommend prophylactic measures. 

This outfit also meets the recommen- 
dation of the National Committee for 
the Prevention of Blindness. Many 
medical organizations have recommend- 
ed the use of such an outfit. 

The Johnson's First Dressing Packet 
contains the following items: 

One envelope containing two sterilized tapes 
for tying the umbilical cord. 

Two gauze pads^ (one with perforations) for 
dressing the umbilical cord. 

One package boracic acid for cleansing and 
disinfecting the umbilical cord and eyes. 

Two small gauze pads for cleansing the eyes, 
mouth, etc. 

Three pieces of sterilized absorbent cotton for 
cleansing the eyes and dressing the cord, etc. 

One ampoule of nitrate, of silver solution 
(one per cent.) for instillation into the infant's 
eyes when necessary. 

One flannel binder for holding the umbilical 
cord in place. 

Three safety pins. 

One miniature package of Johnson's Toilet 
and Baby Powder tor use after the infant's first 
bath. 

One miniature bottle of Synol Soap for 
the bath, cleansing the hands, etc. 

One chart for making the birth record. 

Full directions accompany each item 
and a circular in each packet gives in- 
structions to the nurse or midwife. 



Red Cross Notes '" 

Linton Gauze Bandages in Cylinders 

The most convenient and economical The sizes cf the bandages include Fin- 
form of gauze bandage in these times is ger Bandages, one inch by three yards, 
the J & J Linton Gauze Bandage, packed and all widths from one to four inches 
in a sealed cartridge carton. It can be in ten-yard lengths. 



Th( range of sizes of L 

carried in the grip or pocket ; it is per- 
fectly protected from infection while 
handled ; it is sterilized — fit to apply di- 
rectly to the wound. 

This style of packing, used only for 
Linton Gauze Bandages, keeps the band- 
ages aseptic indefinitely. 

Linton Gauze Bandages are made in a 
surgical dressing laboratory, from the 
finest grade gauze of well spun thread. 
They are lightly rolled; they are full 
width and length, as specified on the 
label. 



Dton Cauce Bandages. 

Linton Gauze Bandages in cylinders 
are sold by count only — not by weight. 
The former method of selling bandages 
by weight made it difficult for the dealer 
to arrive at a correct re-sale price. 

A good exponent of the new method 
is the Government itself, which uses 
many million bandages, and whose spe- 
cifications require them by count. 

Hospitals and physicians will serve 
themselves by requiring that bandages 
be supplied to them of a specified length 
and width, and by count, not by weight. 



266 



Red Cross Notes 




The Miracle of Dust 

Dust is an important factor in almost 
every phenomenon of the earth's atmos- 
phere. It is due to dust that the heavens 
are blue. Without it the heavens would 
be blacker than we see them on moon- 
less nights. It is especially on mountain 
heights that the skv is so intensely blue, 
because the rarened atmosphere sup- 
ports only the finest particles. Dust 
plays a most important role in our at- 
mosphere in determining rainfall, due to 
the fact that vapor fluidifies upon the 
dust particles. 

Without dust we would have no fog, 
no rain, no snow, no purplish sunset, no 
cerulean sky. The surface of the earth 
itself, the trees, the houses, along with 
man and beast, would be the only objects 
on which the vapor could condense, and 
these would begin to drip whenever the 
air was cooled sufficiently. In winter 
everything would be covered with a 
crust of ice, our clothes would become 
saturated with water condensing upon 
them. Umbrellas would be of no avail. 
In short, the world we live in would be 
quite another world if there was no 
dust. — Literary Digest. 



To Destroy the Nits 

It has been found that cresol soaps, 
such as Synol Soap, are effective in the 
destruction of the nits of the clothes 
louse. The clothes should be soaked 
for a half-hour in a five per cent, solu- 
tion, and the temperature should be 
above 60* F. 



''Influenza** Is Italian 

The word "influenza" is of Italian 
origin. It signifies "influence," and was 
originally applied to astral or occult in- 
fluence supposed to be the cause of a 
visitation of a disease on an epidemic 
scale. Formerly any epidemic was an 



"influenza" under the "evil influence of 
the star." Now the use of the word 
is restricted to the epidemics of feverish 
catarrhs usually prevailing in winter and 
spring. 

Origin of Smallpox 

It is believed that smallpox was first 
recognized as a disease in Asia. In 
China references are made in writing, 
1122 B. C, to a disease presenting the 
symptoms of smallpox. In ancient 
Sanskrit literature there are records of 
fatal epidemics of unknown origin and 
name, which were prevalent in India and 
Persia at least five thousand years ago. 
In the sixth century of the Christian 
Era it was described by Aron, an Egyp- 
tian physician, who wrote of smallpox 
specifically, and differentiated it from 
measles. 



Favors Chloramine Gauze 

Dr. Fremont W. Frankhauser, of 
Wernersville, Pa., reports that he has 
used chloramine gauze on carbuncles, 
abscesses and large boils, where the cav- 
ities were large enough to pack. He 
states that it always cleans out and ar- 
rests suppuration, promoting healthy 
granulations, and that the opening closes 
up very fast. He has never used any- 
thing, he says, that arrests suppuration 
as quickly as chloramine gauze. 



Castor Oil in Dressings 

We are swinging back to Lister in the 
adoption of castor oil for the dressing 
of wounds. Lister's earlier dressings 
had castor oil as one of the constituents. 



Busy physicians will find concise facts 
about blistering in "Blistering Time 
Table," a 24-page booklet issued by 
Johnson & Johnson. Sent free on re- 
quest. 




LUBRICATING THE MEMBRANES 



Suggests the "line of least resistance** invariably followed 
by catheter, sound, speculum, *scope and digit when ade- 
quately coated with 

«K-Y'' LUBRICAtiNG JELLY, 

the cleanest of surgical lubricants — non-soiling, non- 
staining and water soluble. 



«< 



K-Y** Lubricating Jelly is "Friction's Antidote** for 
all instruments of penetration, and softens and protects 
the surgeon*s hands from irritation. 



Samples on Request EFFECTIVE - ECONOMICAL Of all Druggists 

JOHNSON & JOHNSON— Van Horn and Sawtell Department 

15-17 East 40th Street, New York City 



**EIGHT FEET OF TROUBLE*' 

is the intestinal canal. 

Obstipation Stasis Autoxemia 

claim victims by the score. 

Treatment, to be efficient, needs lubrication. 
Elective lubrication requires 

INTEROL 

by reason of its correct body, effective viscosity, and freedom from 
suggestion of flavor or odor, even when heated to lOO^C. 

INTEROL secures results in hands that 
KNOW HOW— and WHEN— to use it 

JOHNSON & JOHNSON-Van Horn and Sawtell Department 

1 5-1 7 East 40th Street, New York Gty 



"ZO' 

"ZO" 

and (reedon 
authorities I 
surgical pui] 



ON5P 

10 rank I i, I 



The ) 
"ZO"Adi 
been prolon 
women and 
give to this 

Ad e 
Adhesive F 



s VII " Number Eleven 

"Red ^ss ^ 

MOTEsS W 

Q NEW BRUNSWICK.C/ N. J., U.S.A. 



PUBLISHED BY 

Ovriiaht 1919. Johuoa A Jcliiwn 



SAFEGUARDING THE SURGEON'S CONFIDENCE 
Here is shown a sectional view o( the Scientific Department of the Johnson & 
Johnson laboratories, lis duty is to see that every manufactured product is worthy 
the full confidence of the surgeon. It has constant superviuon of the manufacturing 
processes, fn»a the inq>ection of raw materials to examioatioi] and standardization of 
Gni^ied firoducls. 



Red Cross Cotton — the World's Standard 



Rtd CioM Codoo n put up in (he foUowinf nzci: Ooe-pouDd, luU.pouiKi 



RED CROSS COTTON is today recognized as the standard {« 
the worid's production, a standard which is imitated and striven 
after, but which stands in a class by itself. 

It is made of carefully selected fibre, it is protected from infectioii 
throughout the various stages of manufacture, it is sterilized after final 
packing, and it is so packed that it remains sterile. 

Red Cross Cotton is the only absorbent cotton that is so wrapped 
that all surfaces, including the edges, are fully protected from dust, diit 
and infection, whether in or out of the carton. This enables the user to 
cut as much from the roll as is desired without touching the remaindet, 
insuring a perfect aseptic condition of the roll until the last particle is useiL 

In a pound package of Red Cross Cotton there is a pound of absolute- 
ly perfect cotton fibre, exclusive of the weight of tissue or other wrappings- 
Every other size package, even to the smallest ounce or half-ounce, coo- 
tains the full net weight. 

Sold by all druggists and physicians' supply houses. 

JOHNSON & JOHNSON. New Brunswick, N. J., U. S. A 



RED CROSS NOTES 



COPYRIGHT, 1919, BY JOHNSON & JOHNSON 



Series VII NEW BRUNSWICK, N. J. Number Eleven 



Fred B. Kilmer, Editor 

This publication is issued from the laboratories of the publishers with the intent to 
give, in brief, items of interest and reports of original research along the line of the 
particular branches of the art in which they labor. 

Persons receiving Red Cross Notes will confer a favor by notifying the publishers of 
any inaccuracy in the address on the wrapper and of any change of their address. 



There Is No Substitute for Confidence 

During the war, necessity became the mother of substitution — 
some good, some bad and some just neutral. Surgeons found paper 
being substituted for gauze in bandages, and paper pulp and moss 
for absorbent cotton. 

With peace came other forms of substitution, born of the neces- 
sity of finding new outlets for the products of organizations engaged 
in the manufacture of war goods. And the surgical dressing line 
has not been overlooked in this form of substitution. 

There is no room for hit-or-miss mechanical methods in the 
manufacture of surgical dressings. It is not a business which can be 
assumed overnight to meet the exigencies of changing conditions — 
to fill a gap. There must be no room for doubt about surgical 
dressings. They must command the confidence of the surgeon. 

In no boastful spirit it may be said that for thirty years John- 
son & Johnson surgical dressings have enjoyed this confidence. War 
conditions did not disturb it. Substitution has never gained a foot- 
ing in the Johnson & Johnson establishment. The high standards 
adopted years ago have always been maintained. 

From the beginning Johnson & Johnson have held firmly to the 
principle that materials used for wound dressing, for the conserva- 
tion of life itself, must be so made and marketed that they are fit for 
the most delicate uses of surgery, and worthy the full confidence of 
the surgeon. 

The growth of the business has simply been the result of an 
ever- widening circle of confidence, now reaching to the medical pro- 
fession of every civilized country. 

In this issue of the Notes some space is devoted to a description 
of manufacturing processes which have helped to command this 
confidence, and attention is also drawn to the enlarged facilities, 
made necessary by the rapid growth of the business. 



''7'* 



Red Cross Notes 



How Surgical Dressings Are 

By Installing the Highest Type of Apparatus and Maintaining a Rigid System, 

the Johnson & Johnson Laboratories Secure Absolute Sterilization of 

Their Enormous Output of Cotton Fibre Products 



Physicians who have visited the John- 
son & Johnson factories have been par- 
ticularly impressed with the processes of 
sterilization. They had often wondered 
how a manufacturer who produces band- 
ages and other surgical dressings by 
the hundreds of millions could be as 
positive as Johnson & Johnson arc that 
every dressing sent out as sterile is 
sterile. 

After seeing how the sterilization is 
applied under the most rigid system and 
by the use of the highest type of appa- 
ratus, they have suggested that the pro- 
fession in general would be keenly inter- 
ested in this subject. 

It is generally known that Johnson & 
Johnson have the distinction of having 
been the first to introduce sterile sur- 
gical dressings in a commercial way 
years ago, and it is also recognized that 
their laboratories to-day are producing 
these dressings on the largest scale and 
that these dressings are recognized as 
the standard of the world's production. 

These dressings pass through several 
stages of disinfection and sterilization. 
They are manufactured under aseptic — 
surgically clean — conditions, and as a 
final safeguard they are sterilized within 
their containers. 

To-day it requires eight large steriliz- 
ers, each having a capacity of twelve 
thousand bandages at a single operation, 
to take care of the output of these lab- 
oratories. The sterilization apparatus in 
use is no doubt the largest and most 
complete in the world, and its germ- 
destroying capacity is marvelous. 

The processes and apparatus are the 
result of extended research. Steam and 
formaldehyd vapors are the germ-de- 



stroying agents employed, and by the 
use of vacuum chambers penetration of 
the fibre is secured, and hence absolute 
sterilization. 

Steam Sterilization 

The sterilizing chambers may be de- 
scribed briefly as follows : 

They are rectangular in form, con- 
structed of thick walls of metal, asbestos 
and other non-conducting material. They 
are surrounded by a steam jacket for 
producing heated air within the chamber. 
The doors to the chamber open at both 
ends, the one end to receive the unster- 
ilized goods and the other end to dis- 
charge them. Cars of iron, with trays, 
carry the products to be treated. Supply 
pipes, controlled by valves, admit the 
live steam to the interior of the cham- 
ber. The actions involved within the 
chamber are : 

a. Preliminary warming of the ma- 
terial to prevent condensation. 

b. Removal of air. 

c. Circulation of saturated steam, un- 
mixed with air and under pressure, 
through every fibre of the material, 
subjecting them to the highest possible 
action of this agent. 

d. Subsequent exhaustion of steam 
and substitution of heated air. 

After the gauze or cotton passes into 
this chamber, the doors are closed, and 
the chamber is soon heated with hot air. 
The air is then exhausted to a vacuum, 
and saturated steam is admitted. The 
temperature quickly rises to a possible 
250 degrees, and the pressure gauge in- 
dicates 15 pounds. The steam pipes are 
now closed and the vacuum pump is 
again operated, until a proper vacuum 
is obtained. In turn currents of satura- 



Red Cross Notes 



iitrs. Tlie capacity of each sterilizer is twelve i 

led steam follow each other through the 
vacuum for from a half to one hour. 
Every part of the chamber is penetrated, 
every fibre is subjected to the action of 
this highest of bactericides, and the tnost 
resistant form of germ life is reached 
and destroyed. 

FORMALDEHVD STERILIZATION 

The same chambers are used for the 
application of formaldehyd vapors to 



such dressings as might be injured by 
moist steam. In the use of the formal- 
dehyd, the warm, moist formaldehyd gas 
passes into the vacuum chambers and the 
result is an immediate and effectual pen- 
etration of the fibres. 

The whole operation is directed and 
controlled by the Bacteriological Labor- 
atory. Sterilization is the final process. 
There is no manipulation after sterihza- 



Some Good Things from the War 



The great world war furnished many 
horrors, but, as is usual, also developed 
a few good things which are now com- 
ing to light. 

The Geophone 

One of these good things is a listening 
device called a geophone. This instru- 
ment, as its name indicates, records any 
tremor of the earth. In warfare the geo- 
phone records the tremor of the earth 
caused by gunfire. 

The apparatus was developed in the 



United States and is so delicate, it is 
stated, that it registers the dropping of a 
pin on the floor with the same accuracy 
as it would record the discharge of a 
gun. 

It is proposed to use it on the rescue 
cars connected with mines in order to 
locate miners who may be imprisoned 
within the tunnels. It is staled that thr 
slightest movement made by the men in 
such an accident can be recorded by the 
geophone, and thus their location dis- 
covered readily by the rescuing party. 



274 



Red Cross Notes 



Thk Mkrophone 

Another instrument developed along 
the "^amc lines is the microphone, in- 
teiulcd to he used as a method of sig- 
iia l.ng a warning to workers in the 
minrs. In the past, when an accident 
occurred in the mines, it has heen diffi- 
cult to pass the warning from one end 
to the other. Xow, in the event of dan- 
ger, a preparation with a peculiar odor 
is put into the pipes charged with com- 
pre'i^ed air, and as soon as the miners 
perceive this odor they know that it is 
time to quit the mines. 

A Mask for Miners 

Still another war development is the 
invention of a hreathing apparatus for 
miners. This is constructed along the 
lines of the hreathing masks used in the 
war, which consist of a face mask con- 



nected by a long tube to a tank of oxy- 
gen. By the means of this apparatus 
a man can live two hours in an atmos- 
phere which, without this protection, 
would kill him in a minute. 

The necessity for the protection of 
armies against poisonous gases has led 
to the development of the gas mask. So 
efficient is this mask that it is stated that 
if the men were gassed it was due to 
their own carelessness in adjusting the 
mask. 

These masks are adaptable to our 
chemical industries to protect the work- 
ers from the deadly chemical fumes 
often let loose in the factory. It \i 
stated that in the development of poison- 
ous gases several important chemical 
discoveries have been made which will 
be of great value to American indus- 
tries. 



Health Insurance in England and Germany 



The experience of England and Ger- 
many with Health Insurance will fur- 
nish food for thought for those who, 
without due consideration, are urging 
State Health Insurance laws in this 
country. 

In England 

Sir Bertrand Dawson, of England, re- 
cently discussed the future of the med- 
ical profession, especially in relation to 
Health Insurance. He stated that the 
position of the physician in England is 
far from being an enviable one and that 
certain reforms are greatly needed. The 
physician is overworked and underpaid, 
and the influence of the profession as a 
whole in public affairs is practically nil. 

The present condition of the profes- 
sion is not the result of war but the 
outgrowth of many antagonistic condi- 
tions, not the least of which is the Na- 
tional Health Insurance Law. Many 
physicians who are doing panel work 



under this Health Insurance Law, even 
with hard work, are unable to earn more 
than one hundred and fifty pounds per 
year ($750). 

The proposition has been made to 
make the panels larger. While this 
would merit a greater return it wouW 
simply reduce the practice of medicine 
to a test of physical endurance without 
any regard for brain or ability. 

The Failure in Germany 

No less an authority than Mr. Fred- 
erick L. HoflFman, of the Association of 
Life Insurance Presidents, has reached 
a strong conclusion against the work- 
ings of compulsory health insurance. 
He states that compulsory social insur- 
ance rests upon profound misconcep- 
tions of life and labor in a democracy, 
for it involves the establishment of per* 
manent class distinctions. 

After thirty years* trial in Gennany» 



Red Cross Notes 



275 



Make Thrift a Happy National Habit 

Thrift must be encouraged as a happy, everyday national 
habit of the American people. 

It is a duty we owe the nation. The war bills must be 
paid, our troops abroad must be maintained, ©ur soldiers must 
be brought home and restored to social and industrial useful- 
ness, and the helpless, maimed, sick and wounded must be 
reconstructed. 

Thrift makes wages yield the maximum in commodity, 
comfort, service, recreation and advancement. 

Thrift will clearly make for family stability, increase in- 
dividual credit and buying power and will directly and neces- 
sarily contribute to community and national wealth and pros- 
perity. 

The best way to teach thrift is to urge the systematic buy- 
ing of War Savings Stamps. It is a movement worthy the 
heartiest support of every physician. 



compulsory health insurance has not 
improved the health of the working peo- 
ple of the community or the standard of 
public health, while financially at the 
present time it is in a condition of chaos. 
It has led to dishonesty and deception 
on the part of patients, druggists and 
physicians, with the general undermining 
of the morale of the community. It has 
not checked the spread of socialism. 

In the field of sanitary welfare, the 
United States has, in the last thirty 
years, advanced more rapidly without 
social insurance than Germany has with 
it 

The condition of the medical profes- 
sion in Germany has not been improved, 
but on the contrary the ethical standards 
of the profession have been perceptibly 
lowered. The German experience proves 
the inadequacy of social insurance as an 
effective means of securing the required 
degree of continuous social progress de- 
manded by modern standards of labor 
and life. 



Useful During Epidemics 

Physicians and boards of health occa- 
sionally need simple and complete 
printed instructions, as to isolation, sani- 
tation and care of patients, for general 
circulation, especially at the time of epi- 
demics. Johnson & Johnson have issued 
the following publications for such a 
purpose and will furnish copies on re- 
quest : 

Contagious Disease Bulletins. — A 
series of six pamphlets written from 
the standpoint of the best authorities 
upon sanitation and embracing the lat- 
est and best-known methods used by 
Health Boards to combat communicable 
diseases. The Bulletins are as follows : 
Diphtheria and Scarlet Fever Bulletin, 
No. 28; Typhoid Fever and Allied Dis- 
eases Bulletin, No. 29; Infantile Paraly- 
sis and Meningitis Bulletin, No. 38; 
Whooping Cough and Measles Bulletin, 
No. 40; Consumption Bulletin, No. 56, 
and Smallpox Bulletin No. 57. 

A Book with a Mission, No. 18. — A 
forty-page book with directions for the 
prevention of the more contagious dis- 
eases. 



276 



Red Cioss Notes 



The Unique Office of Dr. Umitia 

The Dreamt of Artists of Four Centuries Seem to Have Furnished the Inspiration 
for the Beautiful Quinta Urrutia, with Its Open-air Reception 

Rooms and House of Jewek 

A noval summer house, constructed of 
Johnson & Johnson Iodoform Gauze jars, 
adorns the grounds. The walls of this 
house were made by filling the jars with 



Picturesque in its surroundings and 
unusual in its appointments is the res- 
idence and office of Dr. Aureliano Urru- 
tia, at San Antonio, Texas. The romance 
uf Mexico, the quaint architecture of the 
Aztec and the Toltec Indians, the lav- 
ish decorative art of the early Moors and 
the dignified beauty of the old Mission 
San Jose are reflected in the structure. 
Here are blended into a most harmo- 
nious realization the dreams of artists 
of four centuries. 

"Quinta Urrutia" is the inscription 
over the portal of this unique mansion, 
and it well describes the place, "quinta" 
meaning a mansion surrounded with gar- 
dens. 

The patio, or court, is a marvel of in- 
genuity. Just as long as the sun sends 
its beams to Mother Earth, this patio 
will remain a sun-flooded corridor. 

The corridor is notable for its bril- 
liant Saracenic colonnade. Majestic 
white columns rise from red cases and 
are surmounted by red capitals uphold- 
ing the horseshoe arches and their cen- 
ter above the spring line. 

Mosaic tile and broken lines, in alter- 
nating colors of white, gray and red, 
suggestive of oriental architecture, dec- 
orate the top of the cornice. 

In the center of the patio, Dr. Urru- 
tia has built a shallow fountain, recall- 
ing the famous Court de Lyons fountain 
of the Granada Moorish monument in 
Spain. 

The entrance to the building is 
through a vestibule which gives access 
to all rooms. Each room has two doors, 
the one opening into the patio on one 
side and the other into the garden on the 
opposite side. Upon the walls of the 
rooms hang paintings by Spanish artists. 



plaster and setting them upon each other 
in the form of tile brick. The amber 
color of the jars reflects a pleasing light 
from the sun and makes the house appear 
as if it were made of jewels. Twenty 
thousand jars were used in its construc- 
tion. It was not a very difficult task for 
Dr. Urrutia to collect this number of this 
particular jar, as he uses a great many of 
Johnson & Johnson's goods. 

The office is not like the ordinary of- 
fice. There is an open-air reception 
room in the corridor, and a music room 
for those who may wish to amuse them- 
selves while they are waiting their turn 
to see the doctor. There is another open- 
air reception room where men can smoke 
and talk. The beauty of the place is 
enough to drive many pains away. 

Dr. Urrutia was formerly on the staff 
of General Huerta, but during the rev- 
olution in Mexico he was obliged to leave 
that country, like many other of Mex- 
ico's noted men. His medical education 
was obtained in France. 

Dr. Urrutia's family consists of four 
sons and seven daughters. Two of his 
sons are medical students at the Tulane 
University. 

Incidentally, Dr. Urrutia uses John- 
son & Johnson catgut for his sutures and 
ligatures, and says that it is "the best 
in the world." 

Views of the "Quinta Urrutia" are 
shown on the opposite page, together 
with a likeness of Dr. Urrutia. These 
pictures give an idea of the beauty of 
the building and court. 



Red Cross Notes 



■'* Red CroM Notes 

Gauze in Rolls for Hospitals 

There in a markeil variation lit th- Game for surgica.1 uses should be es- 

Haiiie cliilh oFFered in tlie market for pecially made for the purpose; it should 

siirKical purpo^ies; the quality of the have a soft, even thread and contain no 

fibre, lirinness of thread, numlier of kind or sort of filling or dressing, and 



1 irniy^rd Icnpht Hrtt 
.1. ISmch roimd and 18-in 



scaled and stcriliied. 

threads to the inch, weight of thread, 
all varying in each hrand. In certain in- 
stances it has been found that surgical 
gauze is supplied to hospitals 30 to 33 
inches wide, although sold for full 36- 
jnch width ; and that bolts marked as 100 
yards actually measure but little more 
than 90 yards. 



it should be standardized as to mesh, 
quality and size. These requirements 
are assured in the Johnson & Johnson 
product. 

The standard mesh of Jolinson & 
Johnson gauge is as follows : 
Brunswick Gauze. . .20x12 threads to inch 

Rutgers Gauze 20x16 threads to i 

Jersey Gauze 22x18 threads to i 

Rarilan Gauze 24x20 threads to i 

Relleview Gauze.. .28x24 threads to i 
Red Cross Gaute. . .32x28 threads to inch 
Bandage Gauze 44x40 threads to inch 

All of these different meshes are sup- 
plied 36 inches wide, sterilized and sealed. 
The 25-yard rolls are packed in cartons. 
folded and rolled to 9-inch widths; the 
100-yard rolls are folded and rolled to 
18-inch widths. 

Gauze prepared 18-inch simply means 
that the full 36-inch material is folded 
once lengthwise and then wound tighdy 
in a round roll, or wound more loosely 
over cardboard which makes the oval. 



Red Cross Notes 



lOO-yard It 



width, folded bad 



The 36-inch gauze is the full yard Physicians" Descriptive Catalog 

width folded back and forth lo a yard The Physicians' Descriptive Catalog 

square. jj ^ 12S-page book containing terse de- 

Each weave is guaranteed standard scriptions and accurate illustrations of 
width, size, as to count of threads, weight 
and measure. 

Gauze in Case Lots 

In one-case lots and upwards, in one 

shipment. Johnson & Johnson surgical 

gauze in 100-yard lengths is supplied as 

follows : 

Brunswick Cauze 3,000yds. incase 

Rutgers Gauze 3.000yds incase 

Jersey Gauze 2,500yds. incase 

Rarilan Gauze 2,500yds. incase 

Belleview Gauze 2,500yds. incase 

Red Cross Gauze 2,500 yds. incase 

Bandage Gauze 2,500 yds. in ca? 

Gatize in 25 -yard length is supplied i 
case lots as follows : 

Red Cross Gauze 25-carton lol 

Belleview GauEe 25-carton loi 

Raritan Gauze 25-carton lol 

Brunswick Gauze 25-carton lol 



the principal Johnson & Johnson prod- 
ucts. Every physician should have a 
copy handy. Sent free on request. 

—A mustard plaster applied to the 
stomach region often arrests nausea and 
votniting,^.l/r7(ffVai Summary. 



In addition to thi 
Brunswick, N. J.. Johi 
mills at (."hicopce F-alls 
Ikch used for the piirp 

Upon acquiring it 
the machinery for ihc 
the whole of the plant i 
of the declaration of 
and during the war tl 
the United Slates Arm 

It may be truly s 
& Johnson at New Bn 
mills at Chicopee Fall 
have been unable to t 
when needed for their 

The plant consists 
ery is operated by elec 
Falls dam on the pre 
spindles, and nearly tw 
hundred bales of cott 
one million yards of g 

The products of tl 
ner as at the Johnson S 



iliOs at Chicopee Falls, Mass. 



Tfae spinning department of the Chicopee Falls Mills, a section of whieh 
is shown here, has eighty thousand spindles and consumes about two hun- 
dred bales of cotton a week. A pound of cotton will spin about twenly 
miles of Ihtead, The spun threads are, in turn, passed to looms to be 
interlaced and interlocked into game cloth. 

the spinning and weaving, the surgical gauze and lint is sent to New 
Brunswick to be rendered absorbent and to be made up into surgical 
dressings. 



2n2 



Red Cross Notes 



Ligatui 



ires and Sutures 

PATER II 

(Contribution from the Scientific Department of Johnson & Johnson) 

This is the second installment of a series of papers upon the nature and 
properties of the various materials which are used in surgery for ligating and 
suturini?. They have been prepared in response to numerous requests, and in 
the form presented will undoubtedly be found of service to students, nurses 
and others who have to do with this class of material. 



Historical Xotes 

It is a matter worthy of remark how 
long a road the ligature had to travel 
before it was established as the best and 
surest means of checking hemorrhage. 
It is quite probable that the first use of 
ligatures for the control of hemorrhage, 
as well as for the closure of wounds, is 
of very remote origin. 

Jubal Cain, who is credited with being 
the maker of the first crude surgical in- 
struments, is believed to have fashioned 
a form of cord made of tendon for use 
in primitive surgery. 

Rufus of Ehesus, who lived in the 
first century, was acquainted with the 
use of ligatures. 

Celsus gives to an obscure physician 
of the Alexandrian School credit for 
their discovery, and Galen mentions 
them in his writings. In any event, liga- 
tures were known before the beginning 
of the Christian era, but their use seems 
to have been obscured for many cen- 
turies. 

One of the first notices of the applica- 
tion of a ligature is given by Susrutas in 
his Ayar Vedas (1500 B.C.). 

Celsus (30 B.C.-45 A.D.) applied two 
ligatures to the bleeding vessel and divi- 
ded it between them. 

Aetius (500-550 A.D.) ligated for 
aneurysm, excising the sac, although he 
used a red-hot iron to stop bleeding in 
excision of the breast. 

Pare, the celebrated French surgeon, 
in the sixteenth century demonstrated 
the use of the ligature for tying. 



Kirkland (1721-1798 A.D.) asserted 
that "nothing can more powerfully inter- 
sect the course of the blood than a lig- 
ature." He advised the use of the liga- 
ture made of long "twelve-penny flax" 
with the end waxed so that it would pass 
through the eye of the needle. 

Sharpe, a surgeon of Guy's Hospital 
in London, suggested the use of the lig- 
ature in 1761. 

In the early use of the ligature, sup- 
puration was considered necessary in or- 
der to facilitate its removal, for which 
purpose both ends were brought out of 
the wound. Later, some surgeons cut 
off the ligature close to the knot, but it 
was discovered that the ligature, after 
performing its duty, created an irrita- 
tion and led to the development of an 
abscess. 

In 1889 Agnew stated that "the knots 
not being aseptic act as irritants, retard 
healing, provoke abscesses and are sub- 
sequently discharged from the wound. 
So the plan of cutting both ends of the 
ligature close to the knot may be re- 
garded as an unsurgical procedure." 

Philip S. Physick (1768-1837) was one 
of the early users of animal sutures. 
He used dog-skin and chamois cut into 
fetrips. 

For three centuries after Pare, little 
improvement was made in the method of 
using ligatures. 

Early in the nineteenth century silk 
was employed for buried sutures and 
for wound closure. The celebrated Dr. 
Physick, of Philadelphia, employed ani- 



Red Cross Notes 



283 



mal ligatures fhade from deer skins, 
chamois, and the so-called catgut. 

McDowell tied the pedicle in his ovar- 
iotomy cases and closed the wound with 
the ligature. 

Joseph Lister, during his experiments 
leading up to the antiseptic treatment of 
wounds, adopted buried ligatures, for 
which he used twisted strips of perito- 
neum from the ox; afterwards he used 
violin strings. 

The use of absorbable animal tissue 
for ligatures and sutures produced a 
profound impression upon the practice 
of surgery. 

Lister's method of preparing the cord 
was soaking in oils — mainly oil of juni- 
per impregnated with carbolic acid. 
Since his day hundreds of processes have 
been devised for the preparation of sur- 
gical ligatures and sutures. The final 
outcome has been the sterilized or asep- 
tic product. 

Catgut 

Catgut is not, as its name implies, de* 
rived from the intestines of felines. Its 
source is the small intestines of the 
sheep. Surgical catgut is descended from 
the musical string and it is believed that 
the ancient makers of these strings em- 
ployed the intestines of the cat and other 
animals. 

The term "catgut" is also explained 
upon the basis that the word itself was 
originally derived from "kitgut," or "kit- 
string," meaning a fiddle, and this term 
has become confused with "kit," meaning 
a little cat. But, in any event, modern 
catgut is really sheep gut. 

The ordinary manufacture of catgut 
for the purpose of ligatures or for 
musical strings belongs to a class of dis- 
agreeable industries called by the 
French "Boyauderie." Abroad it is 
considered a most unwholesome and un- 
healthful occupation, requiring constant 
supervision to abate the nuisance arising 
therefrom. 



The supplies used in the United States 
were formerly largely obtained from 
Italy, France and Germany, with a few 
from Great Britain. During recent years 
there has developed an American pro- 
duction. 

The quality of the strings produced 
is influenced by the climate and the 
condition of the animal. 

Besides musical and surgical strings, 
other articles of commerce are made of 
the same material, such as sausage cas- 
ing, strings for use in textile industries, 
racket strings, etc. 

As ordinarily practiced, in the con- 
version of a piece of intestine fresh 
from the animal the possibilities of in- 
fection and contamination are very great. 
No attempt is made to avoid infection 
and contamination, and, as a matter of 
fact, the best made strings are sold at a 
high price for other purposes than for 
surgical gut. 

Usual Process of Manufacture 

The usual process of manufacture is 
somewhat as follows : The small intes- 
tines of sheep arrive in barrels or other 
suitable receptacles. 

The gut is first washed in tubs of 
water and passed between rollers. This 
process removes the contents of the in- 
testines with some of the villi of the 
mucous layers. The intestines are then 
washed in an alkaline solution to loosen 
up the muscular and mucous layers. 

By a process of passing the intestines 
between drums, similar to a clothes- 
wringing process, the mucous layers are 
squeezed out, this, of course, requiring 
alternate washing in water and squeezing 
until the intestine is deprived of all of 
its coat save the submucous layer. 

It will at once be seen that the quality 
of the catgut depends upon the thorough- 
ness of this process. 

The villi are finger-shaped projections 
of mucous membrane composed largely 



2U 



Red Cross Notes 



of a network of capillary vessels, soft 
and spongy and of no value in the fin- 
ished string. If they are not removed, 
the string when finished is, of course, 
larger in size but materially lacking in 
tensile strength. Furthermore, as these 
villi harbor and hold numerous forms 
ft'f bacteriological life, from a surgical 
point of view their removal is essential. 

Twisting Catgut 

In the best made strings the catgut is 
split into two half cylinders, and after 
being split is again cleaned and scraped, 
and the various sizes of catgut are made 
by taking a number of tubes or half tubes 
and twisting them together. The me- 
dium sizes contain three or four strands. 

The twisting is accomplished by taking 
the wet strings from the stripping proc- 
ess, attaching one end to a clamp and the 
other end to a revolving spindle. Dur- 
ing the twisting and drying process the 
evenness is produced by gently smooth- 
ing and polishing with pumice-stone. In 
the making of violin strings the polish- 
ing, twisting and finishing is carried on 
to excess, and much of material as sent 
to the market for surgical catgut is 
really rejected violin strings. 

The entire intestine consists of prac- 
tically four coats — the serous coat, the 
muscular coat, the submucous coat and 
the mucous membrane. 

The serous coat, or peritoneal layer, 
is brittle and worthless for use in the 
string; the muscular coat consists of two, 
longitudinal and circular; the submu- 
cous coat is more or less firm and strong 
in tissue; the mucous layer, or villi, is 
a spongy mass of glandular and epithelial 
cells. 

Elements that Determine Strength 

The tensile strength of the string, 
therefore, depends upon the muscular 
and submucous layers. In the produc- 
tion of the lower grades of strings the 



tendency is to leave the mucous layers, 
or a large portion of same, as this makes 
the size but not the strength. On the 
other hand, the scraping and bleaching 
has a tendency to lower the tensile 
strength. The tensile strength is also 
influenced by several other factors. 

Sheep born in the spring and slaugh- 
tered in the early fall produce a stronger 
string. Decomposition of the gut be- 
tween the time of slaughter and the proc- 
ess of manipulation produces a weaker 
string. 

The possibility of infection and con- 
tamination in handling such a portion 
of fresh animal tissue is very great. To 
this contamination of handling must be 
added the danger of infectious material 
already existing in the sheep, such as 
anthrax and other bacilli with their 
spores and the numerous organisms that 
are found in tissue from such a source. 

Our experiments have demonstrated 
that the mucous coating abounds in or- 
ganism ferments and other products of ' 
organic life, and the spongy nature of 
the coating constitutes a lodging place 
suited to hold infection. 

It is evident that for the surgical rea- 
sons alone this coating must be removed 
to produce an acceptable catgut. The sub- 
mucous and the muscular layers are the 
strongest and the most flexible tissue. i 

The Chemistry of Catgut 

From a chemical point of view, catgut 
is a most complex albuminoid substance. 
It is an organized collagen or gelatin 
accompanied by a small amount of fats, 
resins, waxes and salts. i 

The chemical analysis of catgut throws 
some light upon its behavior under the j 
action of sterilizing agents and when 
subjected to the action of tissue fluids. 

The greater proportion of the catgut 
consists of collagen. Collagen itself 
is insoluble in almost all of the common 
reagents. It is insoluble in alcohol, ether. 



Red Cross Notes 



m 



chloroform, xylol, turpentine, oils or 
glycerin. It is readily changed into gela- 
tin upon boiling with water and espe- 
cially so in the presence of acids or al- 
kalies. 

Tannic acid and mercuric chlorid act 
upon collagen so that it is unconvertible 
into gelatin. Chromic acid, formaldehyd 
and alum produce a tanning effect, ren- 
dering the substances more or less un- 
convertible. These substances, as well 
as potassium permanganate, carbolic 
acid, and indeed all acids, in some de- 
gree act upon collagen, lessening its flex- 
ibility and rendering the substance brit- 
tle and weak. 

Alcohol abstracts the water from cat- 
gut and produces a contraction of the 
cells (coagulating the albumen), in this 
action a slight hardening being produced. 

We can readily comprehend that 
watery fluids or steam are not suitable 
agents for the sterilization of catgut. 
In the application of dry heat collagen 
is unchanged provided the catgut is ab- 
solutely free from moisture, but a frac- 
tional percentage of moisture is suffi- 
cient to act upon the collagen, and the 
tissues are cooked and rendered brittle. 

Alcohol, chloroform, glycerin and oils 
are suitable storage-media, having little 
or no action upon collagen, provided no 
moisture is present. 

Effect of Water on Catgut 

By the long-continued action of water 
(or moisture) collagen is slowly con- 
verted into gelatin, and as catgut is 
hygroscopic, if stored in an atmosphere 
where moisture is present, there will be 
detejrioration in proportion to the amount 
of moisture and the time of exposure. 

Acid fluids act upon collagen very rap- 
idly so that in a slightly acid watery 
solution a portion of the collagen is at 
once changed. 

The agents used in hardening catgut, 
such as chromic acid, alum, tannic acid. 



formaldehyd, etc., harden collagen so 
that it is changed slowly and absorption 
retarded. 

The proteids, other than collagen, pres- 
ent in catgut have an influence upon the 
tensile strength and upon the absorbabil- 
ity of catgut. The proteids are acted 
upon by water, by the salts of mercury, 
tannic, chromic and other acids. The 
action of these agents is one of coagula- 
tion by which they are rendered more or 
less insoluble and are hardened. The 
proteids in catgut are easily changed in 
the process of sterilization where heat 
is employed and where moisture is pres- 
ent. 

The proteids are also accompanied by 
their own ferment bodies which in the 
presence of warmth and moisture con- 
vert them into peptone. The salts pres- 
ent in catgut exert little or no influence 
upon the tensile strength except that the 
age of the sheep and its condition when 
slaughtered influence the amount of salts 
as well as the amount of matrix tissue. 

The Absorption of Catgut 

When catgut is embedded in the tis- 
sues by the surgeon it is subjected to a 
stream of moist fluid containing salts, 
etc. It first absorbs the moisture and 
swells, the proteid constituents being 
first to react. 

The albumin and globulin bodies are 
dissolved and all of the proteids are 
acted upon by their own ferments and 
further by the ferment of the serum in 
which they are bathed. 

Laboratory experiments indicate that 
the proteids of the catgut are changed, 
dissolved in part and possibly absorbed 
within from twenty- four to forty-eight 
hours. 

The moist fluids in which the catgut is 
embedded in the tissue are favorable to 
the conversion of collagen into gelatin, 
and this in turn is dissolved by intra- 
cellular (phagocytic) digestion. The 



Red Ctox Notes 



prcMiicc of chromic acid, tannic acid 
and other substances which have acted 
upon the catgut hinder the absorption 
(it moisture and prevent the di^!>ulution 
and chaiiRe of the proltids and collaKcn 
to the decree that tlioy may have reacted 
ujKin the catgut tis-ue. 

Again, the presiiu-e of mercuric salts, 
iodine and other anti»-plic salts hinder 
the ahsorption of catgut in a greater or 
less dexree. This is liy reason of their 
reaction upon the gut tissue and their 
influence in checking reaction of the tis- 
sue fluids surriiuniling the gut. In other 
words, they can to a degree check hydro- 
lysis and digestion. 



A knowledge of the chemistry of 
catgut tissues gives us some insight into 
the difficulties encountered in its steril- 
isation and preparation for surgical 

And only with an accurate knowledge 
of the chemical constituents of catgut 
can the sterilizing agents b« applied 
with safely or intelligence. 

The study of the chemistry of ca^t 
also gives us an insight into ultimalt 
ahsorption within the tissues. 

(TItr iicrl paper in this seriis uiH 
describe the preparation and sterilm- 
lloii of calyul.) 



Making Water One Hundred Per Cent Pure 

In the preparation of surgical dress- celt of absorbent cellulose, and that each 
ings from cotton fibre, it is of great individual cell constitutes a filter, 
importance that the water ust-d should When impure water is passed through 



chemical and organic a considerable depth of fibre, the water, 
to a degree, becomes purer, and the 
cotton, absorbing the impurities, becomes 
unfit for use. 

Very hard water is objectionable for 



This requirement will be apparent 
when it is considered that each hbre of 
ib^orbent cotton is a capillary, porous 



Red Cross Notes 



of aand three or four feet deep. In 

use in the preparation of high-grade 
absorbent cotton, not only on account 
of the reaction of the chemical used, 
but from the fact that the fibres, being 
absorbent, hold so much of the water 
that, on drying, a portion of the lime 
salts remain. 

Johnson & Johnson have solved the 
water problem by installing a com- 
plete plant for the storage, filtration 
and purification of water at their labora- 



Redintol in Bandaging 

Redintol has been suggested as a use- 
ful substance for impregnating bandages 
for wound dressing. The bandages are 
dipped into melted Redintol and applied 
directly to the wound as a waterproof 
dressing. Another method is to paint the 
surface of the finished dressing in situ 
with melted Redintol. 

The bandage is stiffened so as to form 
a support, which in some cases may take 
the place of a splint, or even a cast. 
It is weaker and somewhat more pliable, 
but very much lighter. It may also serve 
the purpose of fixing a bandage so that 
it does not slide on itself, and of protect- 



tories at New Brunswick, N. J. It is 
of the most modern construction, the 
principle involved being sedimentation 
after treatment with coagulents. 

Routine tests are made for turbidity, 
temporary hardness, color and freedom 
from coagulents. Periodical bacterio- 
logical examinations are made including 
the fermentation and lactase litmus tests. 
The laboratory tests show, almost uni- 
formly, a water 100 per cent, perfect. 



ing the surface of the bandage against 
moisture and dirt. The bandage is pre- 
pared very simply by painting the outer 
layers of the ordinary bandage with 
melted Redintol. The bandages can be 
easily removed by cutting them with scis- 

Redintol may also take the place of 
adhesive plaster, etc., tor sealing the end 
of a bandage. It may be used to paint 
the end of a bandage where it is spe- 
cially liable to become frayed or soiled, 
as at the wrist. A strip of melted Redin- 
tol may also be painted along the side of 
a bandage (o keep the laps from sliding 
on each other. 



Red Cross Notes 



Medical Journals Ejidorse First Aid Manual 



Medical journals in all parts of the 
country have enthusiastically endorsed 
the eighth revision of Johnson's Stand- 
ard First Aid Manual. Short extracts 
from some of their reviews follow: 
Practically Indispensable 

Whatever other works you may have 
on 6rst aid, you need Johnson's Stand- 
ard First Aid Manual. It is practically 
indispensable wherever injuries occur; 
being both scientific and in plain lan- 
guage it is suitable for physicians, sur- 
geons, nurses and the laity who may 
he called upon to render first aid." — 
Southern California Practitioner. 
A Valuable Work 

"The volume is certainly a valuable 
work for High Schools, Training 
Schools for Xurses, and for use as a 
text hook. We heartily commend it to 
all wishing to acquaint themselves with 
relief measures," — Medical Insurance. 



The Last Word on First Aid 
"The Manual in this revision repre- 
sents the last word on first aid treat- 
ment ; with the arrangement of methods 
and technical details it contains definite, 
practical first aid measures." — Weilcrii 
Medical Revievo. 

Will Save Physicians' Time 
"It will be of value to physicians who 
have this work to do and will save them 
many an hour of labor. It will be of 
incalculable benefit to nurses who have 
not had the training to enable them to 
ferret out their wants from the com- 
prehensive volumes." — Medical Seyitine'.. 
Concise and Simple 
"It combines conciseness and sim- 
plicity in such a way that a High School 
scholar could apply its methods, and at 
the same time it furnishes suggestions 
which should be helpful to the busy 



piVrr . 
practi' 

Medical Monthly. 

In a Class by Itself 

"We know of no work on the subject 
that presents its material in more simple, 
more comprehensive and more service- 
able form." — American Medicine. 

The Manual will be sent postpaid to 
any address by the publishers. Johnson 
& Johnson, New Brunswick, N. J., upon 
receipt of the price — 50 cents cloth bound 
and 25 cents paper bound. 



New Booklet on Bum Dressing 

Red in to 1, the paraffin -wax burn dress- 
ing, has firmly established itself with an 
ever-growing number of physicians who 
have adopted the war-taught method of 
treating burns. The technique of opera- 
tors is fully described and illustrated in 
a six teen -page booklet published by 
Johnson & Johnson. A copy of this 
booklet will be sent to any physician or 
nurse, on request. Ask for Booklet 



Red Cross Notes 



Epidemic Masks 

Gauze masks were found to be an 

effective meatis of preventing the spread 

of influenza during the recent epidemic. 

In some communities the wearing of the 



The Johnson & Johnsoi 
vorn to prevent the sprea 



Epidemic Mask 
of inRuenia. 



masks in public places was made com- 
pulsory. The Detroit Medical Journal, 
of December, 1918, quotes Dr. Woods 
Hutchinson on the subject of masks as 
follows : 

"Dr. Woods Hutchinson, of New 
Vork, said that gauze masks and vaccine 
were about the only successful methods 
of fighting^ influenza. He said quaran- 



D value. "With everyone wearing 
masks in San Francisco,' said Dr. Hutch- 
inson, 'the number of influenza cases 
was reduced from 2,300 to 300 a day 
within six days, and business went ahead 
as_ usual. They vaccinated 81,000 there 
with almost no deaths among those thus 
immunized.' The mask also served to 
control _ epidemics of whooping cough 
and chicken-pox in San Francisco, Dr. 
Hutchinson said, and should prevent 
epidemics in other diseases, as scarlet 
fever, where the germs are carried in 
the nose and throat. Dr. Hutchinson 



said the influenza epidemic, which many 
health officers believed came from the 
battle fronts in Europe, is returning 
there." 

During the recents months Johnson & 
Johnson have received a great many in- 
quiries for Epidemic Masks and, as a 
result, have devised one along the lines 
suggested by the Marine Service and the 
Rockefeller Institute, but in an improved 
form. These masks will be very accept- 
able for the use indicated. 



Literature f 

Johnson & Johns 



' Physidans 

n publish consider- 
iterest to the busy 

physician, some of which is listed below. 

Physicians and nurses are invited to semi 

tor such publications as they desire. 

There is no charge for this service. 

Handbook op Ligatures, No. 226. — 
This forty-eight-page book gives a full 
description of how ligatures are pre- 
pared, illustrates the various methods 
of packing, describes the sizes, 
strength, etc. 

HvGiENE IN Maternity, No. 41.^A 
forty- eight-page book which many physi- 
cians and nurses like to place in the 
hands of expectant mothers. It repre- 
sents the work of several eminent physi- 
cians and nurses. Will be supplied for 
distribution among obstetric patients, 
if desired. 

Blistering Time Table, No. 54. — A 
twenty- four -page Illustrated booklet 
containing concise facts about blistering. 

Camphenol Booklet, No, .^28.— An 
eight-page booklet describing the medi- 
cal and surgical uses and the germicidal 
power of Camphenol 

Chloramine-T Gau7E Folder, No. 
392. — A four-page folder, descriptive of 
a new antiseptic dressing, a product of 
war experience, 

Johnson's First Dressing for Ik- 
fants. No. 397. — Four-page folder, de- 
scriptive of this packet. 

First Aid Catalog, No. 110. — Twenty- 
page pamphlet in colors describing the 
various First Aid Outfits, 



290 



Red Cross Notes 




After- War Medical Practice 

In the American Journal of Surgery, 
Dr. Ira S. Wile states that while it is 
difficult to prophesy the farrcaching re- 
sults of military experience upon civil 
practice, it is permissil)le to suggest that 
among the gains to be notccl will be 
found a more complete articulation of 
the laboratory and clinical side of medi- 
cine, even in smaller communities where 
state aid may be required. 

The establishment of diagnostic clinics, 
and the alteration of surgical teams into 
"group medicine" would scarcely be 
surprising. 

The extension of health insurance, 
workmen's compensation laws, maternity 
insurance, ambulance zone systems, cen- 
tral dressing stations, and an increase 
of hospital facilities would in no way 
arrive unexpectedly. 

Hygiene, sanitation, prophylactic in- 
oculation, serum therapy, occupational 
therapy represent practical fields of 
effort whose status has been fixed by 
the costly experiment of war surgery. 

It is safe to assert that humanity as a 
whole has gained by virtue of medical 
military experience. There will be a 
greater expression of democracy in 
medicine and medical practice. The 
spirit of humanity, for which the war 
was fought, will be elevated through 
the greater service stimulated by the 
loyalty, devotion, enthusiasm and con- 
scientious efforts of the more than 33,000 
medical men whose service stars adorn 
the honor flag of the medical profession. 



The Care of the New-born Infant 

The conservation of infant life is one 
of the chief problems confronting the 
American people. Recognition of this 
has emphasized the great need of proper 
care of the infant at birth. The eyes, 
the umbilical cord, the mouth, nose and 



cars, and the skin of the new-born babe 
all require painstaking attention, or con- 
ditions are sure to arise that not only 
may lead to the most serious conse- 
quences but may even jeopardize the 
baby's life. 

As a practical aid to the proper care of 
the new-born infant the Johnson First 
Dressing Packet for Infants has met 
the hearty approval of the medical pro- 
fession. Simple and compact, each 
packet contains everything necessary 
for the proper dressing of the cord, the 
cleansing and disinfecting of the eyes, 
mouth, etc., and safeguarding the baby 
against infection. The practical utility 
of these First Dressing Packets has ap- 
pealed to the physician who does obstetri- 
cal work, for, better than anyone else, 
he realizes how much their widespread 
use means in "starting the baby right." 
Inexpensive in price and put up in a way 
that insures their freedom from con- 
tamination, one or more of these packets 
should be recommended by medical men 
to every expectant mother as an essential 
detail of her equipment. They are ob- 
tainable of all druggists or physicians' 
supply houses. — The Trained Nurse, 



A Censorship of Prescriptions 

In France the law permits the phar- 
macist to decline to dispense medicine 
under certain conditions. It is proposed 
to modify the law in such a way that 
the pharmacist may decline to dispense 
a medicine — even if the prescription has 
been ratified by the physician — when he 
believes there is incompatibility between 
the ingredients, or the amounts specified 
are excessive. 

It is also proposed to embrace in the 
regulations the requirement that every 
prescription shall state explicitly the sin- 
gle dose, and also the number of doses 
per day. 



Headache and Neuralgia 

aie relieved by (he nibbing in oF 

K-Y ANALGESIC 

TAe Greateleas Anodyn^ 



Repeat when necessary, washing o& the previous application 

"A SAFE, HARMLESS WAY THAT 
WORKS MOST OF THE TIME" 

SAMPLES ON REQUEST 

Non-greaay; WaleTsoluble; effective. Collapsible lubes 

Of all druggists 

"The Cleanest of Lubricants" 

IC- I Lubricating Jelly 
"The Perfect Surgical Lubricant" 
Absolutely sterile, antiseptic yet non-irritating to the 
most sensitive tissues, water-soluble, non-greasy and non- 
corrosive to instruments, "K-Y" does not stain the cloth- 
ing or dressings. 

Invaluable for lubricating catheters, colon and reclal 
tubes, specula, sounds and whenever aseptic or surgical 
lubrication is required. 

Collapsible tubes. Of all druggists. 

SAMPLES ON REQUEST 

VAN HORN & SAWTELL DEPARTMENT 
New Bnmswick. N. J.. U. S. A. 



RED CROSS NOTES 



COPYRIGHT, 1919, BY JOHNSON & JOHNSON 



Series VII NEW BRUNSWICK, N. J. Number Twelve 

Fred B. Kilmer, Editor 

This publication is issued from the laboratories of the publishers with the intent to 
give, in brief, items of interest and reports of original research along the line of the 
particular branches of the art in which they labor. 

Persons receiving Red Cross Notes will confer a favor by notifying the publishers of 
any inaccuracy in the address on the wrapper and of any change of their address. 



The Importance of a Knowledge of Catgut 

The choice of sutures has too often been a mat^ter of expedi- 
ence, and as a consequence the surgeon in many a tase has used 
catg-ut concerning which he had a woeful lack, of information. 
The suture material was apt to be considered as "merely a 
detail/' and the busy surgeon felt that he had no time to give 
to the multiplicity of details that surround his daily work. Some 
one else had looked after the routine. 

But the conscientious surgeon today fully realizes the im- 
portant and serious relationship existing between surgery and 
suture material, and he wishes to work with a full knowledge of 
the character of the materials he is using. He knows that he 
must keep in touch, by personal inquiry and investigation, with 
the status of so important a detail as the catgut he uses. 

An interesting contribution to this subject is now running 
in the pages of the Notes under the general heading "Ligatures 
and Sutures." This series of articles, the third of which appears 
in this issue, was prepared by the Scientific Department of John- 
son & Johnson primarily for the instruction of nurses and stu- 
dents, but it should prove helpful to the surgeon himself. 

As to the qualifications of the Scientific Department to han- 
dle this broad and complex subject, it need only be said that it 
has devoted over a quarter of a century to solving catgut prob- 
lems. It has conducted practical laboratory demonstrations of 
every known and suggested method of preparing catgut ligatures. 
It has learned, through years of constant investigation, methods 
of preparation that assure absolute sterilization and perfect 
absorption of catgut — methods that have earned for Johnson & 
Johnson suture material the complete confidence of the profession. 

A free discussion of ligatures and sutures, such as this series 
of articles offers, must be interesting and helpful to the profes- 
sion. It will clear up questions that often arise as to the physical 
and chemical properties of this substance called catgut — a sub- 
stance so delicate, so perishable, and so susceptible to infection, 
but a substance which science has learned to twist into clean, 
sterile and strong suture material. 



296 



Red Cross Notes 



Medicine of To-Monrow 

Dr. Wile Interprets Its Meaning and Opportunities in the Li^t of the Trans- 

Whick Has Carried Medical Practice from the Old Order of 
the Care of the Individual to the More Efficient Methods of 
Attacking Ilbess and Accidents Upon a Larger Scale 

Ira S. Wile, M.D. 



Times and customs change. Medi- 
cine forms no exception to the rule, 
but through change comes progress. The 
practice of medicine in the twentieth 
century already evidences numerous al- 
terations in character, and tendencies 
now noted bid fair to alter still further 
medical practice. 

With the higher standards of educa- 
tion required for entrance into Class 
A medical colleges, the demand for 
cultivated, trained physicians is exem- 
plified. To counteract the number of 
years involved in securing an adequate 
professional education and experience, 
some revisions of educational proced- 
ure are sought. With two years saved 
in elementary education, with possibly 
another one eliminated from secondary 
schools, and with a six year combined 
college and professional course, and at 
least one year mandatory hospital ser- 
vice, it will be possible for the future 
physician-to-be, entering school at the 
age of six, to be prepared to take up 
his life work at the age of 22 years. 

The necessity for modifying our 
methods of professional training is more 
pronounced in \ic\w of the transforma- 
tion which medical practice is under- 
going. The vast competitive scheme of 
practice is becoming subject to new 
forms, making for co-operation. The 
tendencies to national unity in public 
health work are obvious in the co-opera- 
tive interaction of the United States 
Public Health Service, the American 
Red Cross Society, State Departments 
of Health, and County and Municipal 



Health Organizations, which are work- 
ing more closely along definite plans in- 
volving a higher degree of harmonious 
effort. Similarly, numerous national so- 
cieties are spreading their programs 
upon the minutes of state and national 
health organizations. They are seek- 
ing to impress the profession in general 
with the urgency of their demands, 
while calling upon the laity for assist- 
ance in every direction to aid humanity 
to escape the perils and evils which they 
seek to combat. 

The Growth of the Community Idea. 

It is natural that out of a world cata- 
clysm there should grow a higher re- 
spect for man. It is unthinkable that 
after the antisocial devastations and 
ravages of war, the sense of brother- 
hood should be dulled and callous. So- 
ciety perceives the error of its way, 
and now seeks to re-establish medical 
practice upon broad social lines. The 
spirit of the community, the spirit of 
the state, the spirit of the Nation are 
invoked in judgment upon measures 
seeking to conserve men, women and 
children, the makers of the future. 

One may point out lines along which 
evolution is most marked, although the 
beginnings were evident before there 
was familiarity with such names as 
Joffre, Haig, Hindenburg and Pershing. 
There has been a growth in the com- 
munity idea, which involves an exten- 
sion of all facilities for the protection 
and care of the diseased and disabled 
citizens, who are penalized and might 
in turn punish the public. There will 



L 



Red Cross Notes 



297 



be a continued growth of community 
hospitals and dispensaries, with the ex- 
tension of higfhly specialized hospitals 
in the utilization of which many com- 
munities will co-operate. As state hos- 
pitals for the insane have grown in num- 
ber, so it is not unlikely to find state 
institutions for the care of orthopedic 
defects and the rehabilitation of those 
injured in industry. The development 
of venereal disease clinics, under city, 
state and federal auspices, is a further 
evidence of work in this direction. 

Social Health Measures. 

Social responsibility, which demands 
that industry carry its own particular 
burdens, is sufficient reason for the con- 
tinued progress in the establishment of 
first aid stations, hospitals and dispen- 
sary services by corporations employ- 
ing large numbers of workers. The 
wider interest manifest in industrial 
welfare from the standpoint of health 
is patent in the recent establishment of 
a Division of Industrial Hygiene and 
Medicine, under the auspices of federal 
service. Probably no field of medicine 
will manifest greater alteration during 
the next decade than preventive medicine 
as applied to industrial life. 

While social insurance of various 
types is still a moot question, the de- 
mand for its adoption is apparently in- 
creasing. In addition to employers lia- 
bility or workmen's compensation acts, 
there probably will be evolved systems 
of sickness insurance, old age pensions, 
maternity insurance, and similar enact- 
ments designed to benefit the vitality and 
comfort of the masses. As social health 
measures, too, one notes forms of legis- 
lation calculated to affect hours of la- 
bor, minimum wage standards, and simi- 
lar indirect health benefits tending to 
aflFect all branches of society. 

As further indications of the larger 
co-operative agencies seeking to bene- 



fit public health, one need but mention 
such national organizations as those cre- 
ated for the control of tuberculosis, 
cancer, venereal diseases, the preven- 
tion of blindness, rural sanitation, in- 
dustrial hygiene, and mental hygiene. 
To these may be added such definite 
trends in governmental machinery as are 
marked in the efforts to control infant 
mortality by the establishment of ma- 
ternity clinics and babies' welfare sta- 
tions. Medical inspection of schools, 
school nursing, social workers in con- 
nection with dispensaries, and the in- 
creased stress placed upon the regula- 
tion of alcohol, drugs, and the improve- 
ment of food and water supplies, along 
with general sanitary improvement are 
signposts of present and future prac- 
tice. 

The Day of Preventive Medicine. 

Such endeavors as have been enum- 
erated are prophetic. They do not clear- 
ly point out their goal, because, as prog- 
ress is made, the goal is always on the 
horizon, and, apparently, ever as disr 
tant as before. What is patent, how- 
ever, is that the medical profession is 
already undergoing profound alterations. 
The medical practitioners of to-morrow 
will not have the same problems to deal 
with as those practicing to-day. One 
need but recall the gradual decrease in 
various types of diseases which in for- 
mer generations served to constitute 
the bulk of medical practice. The se- 
vere cases of Potts disease are rare. 
The widespread devastations of syphilis 
in its most revolting types are scarcely 
seen. Typhoid fever, enterocolitis, ma- 
laria, dysentery, . smallpox, and yellow 
fever are rapidly following into the cat- 
egory of obsolescent conditions. The 
youthful graduate of to-day can scarcely 
grasp the profound changes which have 
made possible their reduction. The 
stress placed upon preventive medicine 
to-day may give an inkling to the new 



rtn 



Red Cross Notes 



licentiate of the marked strides which 
have been taken during the past two 
decades. A generation ago public 
health work was largely a matter of 
sanitation, and the vast health agencies 
now in operation were scarcely known. 
The commonest activities for the social 
regeneration of community vitality em- 
ployed few physicians twenty years ago, 
and yet the greatest opportunity of to- 
day arises in connection with preventive 
health work. 

The era of medical research has been 
continuous ; but Hke all forms of mo- 
tion, there is a wave which now has 
achieved a greater height than in previ- 
ous years, and the demand for research 
workers is not equalled by the supply 
of adequately trained investigators. 

A Demand for \ew Types of Xurses. 

The status of public health nursing, 
similarly, has affected seriously the prob- 
lems of nursing, and the call for work- 
ers in this direction is putting our train- 
ing schools to the test. The employ- 
ment of nurses in laboratories as tech- 
nicians, in hospitals as anesthetists, and 
in community service as district nurses, 
home visitors, and educators has ma- 
terially chan.e:cd the conditions of nurs- 
ing practice. Hence, to-day, there is a 
demand for new types of nurse, one 
whose training will be more specialized 
on the one hand, and another whose ex- 
perience will be principally on the side 
of practical nursing fitting her for car- 
ing for the numerous illnesses for which 
highly technical training is not an es- 
sential. 

The Importance of Social Pathology. 

Throughout the world is apparent an 
unrest. The bulwarks of government 
have been partially undermined and 
threatened by varying degrees of ignor- 
ance, poverty and disease. The cry for 
health emanates from many lands. The 
great opportunity of libertarians lies in 



succoring humanity. Disease is no 
longer regarded as merely a matter of 
infection. Social pathology is as im- 
portant as microbic invasion. In the 
eflForts to overcome ignorance and pov- 
erty, and their various natural conse- 
quences, the demand for sympathetic 
and understanding physicians is in- 
creased. Public health medicine has 
assumed a position of maximum impor- 
tance. The prevention of disease is 
recognized as a fundamental step in the 
promotion of national contentment. 

The old order of competitive medi- 
cal practice for the cure of individuals 
afflicted is slowly giving ground to the 
more effective means of co-operative 
methods of attacking illness and acci- 
dents upon a larger scale. Therapeu- 
tics is interpreted as a means of secur- 
ing prophylaxis. Prevention of human 
affliction assumes magnificent propor- 
tions. There may be fears of paternal- 
ism or objection to the ar rogation of 
medical functions on the part of govern- 
mental authorities, but it is patent that 
the larger vision of greatest usefulness 
will determine the course finally to be 
pursued. The needs and rights of the 
mass 'vill take precedence over the in- 
terests or desires of any class in the 
commtiTiity. 

With health raised in popular esteem, 
and recognized as the first wealth, it 
is readily appreciated that the conserva- 
tion of vital resources is to assume a 
place in the world, second to none. The 
growth of the public health movement 
will be rapid, and the significant changes 
now evident will be revealed in greater 
and richer content liian is at present 
discernible. 

These newer blossomings in the field 
of medicine will not enure to the dis- 
advantage of professional men. With 
greater advantages to society as a whole, 
there will be a larger measure of op- 
portunities for those called physicians. 



Red Cross Notes ^ 

Oipples: In War and Peace 

In One Year in this Country Accidents Alone Disabled Over Eight Times as 

Many as the Total Number of Our Casualties in Europe, But War 

Has TaughE Us How to RehabiUtate Thero 

If the war has taught us nothing else, 
it has taught us that the maimed indi- 
vidual need not be set down as a total 
loss to society. During the course of 
the war, when man power was such a 
precious thing, the resources of the Al- 
lied specialists were taxed to an ex- 
treme to invent methods whereby the 
injured could be restored to social use- 
fulness; and the achievements of the 
surgeons and physicians in this respect 
are a monument to their ability. Men 
with amputated arms were equipped to 
do the most skillful manual work; men 
with their limbs amputated were able to 
move about as freely as the normal in- 
dividual; men blinded by gas or in- 
juries were trained to an amazing de- 
gree of dexterity. They were restored 

to society as self -Supporting, self-re- @ Inttrnationiil Film Serrki. 

Specting individuals. Soldiers who havf lost Ihsir tight hands are 

Realizing the wonderful work that whU!^ " "^'^ " ' °'* *" *" *'^*" ' """ 
was done with war cripples, it was only 
natural that attention should be turned 
to the peace cripples, men enrolled in 
■rtie vast industrial army who have been 
maimed in the pursuit of their work. In 
the past it has been the custom to grant 
such an individual a small award and 
dismiss ihim from further thought, thus 
thrusting him upon the public as an ob- 
ject of charity and pity. It was his fate 
to pass the rest of his days as a burden 
both to himself and to his neighbors — 
a permanent outcast on the scrap heap 
of humanity. There are in this country 
to-day tens of thousands of industrial 
cripples who are the victims of an un- 
enlightened system of neglect which 
must now go the way of all wasteful, 
superannuated systems; for the lesson 
of the war points the way to making 



them once more productive, contrib- 
uting citizens of the community. 

The rehabilitation of the soldier is ob- 
viously our first duty. But just as clear- 
ly our next duty is the rehabilitation 
of the maimed members of the army 
of American workers. During the war 
about ten million men lost their lives. 
Throughout the world there is a dearth 
of men, and this at a time when men 
are needed more than ever. The wast- 
age and destruction incident to the war 
has been enormous. Every individual 
capable of working is required, in or- 
der to make good the havoc that has 
been wrought. Labor is at a premium, 
and the need of rehabilitating the in- 
dustrial cripple is more imperative than 
ever. Such a course recommends itself 



Red Oou Notes 



thereloK^ not only on seniimenul 
grounds, but on the most rational and 
practical grounds as well. 
An Appalling Rccokd of Accidents. 
Data furnished by the United States 
Bureau of Labor Statistics show that in 
one year in this country accirlenis alone 
disabled over eight times as many as 



the Firi:umfercncc covered by the movement of 

the total number of our casualties in 
Europe. These figures do not include 
those incapacitated by industrial dis- 
ease. Such a record is appalling and it 
is small wonder that the movement to 
enact legislation in favor of the indus- 
trially disabled has met with such uni- 
versal approval, particularly among 
physicians, employers, ard laborers 
themselves. It is safe to predict that 
a new era is approaching:, an era in 
which the maimed workingman will as- 
sume a place beside the maimed soldier 
as one toward whom the public had a 
solemn obligation to fulfill— and has 
proudly fulfilled it. 



There is a bright side to the neglect 
which the crippled laborer Has sufiered: 
he will be able to benefit by the won- 
derful progress th^t has been made dur- 
ing the war and by the ingenious metfa- 
ods and inventions that have been 
evolved. The process of rehabititatine 
the industrial cripple will follow prac- 
tically the same hnes as the rehabilita- 
tion of the war cripple; and those dis- 
abled by disease will in many respects 
be subject to the treatment applied to 
soldiers rendered unfit by disease dur- 
ing service. The methods employed in 
the war hospitals to reclaim incapacitat- 
ed men are becoming well known to 
the public, and these methods, perfected 
by experience, will be carried out in 
the industrial hospitals that are destined 
to take their place. 

Should Teach Self- Confidence. 

In one respect, however, the rehabili- 
tation of the wounded has been im- 
perfect, and not as well developed as it 
might have been — a consideration that 
is of even greater importance with the 
industrial cripple than the war cripple 
— and that is, in respect to the educa- 
tion of the spirit of the injured indi- 
vidual. The cripple faces life under a 
severe handicap, particularly in a social 
sense. His status has always been that 
of an inferior and he has resigned him- 
self to acceptance of that status. 

Such an admission of inferiority, en- 
couraged by the thoughtless and often 
callous attitude of his sounder fellows, 
is destructive at once of efficiency and 
self-respect ; and, the work of rehabil- 
itation should begin with a firm and in- 
sistent effort to convince the injured 
man that he can get on a par with his 
fellows, and can confidently face them as 
an equal. He must not be permitted 
to feel that he begins with the shadow 
of defeat hanging over him, that there 
Is any humiliation in his infirmity. He 



Red Cross Notes 



is turned the rotations made hy the hand 
an)- possibility of fooling the doctor. Tht 
menC as a finger stntigthener. The third : 

""eh ar™ conneclsTiLough'pul'lty ^rrai^ 
moved proportionally, 

must be encouraged to feel that there 
is no stignia upon him, that he is as 
good as the next man, and that he re- 
sumes the pursuit of his purpose with 
everything in his favor. Once his con- 
fidence in himself is restored, the steps 
that follow will be simpler and easier. 
The Importance of Physical Exercise. 

Little emphasis in the past has heen 
laid upon the importance of one item 
of progress which has developed in the 
course of studies in rehabilitation: that 
of physical exercise. Hitherto, so long 
as a patient was a bed case, he was 
given the minutest attention; but once 
he left his bed his further progress was 
left chiefly to the slow methods of na- 
ture. 

It has been the experience of experts 
that physical exercise, prescribed for the 
patient in keeping with the nature of his 
ailment, has proved a splendid ally of 
nature and has expedited complete con- 
valescence. Furthermore, it has kept 
many patients from committing errors 
which undid al! the good work that the 
doctors had achieved. Regarding the 



© Underwood & Und 
itrolled by a knob. As 



o the glov 



importance of physical 
carelessness during convalescence, Wal- 
ter D. Powell, athletic director of the 
Sixth Naval District, Charleston, S. C, 
writes in "The Modern Hospital" for 

"In both the arm^ and navy it has 
been customary to give a patient who is 
recovering a sick leave of thirty or sixty 
days, the idea 'being that the rest, change 
of scenery, and the possible visit home 
may have a valuable psychological as 
well as physical effect on his condition 
in general. In some cases this plan 
works out well, but too often men in 
the service who are granted furloughs 
rush away on the first train to their 
homes, eat anj^hing and everything at 
irregular hours, sleep in crowded, im- 
properly ventilated cars, and take cold. 
As a result many of them relapse into 
a. condition worse than the first." 

An authority on the value of physical 
exercise for convalescent soldiers. Mr. 
Powell, as the result of his experience, 
recommends that a qualified physical ex- 
pert should be added to the staff of 
every hospital. Without encroaching on 
the duties of the other heads of the 
hospital, he will supplement their work. 



Red Cross Notes 



beginning at the point where their chief 
work has been done and dealing only 
with convalescents. His duty would be 
to take charge of all patients as soon 
as they are able to leave their wards 
and prescribe certain exercises in ac- 
cordance with the need and ability of 
each individual case. 



phyaical director should see to it that 
the men have enough recreation so that 
they will have no time to brood. If 
they are contented the battle is half 
won. Keep them in the open air and 
sunlight as much as possible, and, most 
of all, teach them how to breathe pure 
air properly." 

The program pursued at General 
Hospital No, 9, at Lakewood, N. J, 
will perhaps serve as an excellent model 
for the hospitals for industrial patients 
which are sure to be a development of 
the near future. Here, too, exercise is 
regarded as of the utmost importance 
and is made compulsory for all as soon 
as they leave their beds. When the 
patient is able to get about, he is care- 



© Uidrrwofd * Ujidtrwao. 



In some cases only the simplest and 
least trying movements would be wise, 
but in many cases more vigorous exer- 
cise would be beneficial. As the men 
grow stronger, easy games such as 
cricket, quoits and volley ball may be 
recommended. Later, with the approach 
of a normal condition, basketball, hand- 
ball, boxing and wrestling may be added. 
Throughout, the patient's circulation and 
weight should be carefully observed. 
"Above all," Mr. Powell concludes, "the 



O Undirviofid & Vi 



'derviaod. 

devices for 
The foot, 



Red Cross Notes 



Wound 
Ibbcd in 



soldici 



e being taught a 



jpital. 






fully examined by a physician and is 
given a card indicating the type of ex- 
ercise that he must take. He is then 
assigned to a class and must report 
every morning. 

The Educational Hospital, 
But it is the educational hospital 
chiefly which points the way to the 
future. In industrial accidents, the in- 
jured man often is unable to resume 
the work at which he has spent many 
years and in which he has become highly 
trained. In such an event, it becomes 
necessary to help him to the choice of 
some other vocation, and the educational 
plan pursued at this hospital makes it 
possible for him to choose for himself 
rather than have his new work thrust 
upon him. A corps of experts and 
o- ope rate toward this end. 
s given great freedom in his 
itrength and his inclination 
being the determining factors, little be- 
ing left to chance. He is first con- 
sulted as to his preference and he is 
permitted to do the work he wants to 
do, provided it will not injure him. He 
remains at this work for a certain per- 
iod. Sometimes it proves too trying or 



specialist 
Them 
choice, his s 



the patient finds he has made an unin- 
teresting choice; in which case he is 
permitted to make a change, his ad- 
visors recommending the type of work 
they think might be suitable without 
making him feel that he is obligated to 
choose as they dictate. Ultimately, the 
patient finds the work he likes best and 
at which he can accomplish the most. 

It is only in rare cases that the au- 
thorities are obliged to dictate activities 
contrary to the wish of the patient, and 
this is done only with the patient's good 
in mind. At this hospital one of the 
men was suffering from an injury to the 
arm which left the fingers of his right 
hand paralyzed. He was firmly con- 
vinced that he could never use this hand. 
He was sent into the mechanical depart- 
ment and put at work requiring the con- 
stant use of the affected hand, and in 
time he found that he was able to re- 
gain the full use of the injured member. 

In an industrial hospital, an educa- 
tional department would prove especially 
valuable in that it would often help to 
convert a man's injury into a disguised 
blessing. The reason for the low pro- 
ductivity of many workers is the fact 
that they have been often compelled by 



304 



Red Cross Notes 



circumstances outside of their control 
to choose a type of work in which they 
are not interested and at which they 
cannot do their best. Often a laborer 
feels that if he only had had the means 
and the opportunity for a better educa- 
tion he would occupy a higher place in 
the world. To such the educational 
department can offer the opportunity 
to remake their lives; and if the com- 
munity pays the expense it will bene- 
fit by the increased service that the in- 
dividual will render. This department, 
as in the case of the Lakewood Hos- 
pital, can offer modern industrial, me- 



chanical or business courses to those 
who desire them; or it can offer ad- 
vanced educational work to those whose 
bent is in that direction. 

There is a well directed movement 
afoot for the introduction of a system 
of industrial hospitals for the reclama- 
tion of maimed workers which will fol- 
low the lines of the war hospitals and 
employ the valuable experience ac- 
quired there. Conscientious physicians 
all over the country are heartily in favor 
of such a step, and it is to be hoped 
that it will meet with the prompt suc- 
cess it deserves. 



Modem Treatment of Bums 



.William Senger, M.D., of Pueblo, 
Colorado, in the "American Journal of 
Surgery," states that no class of wounds 
has been treated in so many different 
ways as burns. 

Since 500 B. C. warm sterilized waxes 
have been used. Our grandmothers 
treated burns with a mixture of waxes, 
tallow and balm of Gilead buds — 
through our supercilious attitude towards 
home remedies this method was relegat- 
ed. The wax method was replaced by 
varnish, paint, carron oil, adhesive 
plaster, wet dressings and powders, 
which had as the underlying principle 
the exclusion of air. In recent years 
the open air treatment had many advo- 
cates ; through this treatment we realized 
that friction of the nerve endings, rather 
than air, was the cause of pain. 

Out of the war came the paraffin wax 
treatment. Burns treated under this 
method healed with extraordinary ra- 
pidity. We do not know why this treat- 
ment, contrary to modern surgical prin- 
ciples, produced such results. In this 
treatment we lock up foul secretions 
containing bacteria and the patient re- 
covers in half the usual time. 



Can it be that the continual protec- 
tion and the immobilization of the ten- 
der new epithelium and granulations in 
the presence of moisture give them an 
opportunity to grow so rapidly that they 
ignore the presence of bacteria and rap- 
idly overcome them by mass attacks? 

The author concludes that the paraf- 
fin treatment of burns has the follow- 
ing advantages : 

1 — Immobilizes the wound. 
2 — Protects granulations. 
3 — Stimullates epithelium: growth. 
4 — Greatly minimizes pain. 
5 — Renders subsequent dressing easy 
and healing much more rapid. 
6— Prevents excessive scar formation. 

In his judgment, third degree burns, 
unless very small, should not be treated 
by the paraffin method, but rather that 
the part should be rendered aseptic and 
the skin graft used to avoid scars. 



In the course of a year over eight 
million people receive hospital treat- 
ment in this country, at a cost of nearly 
eight hundred million dollars. 



Red Cross Notes ^« 

Ligatures and Sutures 

PAPER III 
(Contribution from the Scientific Department of Johnson Bf Johnson) 
This is the third installment of a series of papers upon the nature and 
properties of the various materials which arc used in surgery for Hgating and 
suturing. They have been prepared in response to numerous requests, and in 
the form presented will undoubtedly be found of service to students, nurses 
and others who have to do with this class of material. 



The Preparation of Catgut. 
Johnson & Johnson have entirely re- 
versed thi; slaughter house methods of 
preparing catgul. Under the methods 
of animal inspection now in vogue in 
this country we have little difficulty in 



which affect the color, strength and pli- 
ability of the tissues. 

The Initial Cleaning. 
In our process the intestines, imme- 
diately upon removal from the animal. 



This illuslralioo shows 



□rd of calgut. The black 
in the tubein order to 
acter of the tissue. 



procuring tissues from healthy animals, 
or at least those which are not infected 
with ■ tetanus, anthrax, or other organ- 
isms or grave lesions. We are also suc- 
ceeding in securing materials from ani- 
mals which as a rule give a desirable 
product. We find that in the older ani- 
mals the tissues are thicker, larger and 
darker in color. There are other varia- 
tions which are apparently dependent 
upon the breed of animal, the method 
by which it has been fed and handled, 
and still other factors— the nature of 
which are not altogether determined — 



are placed in troughs of stone or slate 
and Hushed with hot and cold water. 
Here the greater portion of the in- 
testinal contents, blood and foreign mat- 
ter, are washed away. The large in- 
testines— rthe stomacSi^ etc. — are sepa- 
rated from the smaller ones. The small 
intestines, which we use, are then placed 
in a trough or vat containing a disin- 
fectant, and at this point begins the 
true work of cleansing and disinfection. 
For days, at times for a week or more, 
the intestines are continually washed in 
disinfecting and cleansing solutions. 



Red CroM Notes 



iiaile af hca 



prd. The 



nclled throughout and 



I been thoroughly clnnsed. 
the table in the foreground 



The process, in brief, consists of pass- 
ing the intestinal tubes from one vat 
to another. The material is continuous- 
ly (lushed, squeezed through rollers and 
washed, and they emcrRc from the pro- 
cess in the shape of strings ahoul sixty 
feet in length. 












During these processes the material 

is passed through a series of rollers, the 
object of which is to loosen and scrape 
away the spongy villi layers. Further 
manipulation consists in the splitting of 
the KUl. 

Take a piece of rubber luhing, and, 
with a knife or shears, split it so that 
it IS in two halves; this will give an 
accurate representation of the process, 
except that it is done by special ma- 
chinery, whereby the material is 
stretched, as for example, over a rod, 
and an upright knife does the splitting. 
The material passes from the solution 
to the machine and is delivered into 



another solution at the completion of the 
process. 

The scraping process follows the split- 
ting process upon the split gut, as it 
precedes it upon the whole gut. It con- 
sists in drawing the gut repeatedly 
against dull edges by the means of roll- 
ers. This weakens and removes the 
mucous layers, in a measure scrapes 
them off, and has a tendency to make 
the material pliable, transparent, smooth, 
and of equal thickness. Upon the thor- 
oughness of this process depends the 
texture and strength of the finished 
strand, and it necessarily includes re- 
peated washings, flushing and final re- 
moval of all chemicals. 

At the completion of this process the 
gut is placed in jars containing an anti- 
septic solution and sent to the twisting 
laboratory. 

Twisting and Deying. 

The next stage is that of twisting. 
The smaller size guts are made by 
simply twisting one strand of the tissue 



Red Cross Notes 



After Ihe tubes sre at 
One of the high pressure s 



s is shown in the foregrai 



material, the larger sizes by two-ply, 
three-ply, etc., but the sizes further de- 
pend upon the thickness of the tissue. 
Hence, the sizing at the time of twist- 
ing is only approximate, and the 
Strands are carefully re-si zed. The 
process of twisting, or torsion, is self- 
explanatory. To simply twist any loose 
cord illustrates the process. Twisting 
can be performed with the fingers, or 
with an apparatus, one end being held 
while the other end is rotated. 

After the twisting a peg is slipped 
through a loop at each end and the cord 
is stretched out and dried. During this 
drying it is rubbed down, smoothed and 
polished. 

The above processes may be summar- 
ized by staling that they consist essen- 
tially of a continuous disinfecting and 
washing of the loose untwisted string. 
In such process the introduction of putre- 
factive material, which obtains in the 
usual slaughter house processes, is pre- 
vented, or, if present, is removed. An 



important point is to prevent decay. In 
the usual method of manufacturing 
these strings they are allowed to fer- 
ment for four or five days in order 
that the splitting and scraping may be 
more easily performed. 

The catgut is next gauged for size 
and tested for tensile strength. It is 
then packed in containers, such as tubes 
or envelopes or made into coils for the 
so-called raw gut. If it is to be im- 
pregnated with antiseptics, or chromi- 
cized, this is done before the twisting. 

Stehilization Process. 
The methods of sterilization and of 
handling ligature material in the John- 
son & Johnson Laboratory are of a 
character which places them in the class 
of highly scientific, thoroughly approved 
bacteriological procedures. The Re- 
search Laboratory is in constant daily 
touch with the manufacturing' work in 
the Ligature Department, and the pro- 
cesses used are not only constantly un- 



306 



Red Cross Notes 



der the eyes of the scientific men of this 
laboratory, but the resulting ligatures 
themselves are tested and controlled by 
them. Moreover each lot of ligatures 
18 held for test and is not released for 
sale until passed and approved by the 
Research Laboratory. 

In discussing sterilization processes 
it must be rememtxrred that different 
treatment is necessary for the different 
varieties of ligature material, and that 
no general process covers them all. 
However, certain prominent features are 
present in all processes, and the chief 
one that interests the surgeon is the 
general classification under the heading, 
"Heat Process." 

In no case is it allowable for liga- 
tures to be handled in a manufacturing 
establishment, even of the highest class, 
after sterilization has taken place; that 
is to say such handling necessarily must 
not be depended upon to keep the liga- 
ture sterile, but final sterilization must 
be carried out after the container is 
hermetically sealed. Johnson & John- 
son have made a very close study of 
the sterilization of catgut for many 
years. 

The Value of Initial Control. 

In our work we use the intestinal tis- 
sue of selected sheep. We clean and 
disinfect it thoroughly before the tissue 
is twisted to form the cord called cat- 
gut. We begin at the very beginning 
and consequently we are assured that 
we deal only with clean, sanitary ma- 
terial. At this stage of the process, 
therefore, our treatment of catgut is well 
advanced, whereas many other manu- 
facturers begin with the twisted strand 
of dirty commercial catgut. 

The Preserving Medium. 

Catgut is put up chiefly in tubes, and 
unless there is a needle with the catgut 
in the tube, chloroform is used as a 



preserving medium, for the reason that 
it is necessary, if the tubes are to be 
boilable, to have in the tubes a liquid 
that is free from water. Chloroform 
also is very strongly germicidal, espec- 
ially when heated. With catgut preliir- 
inary sterilization in hot oil is carried 
out and after this treatment the catgut 
is put in tubes, covered with chloro- 
form and the tubes flame-sealed. Then 
they are subjected to sterilization by 
steam under pressure. 

When preparing most other ligature 
material, such as silk, alcohol is used 
as a preserving medium, and the sterili- 
zation here is also carried out after the 
tubes are flame-sealed, using steam un- 
der pressure for the purpose. All of 
the methods used are such that they 
are well understood by bacteriologists in 
general, and a survey of our ligature 
work is always sufficient to convince 
any competent observer that our meth- 
ods are absolutely scientific and are 
trustworthy in every way. 

A System of Continual Sterilization. 

As a summary, the Johnson & John- 
son method for the sterilization of cat- 
gut, is a continuous series of processes, 
a system not dependent upon any isolat- 
ed act. 

1. — The immediate disinfection and 
cleansing of the raw intestines directly 
after they leave the sheep; the removal 
of the various coats of the intestines, 
leaving the submucous coat. 

2. — Disinfection (and chromicizing) of 
each gut before twisting to make the 
strand. 

3. — Twisting the guts into a strand 
under aseptic conditions. 

4. — Heat sterilization applied in kind, 
quantity and manner to effectively de- 
stroy organisms of every nature; spore 
bearing or non-spore bearing, patho- 
genic or non-pathogenic, pyogenic, and 
all organisms of every kind. 



Red Cross Notes 



309 



5. — Final sterilization after the tubes 
or envelopes are sealed. 

6. — Bacteriological verification and 
control. 

The method is a system of thorough 
and continued sterilizations, not depend- 
ent upon any one feature, nor upon any 



miraculous power of any antiseptic, nor 
upon any one degree of heat, but upon 
the combination of the whole, and every 
process, every step is rigorously con- 
trolled by bacteriological test. 

(The next paper in this series will 
describe hardened, or chromic, catgut.) 



Medical Profession Welcomes First Aid Manual 



The eighth revision of Johnson's 
Standard First Aid Manual has met 
with a cordial reception at the hands 
of the medical profession. The follow- 
ing are extracts from some of the let- 
ters received: 

Complete and Compact. 
"Johnson's Standard First Aid Manual 
seems very complete and compact, and 
I am sure will meet with a hearty re- 
ception." — William M. Harsha, M.D., 
Surgeon of Rock Island Railway. 

Saves Time. 

"Johnson's First Aid Manual covers 
in a small amount of time that which 

a large number of text books fail to 

get at all." — Drs. Alvis and Alvis, 

Surgeons C. & E. I. L C. and M. P. 
Railways, Benton, 111. 

Valuable. 
"I consider Johnson's First Aid Man- 
ual a valuable addition to my library." 
— Dr. W. F. Cobb, Lyle, Minn. 

Has the Subject Down Pat. 
"The Manual has proven a very ex- 
cellent book and has the subject dow^n 
pat."— Dr. Addison W. Baird, New York 
City. 

Practical, Understandable. 
"I find the volume eminently practi- 
cal and understandable and have perused 
it with profit. I am placing the book 
in the Nurses' Training School Library." 
— Dr. C. W. Hargeus, Chief Surgeon, 
Lutheran Hospital, District Surgeon C. 
& N. W. Railway. 



i£ 



Johnsons Standard 
First Aid Manual 



.*WMk*.< 4e 




- _-• -' ■■ - - ■■ ■>-- - mi»-iiij « < n I 



This is the way the Manual looks in its tidy 
paper cover. 



Helps First Aid Teachers. 

"I consider Johnson's First Aid Man- 
ual the most complete and concise first 
aid manual I have ever observed and 
it will be of value to me as I do some 
first aid teaching for the Grand Trunk 
Railway System and the Boy Scouts." — 
Dr. James A. Rowley, Durand, Mich. 

A Great Benefit. 

"I think you are to be congratulated 
upon Johnson's Standard First Aid 
Manual. It will be a great benefit to 
any physician engaged in first aid work 
or as a text book for industrial sys- 
tems or schools desiring to teach first 
aid. It is v.ery complete and well ar- 
ranged." — Ezra T. Goble, M.D. 



ReJ Cio8» Notes 
Surgical Lubrication 



For A long lime the cusiom of lubri- 
caling instruments of penetration, i.e^ 
•rounds, catheters, specula, etc.. has been 
practiced not only as a means of facili- 
tatiiiK their introduction, but also of 
avoiding pain, decreasing the tendency 
tn spasm, and preventing abrasion of 
the membrane. Rut it is only within 
recent years that the importance of plac- 
ing lubrication on a surgical basis has 
been understood : tn other words, that 
the faculty of tieing merely slippery or 
"greasy" was not enough. Actual greasi- 
ness. however, was recognized as a most 
objectionable feature, since it made the 
lubricant uncleanly, increased the dif- 
ficulties of removal and seriously in- 
terfered with local treatment. This 
and the constant danger of infection 
were doubtless largely responsible tor 
the dissatisfaction which at last brought 
about a change in the character of lubri- 

With the evolution of aseptic methods 
and the recognition of the need of mak- 
ing lubrication conform to surgical 
standards, the "pot of mutton tallow" 
and "jar of petrolatum" soon became ob- 
solete. In their place the practitioner 
now employs lubricants that are not 
only much more efficient in their physi- 
cal properties, but free from the features 
which made those of the past a constant 
source of danger and trouble. 

A lubricant that may be said to have 
been developed as the direct outcome 
of the insistent demand that agents used 
for lubricating purposes measure up to 
surgical requirements, is K-Y Lubricat- 
ing Jelly. 

This widely used preparation is pos- 
sessed of a high degree of lubricity, is 
non-greasy, water-soluble, and not only 
non-irritating, but notably bland and 
soothing in its effect on the tissues. 



Furthermore, it ts colorless and will 
not soil or stain the skin or clothing. 
Its water- so lability is a particularly de- 
sirable quality since it assures its easy 
removal, and permits the ready applica- 
tion of local medication. Finally, K-Y 
Lubricating Jelly is sterile and anti- 

Frora the foregoing it is apparent that 
the physician has at his command in 
K-Y Lubricating Jelly, a non-greasy, wa- 
ter-soluble lubricant that he can rely 
upon whenever aseptic or surgical lubri- 
cation is required, with absolute free- 
dom from local irritation or staining or 
soiling of the skin or clothing. 

Moreover, K-Y Lubricating Jelly is 
so soothing, cooling and emollient in 
its effect on the skin, that many physi- 
cians have found it invaluable in a wide 
variety of skin afTections, especially 
pruritus, sunburn, prickly heat, cfiaf- 
ing, sore hands and feet, and inflamma' 
tory conditions in general. 



Red Cross Notes 



An Ethical Publicity Campaign 

Johnson & Johnson Are Doing in a Big, Broad Way the Very Thing that the 
Medical Profession Wants Done 

The advertising campaign of Johnson 
& Johnson in the home magazines of 
large circulation has prompted consid- 
erable favorable comment on the part 
of the medical profession. The con- 
servative and dignified announcements, 
emphasizing the scientific care taken, in 
the preparation of Johnson & Johnson 
products, are educating the people to 
demand, when they need such prepara- 
tions for home use, the same high stand- 
ard of quality that is required in hos- 
pital and surgical use. 

In educating the people to realize the 
importance of quality and purity in ar- 
ticles tliat come in contact vtith human 
flesh, in impressing upon them the neces- 
sity of avoiding infection by using 
sterile dressings in home use, this cam- 
paign is doing in a big, broad way the 
very thing that the medical profession 
wants done. 

The service which Johnson & Johnson 
is rendering to the home, through such 
products as Red Cross Cotton, Red 
Cross Gauze, Synol Soap, Baby Pow- 
der, Camphenol and Shaving Cream 
Soap, is the central idea of the adver- 
tising. No cure-alls, no remedies, no 
medicines, no lines of treatment of dis- 
ease are offered or suggested. In all 
Johnson & Johnson publicity the policy 
has been to lay stress upon the necessity 
of sending for a physician when ill or 
when accident occurs and upon the ur- 
gency of having pure, sterile dressings 
handy for use until such time as the 
physician arrives. 

Some of the suggestions for our ad- 
vertising have come from our medical 
friends. One of them happily referred 
to the Scientific Department as "the 
sentinel at the gate," some time ago. 



ASeiitind 

at the Gdfe 




:^j^-;z * 




•*---■;- ; ,. 


,----s 










:~~~. L 




M:^ 


¥m 







Saturday Evening Post. 

being impressed with the vigilance exer- 
cised by this department in challenging 
all raw materials which enter the plant 
and all finished products which leave 
the place. 

"It is this sentinel which has enabled 
Johnson & Johnson to gatn the high po- 
sition it holds to-day in the estimation 
of the medical profession, and it is 
this same sentinel which is safeguard- 
ing the interests of the public," he said. 

In this apt simile was born the idea 
for the "Sentinel at the Gate" advertise- 
ment, which is here reproduced in mini- 
ature. The general public is being told 
how this sentinel, symbolic of a great 
laboratory organization, stands ready to 
protect their homes if they will avail 
themselves of its service. 



312 



Red Cross Notes 



Incidcnully. in all of the advertising 
the reader is urged to patronize his drug- 
gist for his supplies. The advertising 
is endeavoring to help pharmacy re- 



tain its professionalism, ^o essential to 
the full enjoyment of public confidence 
and yet so frequently overshadowed by 
the enthusiasm of commercialisin. 



Preventive Measures in the Transmission of Influenza 



Colonel Charles L)mch and Lieut. 
Colonel James C. Cumming, of the Medi- 
cal Corps of the United States Army, 
in a report as to the role of the hand 
in the distribution of influenza virus and 
the secondary invaders, reached the fol- 
lowing conclusions: 

1. Influenza, as well as the other 
so-called air-lwne or respiratory 
diseases, is essentially a hand-to- 
mouth infection. 

2. There are iriajor and minor 
modes of transmission by indirect 
contact— by the former through 
tepid mess-kit wash water, and by 
the latter through intermediate 
inanimate objects, the hand being 
the conveyor in both instances. 

3. Transmission by direct con- 
tact is only subsidiary to the in- 
direct routes. 

4. The adoption of a universal 
method of washing mess-kits in 
boiling water will enormously re- 
duce the prevalence of all mouth- 
borne infections. 

5. The prevention of the hand- 
to-mouth infections may be accom- 
plished by any measure which will 
prevent the unclean hand from 
visiting the mouth and nose and by 
the thorough cleansing of the hand 
after all such visits. 



Soap and Water- 
One of the lessons of the recent war 
has been a clearing up of our knowl- 
edge in regard to the use of antiseptics 
in surgery. While the list of failures 
is long, it is nevertheless true that there 
are certain well defined successes. 

It is stated that during the later cam- 
paigns in Belgium, it was necessary to 



6. The incubation period of in- 
fluenza would appear to be from 
two to three days. 

It would therefore seem that the 
rules adopted in the Chicago School of 
Sanitary Instruction for keeping the 
hands clean, are applicable in influenza. 
They are as follows: 

Hand washing is necessary — 

Immediately before eating. 

Immediately before handling 
foodstuffs, in course of prepara- 
tion or serving. 

Immediately after necessary 
toilet attentions. 

Immediately after handling the 
sick or articles from a sick room. 

Immediately after handling any 
dirty article. 

In washing give special attention 
to the cleansing of the spaces un- 
der the fingernails. Use lots of 
soap, warm water and a good hard 
bristle brush. 

Keep your hands clean and you 
will avoid many unnecessary in- 
fections. 

Synol Soap is one of the most efficient 
soaps for cleansing the hands. In using 
Synol the hands are made clean, and the 
germs of disease, if present, are de- 
stroyed at the same time. 



-the Great Antiseptic 

discard some of the more elaborate an- 
tiseptic methods, and to get back to 
some simple procedure. The results 
showed that cleanliness after all was 
one of the best antiseptics, and this led 
to the regular use of toap and water 
in the British and Allied hospitals. 
Capt. J. D. Hay croft, in charge of 



_»■ 



Red Cross Notes 



313 



one of the Casualty Clearing Stations 
in France, has stated that "soap solu- 
tion easily permeates and comes in con- 
tact with the whole surface of the 
wound. It acts as a mechanical cleans- 
ing agent, washing away all debris. It 
follows from this that the tissues them- 
selves are able to deal successfully with 
any infection which is left behind with- 
out the aid of any antiseptic. These 
latter cases, when treated by soap solu- 
tion, heal better than if an antiseptic 
is used." 

To these advantages surgeons are able 
to add others. Healing of wounds goes 
on without much fever, and in most 
cases the men are convalescent in ten 
days. After a day or two the swelling 
of the flesh begins to subside, redness 
disappears and healthy skin begins to 
form. As a rule it is not necessary to 
put in drainage tubes, for there is little 
discharge. Germs that ordinarily infest 
wounds are driven out with the dirt and 
succumb to the natural influence of 
cleanliness and fresh air. 

This method of treatment is regarded 



in the light of a health cure, and that 
explains the agreeable sense of comfort 
and freshness which it seems to diffuse. 
In the last few months it has been reg- 
ularly installed as a cure in the British 
Hospitals. 

To the layman it seems as if such a 
remedy as soap and water, which means 
cleanliness, was justified by almost uni- 
versal experience. It has been neglected, 
probably with a disadvantageous result, 
in these days of antiseptics, but it is to 
be hoped that its merits will be fully 
understood. 

Apart from the question of wounds 
and personal cleanliness, experience 
shows that there is little value in the 
ordinary methods of fumigation and 
disinfection unless soap and water and 
energetic use of elbows are first em- 
ployed. And this remedy is one that 
everybody can use with safety. 

Editor's Note. — Synol Soap, which in 
itself is a perfect cleansing agent, thus 
an effective disinfectant, would there- 
fore seem to be indicated as a perfect 
material for the cleansing and disin- 
fection of wounds. 



A Service That Penetrates Even Remote Corners 



The "open season" was on in the 
Adirondacks. Far away from drug 
store or hospital a well-known broker 
and a surgeon had been hunting. 

■ 

That the broker should be accidentally 
wounded was quite unforeseen. Other- 
wise the surgeon would, have been well 
supplied with bandages and absorbents. 
Instead he had only his instruments — 
pocket instruments at that. 

But in the cabin where he carried the 
wounded man the surgeon found a small 
blue package. It contained absorbent 
cotton — ^Johnson & Johnson's Absorbent 



Cotton, the kind he used in his own New 
York hospital. 

Pure, absolutely safeguarded by the 
name of Johnson & Johnson — this cotton 
gave him surprising confidence. With 
new hope of success he probed the 
wound. The operation was safely as 
well as satisfactorily conducted. The 
broker's life was saved. 

That night the surgeon thanked God 
for the reliability of Johnson & John- 
son products and for the nation-wide 
Johnson & Johnson service that 
penetrates remote corners of the earth. 



Red Cross -Notes 
A Local Analgesic of Ejicepliooal Value 



Of the many important medical and 

suriiical devclopmems of the war, says 



lulhorily, the 



that 



pnimiscs to ]>e of Rreatcsl value in gcn- 
cral [iraclici^ is recusnilinn of the special 
utility of physical methoils. This is by 
no means limited to mechanical pro- 
ccilures and appliances, hut extends to 
manual manipulations and the use of 
various local applications. 



K-Y Analgesic exerts a prompt sedative 
cfTect, relaxes spasm, decreases surface 
tension, and these, together with the 
well-known analgesic effects of its con- 
stituents, assure a relief of the local 
pain that is as pronounced as it is 
gratifying. 

The efficacy and wide range of useful- 
ness of K-Y Analgesic will, therefore, 
commend it at once to physicians who 



1 handy collapsibU tubcL 



In no direction has this trend of medi- 
cal practice proven more useful and 
effective than for the control of pain. 
Experience has demonstrated that many 
painful conditions for the relief of 
which opium or some of its derivatives 
were considered indispensable, can be 
as proini)tly and completely overcome 
by certain local measures, and without 
any of the drawbacks of the usual in- 
ternal anodynes such as suppression of 
the secretions, constipation, depression 
of the heart, habit formation, etc., etc. 

A local remedy that has been shown 
to be exceedingly effective in relieving 
the pain of rheumatism, headache, 
neuralgia, lumbago, myalgia, etc., mak- 
ing it possible in a great many in- 
stances to dispense entirely with the 
use of internal anodynes, is K-Y Anal- 
gesic. This is a well balanced combi- 
nation of camphor, menthol and methyl 
salicylate, in a non-greasy, water-soluble 

Applied over the seat of the pain, 



appreciate the growing importance of 
local applications. It is convenient, does 
not blister, can be easily washed off, and 
is notably cleanly, since it is non-greasy 
and does not soil or stain the skin or 
clothing. K-Y Analgesic can be used 
as freely as may be desired, and this, 
moreover, with the further advantage 
that it not only will not interfere in 
any way with desirable systemic medi- 
cation, but will, in many instances, tend 
to aid and increase its efSciency. 

K-Y Analgesic fills a definite and im- 
portant place in the modern armamen- 
tarium, and the more it is employed the 
more the practitioner comes to rely on 
it as a safe and dependable pain re- 



Forty thousand civilian medical men 
were mobilized for service in the World 
War. In addition seventy-two thousand 
medical men and women were enrolled 
in the Volunteer Medical Service Corps. 



Red Cross Notes 



315 



Literature for Physicians 



Johnson & Johnson publish consider- 
able literature of interest to the busy 
physician, some of which is listed be- 
low. Physicians and nurses are invited 
to send for such publications as they de- 
sire. There is no charge for this ser- 
vice. 

Handbook of Ligatures, No. 226. — 
This forty-eight-page book gives a full 




description of how ligatures are pre- 
pared, illustrates the various methods 
of packing, describes the sizes, strength, 
etc. 

Cotton and Gauze Book. — The reader 
is carried from the cotton fields to the 
hospital operating room and made fa- 
miliar with every phase of the process 
that transforms the- cotton fibre into 
the pure, clean surgical dressings. Forty 
pag^es and sixty illustrations. 

Blistering Time Table, No. 54. — A 
twenty-four page illustrated booklet 
containing concise facts about blistering. 

Camphenol Booklet, No. 328. — An 
eight-page booklet describing the medi- 
cal and surgical uses and the germicidal 
power of Camphenol. 

Chloram tJE-T Gauze Folder, No. 
392. — A four-page folder, descriptive of 
a new antiseptic dressing, a product of 
war experience. 



HYGIENE IN 

MATERNITY 



I to moth«ra gallMrad &«■ 
tiM axiMrlMMof aniiMBti 



m.x 



Hygiene in Maternity, No. 41. — A 
forty-eight-page book which many physi- 
cians and nursfi like to place in the 
hands of expectant mothers. It repre- 
sents the work of several eminent physi- 
cians and nurses. Will be supplied for 
distribution among obstetric patients, 
if desired. 

Johnson's First Dressing for In- 
fants, No. 397. — Four-page folder, de- 
scriptive of this packet. 

First Aid Catalog, No. 110.— Twenty- 
page pamphlet in colors describing the 
various First Aid Outfits. 

Contagious Disease Bulletins. — 
These bulletins are written from the 
standpoint of the best authorities upon 
sanitation and embrace the latest and 
best known methods used by Health 
Boards to combat contagious and infec- 
tious diseases. The list of Bulletins is 
as follows : 

Diphtheria and Scarlet Fever Bulletin, 
No. 28. 

Typhoid Fever and Allied Diseases 
Bulletin No. 29. 

Infantile Paralysis and Meningitis 
Bulletin, No. 38. 

Whooping Cough and Measles Bulle- 
tin, No. 40. 

Consumption Bulletin, No. 56. 

Smallpox Bulletin, No. 57. 



Red Crou Notes 



Pnirilui 
Juliana Gbaeue in Tkaineo Nubse. 

Pruritus M one of those diseases 
which the suffereT never menlions. and 
yet it may lead to very serious results. 
It means itching of the genitals and 
the anus, which has become so Rrmly 
established that the sufferer almost goes 
insane during the spasm. 

The flaccid ily of one's muscular sys- 
tem after excessive fag or strain causes 
a tendency to prolapse in the tissues 
lining the lower body cavities, and if 



pruritus has o 



bi. 



add t 



the 



I, the presence of 



itchin 



)St 



excruciatingly. The spasm lasts from 
five minutes to twenty, and can be lo- 
cally relieved by: 

(1) Small but repeated swabbing with 
spirits of camphor. (2) Very hot com- 
presses, (3) Tincture of iodine. (4) 
Smearing with K-Y. (5) Dilation of 
parts manually and exposure to air. 

Scratching is wrong, but one would 
have an iron will to avoid it. How- 
ever, deep-seated ulcers may ensue, or 
tumors in the surrounding areas, in 
the form of beads, the size of a grape, 
for instance, directly under the coccyx, 
to say nothing of cancer. 

Pruritus is supposed to be due to the 
action of the staphylococcus albus, and 
where surgical interference is necessary, 
as is very probable, the rectal cavity 
will require an enema of some solution 
safe for that very delicate tissue. 

There may be hemorrhoids, fistuli, 
tabs below the anus, fissures or parasites 
as main causes of this condition, the 
four first requiring the scalpel, the other 
general systemic as well as local treat- 
ment, the sooner the belter. Loss of 
sleep, irritability and fag react on the 
condition in such a way as to heighten 
it, as well as reducing the patient's ef- 
ficiency. 

It is any nurje's duty to point the way 



limply couldn't go wrong. 

to a consultation with a physician, when- 
ever she finds pruritus among the not 
minor evils attendant on the main case 
she is observing. It requires much tact, 
but the benefits are great. 



Wound Irrigation by Cotton Cords 

In treating septic wounds, Canestro 
(Italian) has modified the Carrell 
method by substituting strands or ropes 
of cotton instead of rubber tubes. These 
colion strands ryn from a reservoir 
filled with antiseptic placed above the 
patient, then traverse the furrows of the 
wound and emerge and drain into a 
lower receptive vessel. If the cords 
are not long enough to traverse the 
wound, then a double set may be used, 
one set from the antiseptic to the wound 
having an afferent function and the 
other set having an efferent function 
from the wound to the drainage vessel. 

'The author's method is based on his 
observations that if two vessels be taken, 
both containing hypochlorite solution 
with a difference of level between them 



Red Gross Notes 



317 



of about a meter and then connected 
with filiform strands, the fluid will pass 
from the upper to the lower vessel with 
a velocity equal to about 140 ccm. per 
hour, the velocity increasing or dimin- 
ishing according as the distance between 
the vessels; is increased or diminished. 
Also, if in one vessel a hypochlorite so- 
lution is placed, in a second vessel some 
organic fluid -such as purulent haematic 
serum and in a third water, and if the 
three vessels are put in communication 
by the cotton strands, it will be seen that 
the hypochlorite solution passes into the 
second receptacle, and from thence 
mixed with the purulent fluid it passes 
into the third. 

He claims that the cotton strands pro- 
vide a more efficacious drainage than 
rubber tubes and are less costly. 

Action of Bacteria and Antiseptics on 

Catgut 

Taylor ("Arch. Med. Pharm. Milit," 
69, 1918) reports that catgut ligatures 
in a wound may disintegrate and sec- 
ondary hemorrhage follow when the 
wound contains B. aerogenes capsulatus 
w^elchii. No other bacterium appears to 
attack the catgut, and none of the anti- 
septics modifies its elasticity or strength, 
but under the influence of hypochlorite 
solution the surgical knot becomes un- 
tied. Hence he warns against the use 
of Carrel's solution for a wound in 
w^hich. an important vessel has been li- 
gated, especially in the presence of B. 
aerogenes capsulatus. — Chemist & Drug- 
gists 

After Effect of Poisonous Gases 

Damage done by poisonous gases in 
war will not end in the fighter's dis- 
charge from the hospital. In civil prac- 
tice doctors may expect delayed effects 
of war gases for a year or more. 

This statement was recently made by 
Dr. Theodore McGraw, Jr., Lieutenant- 
Colonel in the U. S. Medical Corps. 
According to Dr. McGraw, literature on 
the subject of handling this problem 
is as yet 'scanty. The symptoms are for 
the most subjective. You will find few 
physical evidences of the damage done, 
but your patient will complain of short- 
ness of breath, a pounding heart, 
especially on exertion, and difficulty of 
breathing at night. Three methods are 



to be employed in treatment — mental 
suggestion, graduated exercises and in- 
halation of oxygen. 

The worst after effects were ex- 
pected from phosgene, although any one 
of the ten or twelve gases employed by 
the Germans was serious enough in its 
immediate action. Men of "nervous 
temperament" will suffer most from the 
late symptoms, and the psychological 
factor is highly important. 

"Large doses of hope and encourage- 
ment," said Dr. McGraw, "will be your 
most efficacious remedy. They will get 
well, and you must tell them so." 

Science in the Drama 

A five-act play was recently shown at 
a vaudeville theatre in Paris, with Pas- 
teur as the hero. The first act repre- 
sented Pasteur at the opening of the 
Franco-Prussian war. Pasteur com- 
mences his lesson with the text: "Our 
greatest enemy — the microbe." He next 
appears before the Academy of Medi- 
cine facing hostile critics. Again he is 
shown receiving the Grand Cross of the 
Legion of Honor. Other acts show the 
well-known episode of the lad bitten by 
a mad dog, and brought in for treat- 
ment. Here he creates his first triumph. 
Later scenes show the scientific hero in 
the midst of delegates from all over the 
world, gathered to pay tribute. 

The whole drama seems to be founded 
upon the struggles and the Victories of 
a scientist. 

Gauze Masks Are Effective 

Dr. George H. Weaver, in the Journal 
of Infectious Diseases, concludes that 
gauze will filter bacterial spray from 
the air if the thicknesses are in direct 
proportion to the fineness of the mesh 
and the number of layers employed. 
Three layers of gauze with a mesh of 
forty threads or more will remove al- 
most all bacteria-'Carrying droplets. Oc- 
casional fine droplets pass through. 

He, therefore, believes that such masks 
are useful when worn for protection by 
attendants on the sick and also when 
worn by the affected individual to pre- 
vent contamination of the surroundings. 
He emphasizes the fact that the use of 
masks should not lead to neglect of 
measures calculated to prevent trajisfer 
of infectious material by other means 
than by droplet <spray. 



S19 



Red Cross Notes 



Johnson's First Dressing for Infants 




x^' 



The contents of Tohnson's First Dressing for Infants, an 
outfit which meets the recommendations of the National Com- 
mittee for the Prevention of Blindness. 



Johnson's First Dressing for Infants 
is a complete outfit containing material 
for cleansing, tying and dressing the 
umbilical cord, and also material for 
cleansing the mouth, nose and eyes, in- 
cluding an ampoule of nitrate of silver 
solution for instillation into the in- 
fant's eyes when necessary. 

This outfit meets the requirements of 
the growing number of States which re- 
quire the use of prophylactic measures 
in case of babies* sore eyes at the time 
of birth. It also meets the recommen- 
dation of the National Committee for 
the Prevention of Blindness. 

The Johnson's First Dressing Packet 
contains the following items: 



One envelope containing two sterilized tapes 
for tying the umbilical cord. 

Two gauze pads (one with perforation) for 
dressing the umbilical cord. 

One package boracic acid for cleansing and 
disinfecting the umbilical cord and eyes. 

Two small gauze pads for cleansing the eyes, 
mouthy etc. 

Three pieces of sterilized absorbent cotton for 
cleansing the eyes and dressing the cord, etc. 

One ampoule of nitrate of silver solution 
(one per cent.) for instillation into the infant's 
eyes when necessary. 

One flannel binder for holding the umbilical 
cord in place. 

Three safety pins. 

One miniature package of Tohnson's Toilet 
and Baby Powder for use after the infant's 
first bath. 

One miniature bottle of Synol Soap for the 
bath, cleansing the hands, etc. 

One chart for making the birth record. 

Full directions accompany each item 
and a circular in each packet gives in- 
structions to the nurse or midwife. 



f 






r 
^ 



f 

K 

I 



^ ^S" 



"T^ 



Hid 



I 



ijtfj^) 



IhOSA 



>? 



