ANNUAL | 
REPORT 


For Employees 


For the Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 1911 


Why his eport 


Most of us have never had time to acquire the technical 
knowledge necessary to interpret the usual type of annual 
report. Your Lahor-Management Committee has, therefore, 
suggested this report to set forth clearly the plain facts 
about the company’s affairs, and to anewer some of the 
questions employees frequently ask about the business, for 
example: 


How much business did the company do this vear? 
Where does the money come from? 

Where dors it go? 

How are our pictures marketed ? 

What docs the company own? 

What does it owe? 


A better understanding of these matters and a mutual 
and continuing interest in them is a basie premise of sound 
employer-employee relations. Your Committee invites your 
attention to the following pages and will weleome your 
Comments, 


In the course of preparing this report many suggestions 
as to content were received from employees, Many of them 
have been adopted, Many seemed more applicable to a pro: 
grim of indoctrination to acquaint newer emplovees with 
organization, production techniques and other lese current 
matters, Such a program is contemplated, 

Should you desire more detailed information about the 
hnancial statements on pages 8 to 10 you may secure a bop 
ef the company's Aunual Report to Stockholders by calling 
the Personnel Department, : 


EXTENSION 871 


THE PLANT ITSELF 


eawa | 


“7 


Slt Acres of Land 
T Acres of F vy Spare in 
Cover SCH3 (400 =a. Ft.) 
25 Principal Buildings 
Which BWeee Fuilt on 
Land Costing . 2 104bA0H0 


Aton Batlding 
Cast wf 6, BE ACE 
Lad Equipment ot a Gast of 2. 2, . 30,300 
Making « Total Investment oF 2. 2.) SS, 70Mb A004 


Or An Average Investment of .  , 4. 4 @ 15a 
Pre Employee for Land, Buildings and Equipment. 


(iver SROO,000 af equipment, altheagh sill in use. bas been completely absorbed in 
cose of prior years through depreciation, Present pictures, therefore. are not chargeal 
for the gee of such equipment. 


23 


Qwor 


YEARS OF PROGRESS 


20 —Walt Disney began work in animation in Kansas City. 

1923—Walt ond Roy Disney set up shop in Hollywond. 

1926-—Built Hyperion Avenue Studios. 

1928%—Mickey Mouse horn—First cartoon synchronized with sound. Mickey 
Mouse in “Steamboat Willie,” 

1930—First international distribution comtract—comic strip started. 

1932—First use of threeeolor Technicolor in “Flowers and Trees.” 

1943—"Three Little Pigs. 

1435—Started production of “Snow White,” 

1937 First release of “Snow White.” December 21,—first short starring Donald 
Duck, 

Lo88—Started construction of Burbank studio. 

1940— Moved to Burbank—"Pinoechie” released—Preferred stock isswed— 1200 
emplowees- —“Funtasia” released, 

1941—Deeember 8 war work started -completed “Keluctant Dragon” and 
“Dumbe"—Group to South America preliminary to “Salndos” and “The 
Three Caballeros.” 

1942—Released “Rambi* and “Saludos” —heavy volume of war work, 

1943— Completed “Vietory Through Air Power"—output exceeded 200,000 feet. 
all-time high—Y4% for various Government agencies. 

1944—"“Snow White” reissue— “The Three Caballeros” completed, world pre- 
miere Mexico City, December 21. 

1M45—Twenty-filth Anniversary. 


HERE DOE 


the war, our pictures 

in about 55 countries. 

we have access to only 

f of them, The chart shows 
e relative importance of ma- 
oy areas, based on our expe- 
‘of the last two years. 

t designed for world- 
acceptance is one of our 


BOX OFFICE $1.00 


Exhibitor retains for his ex. 
penses and profit 


Distribution fee, prints, adver- 
tising 


To Disney to apply against 
negative cost and profit 


iONEY COME FROM? 


This chart shows what hap- 
pens to the box office dollar, 
based on our average experi- 
ence under percentage con 
tracts: 


Here is a pictorial breakdown 
below 


of the figures given 
he money 


showing where t 
goes. 


G OO >? 
ion of pictures and stories 


vacations, holidays & 
sick leave. 


al Administrative 
Sales Supervision 


“rr activities 


STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CO) 


GED win We Own 


Cash—less than amount required for one week's operations —. 3S 06833.14 


Notes and Accounts Receivable—mainly from Government for train- 
ing films sy ose ess FEBS 


lnventories; 


Uneompleted Stories and Pictures—the equivalent of 11 months’ 
work—does not include shelved stories und pictures which 
have heen written off as losses... 00.2... vase pLavsd sity BSR, OLDS 


Unamortized Picture Costs—of released features and shorts, to 
be deducted from revenue in fature years as amortization...  S83,90148 


Government and Commercial Pictures completed awaiting ap- 
proval before billing, will eventually become Accounts Re 


eeivable . 22... - ; : ee 177,159.83 
Film, Cels, Paper, Supplies—throughout the Studio, at cost. 98,149,900 
Foreign Funds—at their present value in U.S. Dollars ; Y7O.05 


Land, Buildings and Equipment—after deducting depreciation... 2,252,106.54 
Copyrights, Trademarks, Patents—on characters and processes... . 5,730.07 


Prepaid Insurance, Taxes and Other Advance Payments—to he 


charged to expense as they are used... ... RPE oS PN 
Total Assets Owned by the Company. ...... ..-..... _. $7,278,918.54 
Note: 


None of the obligations shown above are past due except certain Federal Income Taxes where diffe 
amortizing the cost of our feature pictures and the method of treating losses due to the war. At Ve 
not included in the above Liabilities. These accumulate at the rate of $58,125 every three months and 
dividends are paid quurterly out of the profits. However, it is necessary to retain recent profits in th 


8 


VDITION—-SEPTEMBER 30. 1944 


Amounts Owed to Others for: 


Money borrowed from Bank, ........,.--....., ....§ 527,847.19 
Unpaid Interest on Bank Loans Beas os aren 164,08 
Materials, Supplies, Services, etc. veveeees 101,903.95 
Salaries, etc,, due to Employees... , eT a et 157,732.51 
Taxes—Federal, State, Property and Other asain aheeiens fa 605,956.72 


Income Received in Advance—from Customers and Licensees, will 
be treated as income when earned Mein Recisti sc ioe 280,600,98 


Profits (less losses) on Government Pictures—have not been treated 
as income and eventually will be refunded to the Government 35,595.59 


*Nitad Litalill thle sececa nig cae ves vive cvavaeaceawecaers _.. $1,710,191.02 


CAPITAL | —owned by L800 stockholders and represented by: 


155,000 shares of Preferred Stock—an investment 

Ei rors Fhe bh w SHA TDT ES OAC EST CADRES EA $3,875,000,00 
355,000 shinies of Cumin Stock —the ownership of 

Wah, Roy and their wives acquired hefore 1940 

by leaving all prior years’ profits in the business 1.775,000.00 


$5,650,000.00 


Less; Cost of Underwriting Preferred Stock. .....—_ . 337,500.00 
Balance—the total capital invested in the business. . ..... 5,312,400.00 

Surplus Account—profits retained in the business as assets other 
than cash than ath te puepsgecs oes ; is. 256,227.52 
Total Liabilities and Capital Rae Ree Pe .$7,278,918.54 


rences of opinion exist between the studio and the Treasury Department regarding the method of 
tober 1, 1944, $813,750 of back dividends were due on the preferred stock but for legal reasons are 
must be paid before the owners can receive any dividends on the common stock. Ordinarily these 
e business to strengthen the company, 


SUMMARY STATEMENT 


OF 
2 ) Vv 
, — — Cosh — Expenses vasced Pre eb 


FOR THE YEAR (52 WEEKS) ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1941 


Revenue from Features and Shorts—uctually received in U, 5S. 
Dollars, after deduction of distribution expenses, including re- 
lease prints and distributors’ Fees ; 8 $2,470.003,.93 


Sales of Government and Commercial Pictures ' a 1.945.392.91 


Other Revenue—ineluding Licensee and Music Royalties, Comic 
Strips, Special Art Work, eto. py 387.390,45 


Total Income — . é is ? $4,802,787.29 


Amortization—the amount chargeable this year to write off the costs 
of released features and shorts over their revenue-producing life $1,783,053.77 


Costs of Government and Commercial Pictures Sold. . .... 1858,906.47 
Costs of All Other Revenue-producing Activities. - peat 228.5214 


General Administrative and Sales Supervisory Expense—less the 
portion of these expenses charged to Government and Com. 


mercial Pietares . . on ' ear 154.900,06 
Loss on operation of restaurant ae : eaEESS 19,580.46 
Interest on Bank Loans... 3% bi eee 50,536.70 
Federal Income Taxes Rey 227,000.00 

Total Costs and Expenses. . cass E .. $4,316,499.47 
as assets other than cash : : 3 $6287.82 


10 


That Ol ‘Bugaboo a 


OVERHEAD 


1. TAXES AND INSURANCE 
B% 

5. SUPERVISION AND 

CLERICAL SALARIES 2. DEBRECIATION 


3% 


se 3. PLANT OPERATION 


4. PLANT SERVICES AND MAINTENANCE 


rr 


TOTAL OVERHEAD 


$1.252.703.5% 


Production Overhead, comprising the cost of facilities and services which house 
and expedite our production, is charged to each picture in proportion to the 
umount of creative and productive salaries charged to that picture. It is made 
up of : 


1. Taxes on property and Insurance against yarious possible losses ; 


2, Depreciation to charge this year's production for this year's share of 
money already spent for plant and equipment: 


4. Plant Operation and Maintenance necessary to do a good “house- 
keeping” job and to provide heat. light, power, and water; 


4. Plant Services including telephones, traffic, transportation, and police 
protect ion: 


5. Supervision and Clerical Salaries necessary to plan, direct, and keep 
records of production, 


i 


THE HONOR ROLL 


GOLD STARS ON OUR SERVICE FLAG 


Gerald James...) 200.5265 Probes Vaeeernee eee ee Animation 
John ee OS eae ss EPA OR COS eT New York Office 
Raberts Squires sos cea cig race ne ween theneg ead , Cutting 
Burdette Sykora...,..........----- Perpcen yo 2: Asst. Direction” 


Bernard Walmsley. .......---. ie ree ODER Ce By yt (3 


Employees Who Left the Studio to Enter the 
Armed Services 


Adkins, Bertrand 
Annan, Ellen 
Anthony, Berk 
Avelar, Lupe 
Babb, Geraldine 
Bachom, Jack 
Badgley, Don 
Boker, Ted 
Barnes, Tom 
Herron, Joha 
Batchelder, Mickey 
Hean, John 
Berman, Ted 
Blair, Loe 
Biuedell, Dick 
Bodrero, Alessandro 
Bond, Herb 
Bruner, Jack 
Caen, Andee 
Calkins, Ted 
Colomius, Lars 
Campbell, Collin 
Chadwick, Ralph 
Chan, Edward Yoe 
Chicriehetti, Tony 
Clark, Mickey 
Cleworth, heie 
Codriek, Tom 
Colureve, Earl 
Connell, Del 
Cook, Ed 

Couch, Chuck 
Couch, Glean 


Couker, Poul 
Crabill, Catvie 
Cruickshank, Art 
Curtive, Don 
Davidge, Darwie 
Dingmeon, Jobn 
Elliot, Art 
Enser, El 
Paicbairn, Murray 
Forrester, Mark 
Foster, Gene 
Feeeman, John 
Gabrielson, Clarence 
George, Nick 
Geyser, Roy 
Cibeout, Bob 
Gifford, Ceorge 
Glenur, Charles 
Goepper, George 
Gonzales, Manuel 
Conzalez, Paul 
Grant, Bob 
Grou, Mel 

Gray, William 
Grows, Sam 
Gunderson, Bill 
Handley, James 
Hanson, Kenneth 
Harbough, John 
Hartman, C, Lb, 
Henkes, Howard 
Hofmann, Phil 
Holoboff, Mike 


Branch of 
Service 
Army 
Navy 
Marines 
Waves 


Ishii, Cheis 
Johneon, James 
Jobneon, Rod 
Johnston, 0.6. 


Jooes, Tom 


Kaufman, Van 
Keller, Ruy 
Kelsey, Dick 
Legg, Oliver 
Loviet, Edd 
Loftixn, Maxine 
Leokey, Hicks 
Long, Paul 
Luske, Don 
Lyford, Dick 
Mana, Red 
Marr, Bill 
Marsh, Jesse 
Marshall, Mory 
Mortin, Paul 
MeIntosh, Bob 
Metntyre, Beace 
MeKinstry, Ted 
McLaughlin, Geo. 
MoManus, Bob 
Mever-Kadon, Walt 
Miller, Dave 
Miller, Jack 
Moore, Art 
Moore, Bob 
Morrison, Burke 
Morse, Jim 
Muir, Bob 


Merchant Marine. 


Wasps 
TOTAL 


Murphy, Earl 
ave, Doyle 


O'Grady, Muephy 
Orbison, Joan 
tr Amby 


Parsons, Ferris 
Peed, George 
Peregoy, Walt 
Perez, Bill 

Perry, Bob 
Pignataro, Joe 
Pluniteigh, Ruth 
Presley, Hugh 
Provenson, Martin 
Patnam, Thor 
Ray, Gerald 
Redwine, Ernest 
Reitheriman, Woolie 
Reynolds, Betty 
Reyaolds, L. D, 
Rheinscohilil, Rett 
Richardeon, Lee 
Robinson, Keith 
Roelof, Gerrit 
Rogers, Bob 
Rogers, Wathel 
Rose, John 

Ruhl, Diek 
Sekely, Alex 
Shinn, Stan 

Silva, Freeman 


Number of 
Employees 
BS 
_ 49 


21 


165 


Skrifvars, John 
Smith, Wale 
Solis, Chico 
Southern, Bill 
Spoho, Stan 
Steck, Hal 
Stephens, Rhodes 
Stevenson, Howard 
Stewart, McLaren 
Stiffler, James 
Stokley, Bob 
Strobel, Tony 
Svendson. Julius 
Syverson, Henry 
‘Taylor, Lee 
‘Verry, Clair 
Terry, June 
Thonsas, Frank 
‘Traynor, Archie 
Vandagriff, Jor 
Voxel. Bob 
Walker, Bob 
Walker, Card 
Walker, Ken 
Weeks, Cloir 
Weterrings. Feoos 
Wheeler, Chuck 
Whitaker, Jack 
Wiler, George 
Wilken, BI 
Wolcott, Jim 
Woodworth, Truman 
Zima, John 


HOME FRONT 


NMIENT Over 100 pictures for the Army, Navy, Treasury Department, Coordi- 


nator of Inter-American Affairs and other Governmental agencies 
have heen produced since Pearl Harbor. These cost $3,077,934.59 to 
make and were billed to the Government for $3,113,530.18. This leaves 
a “profit” at September 30, 1944, of $35,595.59 which will either be 
refunded to the U. S. Treasury in cash upon completion of all Gov- 
ernment work, or will be used to absorb losses on future Government 
pictures. There are now in production about thirty war films, 


Over 1200 insigne designs have been donated to units of the Armed 
Forces all over the world, Dozens of unfilled requests are always on 
hand, 


Employees are buying bonds at the rate of $3,500 per week, Since 
March, 1942, when the payroll deduction bond purchase plun went 
into effect, total purchases have heen $769,750, maturity value. The 
Treasury Minute Man (10%) flag was earned during 1944 when 
weekly payroll deductions for bonds reached 10% of the total studio 
payroll with 919% of the employees participating. Unfortunately ovr 
purchases have dropped off from the 10% level in recent months and 
each one of us should make every effort to increase his purchases at 
once, We who live here at home surrounded by comforts and luxuries 
owe even more than can be expressed in money to our men and women 
who are facing death daily all over the world. 


Support of drives hy organized charities is indicated by the following 
employee contributions during the 1944 fiseal year. 
No. of Employees 


Charity Contributing Amount 
War Chest ; otha ietennte d = 749 $ 7,310.17 
Red Grosds os ic25 yak =o nee eee colvienuts tae 5,674.97 
Infantile: Paralysis... ~~~ ccuccsecereeee eure cae 6a 778.55 
Total Contributions... ... De Sea DA 18 76869 


A camp show unit of employee entertainers gave many shows in nearby 
camps and hospitals, including several performances of the Drama 
Group production “Curse You, Jack Dalton.” Individual employees 
have given exhibitions of sketching, as well as chalk talks and musical 
numbers for various service groups. 

The American Red Cross Mobile Blood Bank made three visits to 
the studio and 418 pints of hlood were contributed. 


These essential war activities need the continued and increased sup- 
port of all of us. 


13 


WHAT OF OUR FUTU 


In the financial statements presented in this report, our business has 
heen deseribed im cold terms of dollars and cents. However, in a lusi- 
ness as unique as ours you have to go beyond figures and make a 
deeper analysis of our affairs in order to find the real strength of the 
organization, Our business is, in reality, composed of only two main 
elements; productive facilities with which to operate, and people to 
operate them. 


Our productive facilities range from paint brushes and drawing 
boards, through furniture, air conditioning machinery, automobiles, 
cameras, sound recording channels, stages and buildings. 

The dollar value of our physical plant and equipment as presented 
in this veport is impressive. But more impressive, and of greater sig- 
nificance, is the value of our employees who constitute the real 
strength of our organization. Talent, training. experience, genius and 
vision are assets which cannot be measured in terms of dollars and 
cents nor reflected in financial statements. Yet without these values 
our business could not live and progress, 


When | started in the cartoon industry in Kansas City twenty-five 
veurs ago, the outlook was very discouraging. Cartoons hadn't at- 
tracted public faney notwithstanding the fact that live action pictures 
were already firmly established in the entertainment world, T feared 
that perhaps I had waited too long to start a cartoon studio, On the 
other hand. T came to the conclusion that if whatever product you 
make is better than the other fellow’s you will get ahead and receive 
recognition. | have always believed in that principle and have worked 
to that end, 


Operating on that premise, we in the Disney organization have come 
a long way since 1920, By always striving to maintain a high standard 
of quality in our product, we helieve we have created a feeling of 
confidence in the public mind, Besides patronizing our pictures, many 
have invested their savings with us, thereby helping to acquire the 
facilities which make jobs possible and enable us to turn out our 
product. 


My brother Roy and L have, from the start, believed in the poliey of 
building this organization for the long pull, so basically sound that it 
will endure through the years. To this end, profits have been consist. 
ently plowed back into the business, and reinvested in more productive 
facilities so that we could employ more people and tarn out more and 
better product. No dividends have ever been paid on the Common 
Stock, Weve tried to build a flexible organization and are proud of 
the fact that the versatility of our employees enabled us to do a top 
job when the Government called on us to make pictures in furtherance 


14 


of the war effort, This has been our reward for the time, effort and 
money spent in personnel training, It has proved that regardless of 
what our company is called upon to produce, we have the talent in 
our studio to produce it, 


You might well ask: “What of the future of our company? Where 
do we go from here? What about television and educational and in- 
structional films?” These are pertinent questions, 


No doubt you are anxious to know what will happen when the war 
is over. Will we have enough jobs to go around when our service men 
and women come home? Will there be a studio postwar boom or a 
depression and widespread unemployment?” These, too, are questions 
all of us have asked ourselves. 


I don’t know all the answers to these questions, by any means, but 
1 am confident that the strength, versatility and resourcefulness of our 
organization will see us through whatever problems may confront us. 
We have been working hard on postwar plans. We have thought a lot 
about television and our place in it. Television will need the same 
basic kind of entertainment the public has always demanded. Our 
program in this field will he based on the sume approach which has 
brought us success in the motion picture world—good quality enter- 
tainment. This policy, backed hy our organization, with the facilities 
available, will, I am certain, assure us an important place in television. 


Another vast potential market for our product in postwar years will 
be that of educational and instructional films. We have already done 
4 lot of valuable pioneering in these ficlds—enough to know that it 
offers our animation industry great possibilities for a volume and 
variety of picture making hitherto undreamed of—work that will be 
a continual challenge and inspiration hecause of the part it can have 
in the worthwhile job of spreading information and knowledge through- 
out the world, 


I often wonder if many of us realize the possibilities and potenti- 
alities of our medium of expression. In addition to its many other 
advantages, ours is a medium in which abstract ideas can be visualized 
clearly and understood with equal clarity by people of every language. 
These potentialities are a challenge to us all. This ic our future, 


Wott NE 


15 


——r eee 


DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS 


WALTER E. DISNEY 
President, Director & Executive Producer 


ROY O. DISNEY 
Executive Vice-President, Director & 
General Business Manager 


GUNTHER R. LESSING 
Vice-President, Director & General 
Legal Counsel 


JONATHAN B, LOVELACE 


Director 


GEORGE E. JONES 
Director 


PAUL L, PEASE 


Assistant Treasurer & Comptroller 


PAUL C. SCANLON 
Assistant Secretary & Auditor 


FRANKLIN WALDHEIM 
Assistant Secretary & Eastern Legal 
Counsel 


Walt Disney Productions, 2400 Alameda Ave. 
Burbank, California 


