The Hfth Estate 


> RADIO T EL EV IS ION CA BLE 


SATELLITE 


Broadcasting Jan4 


Katz Independent 
Television 
Committed to Sales Performance 
for independent 
Stations 


A 
x 


N 

ond 

5 А DIVISION OF KATZ COMMUNICATIONS INC 
em 


T2364 IZK NOV/92 
AL 


Out there in the universe of 
television entertainment 
something shines a little brighter. 

That something is LBS. 

For more than a decade, 
leading stations and national 
advertisers have. looked to us for 
one innovative program after 
another. And this year we're 
looking better than ever. With 
exciting first-run series and off- 
network favorites. World premiere 
movies and prime time specials. 
And all sorts of shows to delight 
the kids. 

It’s a colorful galaxy of quality 
television you won’t want to miss. 

So take a look at LBS. 

Таке a look at us now. 


'88 Shines Bright with 
Something New from LBS! 


Powermasters 
13 first-run half hous 


They're Earth's fast hope against 


evil alien f3rces...and they're 
ready for ectiorrin this explosive 
animated series for kids. 


: Care Bears and Friends at 


the Movies 

Six 90-mirule feature films 

A fun-filled package of animated 
movies, featuring the box office 

smash THE CARE BEARS MOVIE 
plus other «ids favorites. * 


LBS Spectrum 
Ғеаіше-іетдіһ films 
BONANZA: THE NEXI 


GENLRATICN, а world premiere, 4 


heads the list of six outstanding 
motion pictures-— the only major 
movie package with no рио 
network ог "heatrical exposure. 


The Story of Rock ’n’ RoIP ". 
Half hours 

Personal profiles of the legends 
and their music from the "50510 
the "805. Available summer/88. 


Long Hot Summer 
Miniseries 


27 


% 


Поп son an pr 
Shepherd, hotter ап hot in this; 


steamy 4-hour blockbuster: 
Available June "88. 


Los 


LBS COMMUNICATIONS INC, 72 
га 


NEW YORK (212) 418-3000 
LOS ANGELES (213) 859-1055 
CHICAGO (312) 943-0707 


A Stephen J. Cannell Production 


'Y TELEVENTLRES 


LOS ANGELES (213) 785-0111 « NEW YORK (212) 541-6040 


AIR UNIVERSIIY LibkAn t 
MAXWELL AIR FORCE BASE 


Vol. 114 No. 1 


Broadcasting« Jan 4 


Storer cable systems deal sets record... аз. 
Cable, telco battle over Cerritos system...» 45. 
Independents head West: INTV 1988. ...... 47. 


BIG BUY О Consortium of cable operators buy Storer 
Communications cable systems for total 
consideration in excess of $2.8 billion, making it 
largest cable deal ever. PAGE 43. 


ESPN'S FOOTBALL FINISH O ESPN's first year of 
offering its eight-game regular season NFL 
package was, by all indications, success. San 
Francisco-Los Angeles Rams game gives sports 
network eight-game, regular-season combined 


INDEPENDENT VOICE D In this “At Large" with average of 12.4 rating. PAGE 98. 


BROADCASTING editors, Association of Independent 
Television Stations President Preston Padden 
shares his views on issues, events and 
technologies shaping independent television 
industry. PAGE 47. 


TALK AROUND THE CLOCK O Beginning today (Jan. 4), 
Sun Radio Network offers AM station operators 24- 
hour national talk/information programing service. 
PAGE 120. 


EYE ON SPENDING О Radio Advertising Bureau 
president and chief executive officer, Bill Stakelin, 
tells RAB members to keep watch over consumer 
spending behavior in 1988 as barometer of 
broadcast advertising expenditures. PAGE 121. 


ON THEIR OWN O Independent stations meet in Los 
Angeles this week for their annual convention, 
revisiting 1987 and looking ahead to '88. What's 
ahead, agenda and list of exhibitors begins on PAGE 
66. 


HART BURN 0 Since announcing his intention to re- 
enter presidential race, Gary Hart has let it be 
known "that an age of television 'sound bites' 
produces bite-sized policies." Some journalists 
disagree. PAGE 123. 


FOX REPORT CARD О Fox Broadcasting Co. affiliates 
say programing is both best and worst of network's 
performance to date. PAGE 90. 


VINTAGE VIEWING © StarCast, new programing 


network for independent stations based in Orlando, 
Fla., plans to offer independent television stations 
satellite feed of 18 hours of “vintage” TV shows, 

news, sports, weather and business briefs. PAGE 94. 


POINT MAN О Washington communications attorney 
Jack Cole sees his 30 years of representing cable 
as continuous struggle against regulatory 
restraints. PAGE 143. 


At гагде...............:. 
Cablecastings ............ 
Changing Hands......... 

Closed Сїгсий............ 
Datebook ................ 


Editorials ............... 
Fates & Fortunes ........ 


The Мейіа ............... 
Monday Мето. ........... 
On Radio, .. 2o. PX 
Programing .............. 
Riding баіп............. 


Satellite Footprints....... 
Special Report............ 
Stock Іпдех............. 
Тесһпоісау.............. 
Where Things Stand. ...... 


MT 


ЕЕ 


INDEX TO ADVERTISERS: Accu-Weather 30 0 Americom 124, 1250 Audio Broadcast Group, Inc., The 260 Blackburn & Co., Inc. 122 0 Blair Television 
59 a С.В. Distribution Co. 87 О Chicago, The University of 121 0 Classified Ads 132-139 о Columbia Pictures Television 11 0 Columbia University 114 0 
Coral Pictures Corp. 31 о Evergreen Programs, Inc. 21, 64-65 о Gannett Foundation Third Cover о Samuel Goldwyn Television 8-9, 23 0 Greyhound 
Financial Corp. 126 0 Harmony Gold 113 о Ted Hepburn Co.. The 123 0 INN Fourth Cover a ТС Entertainment 91, 92-93 о Mark Kassof & Co. 1200 Katz 
Independent Television Front Cover O King Features Entertainment 95 0 King World 99 о LBS Communications, Inc. Second Cover/3 о Logica 
Consultancy Limited 27 о Lorimar Syndication 12-13, 15, 16-17, 24-25, 73, 74-75 O MCA ТУ 34-35 о Media Venture Partners 129 O MGM/UA 
Telecommunications 37, 38-39, 40-41 а Morgan Stanley 117, 118-119 0 MTS Entertainment 110-111 о NATPE International 115 0 New World Television 96- 
97 о Orion Television Syndication 67, 68-69, 70-71 О Panasonic Broadcast Systems Co. 79, 81 a Paramount Pictures Corp. 32-33, 51, 52-53, 54-55, 560 
РМС Television 42 О Professional Cards 131 а Program Exchange, The 83, 84-85 0 Radio-Television News Directors Assn. 98 © Republic Pictures 28-29 о 
Select Media Communications 105, 107, 1090 Seltel, Inc. 7 a Services Directory 130 a Joe Sullivan & Associates Inc. 140 О SyberVision 190 D.L. Taffner 
Syndication Sales 100-101 o Teletrib 102-103 a TeleVentures 4-5 a Tillinghast Reid 8 Co. 220 Edwin Tornberg & Co., Inc. 127 a 20th Century Fox Television 
88-89 O Vestron Television 77 O Worldvision Enterprises, Inc. 21, 60-61, 62-63, 64-65 


Broadcasting (ISSN 0007-2028) is published 52 Mondays a year by Broadcasting Publications. 1705 DeSales Street. N.W Washington, О.С. 20036. Second-class postage paid at Washington. D.C., 
and additional offices. Single issue $2 except special issues $3.50 (50th Anniversary issue $10). Subscriptions, U.S. and possessions: one year $70, two years $135, three years $190. Canadian and 
other international subscribers add $20 per year. U.S, and possessions $235 yearly for special delivery, $100 for first-class. Subscriber's occupation required. Annually: Broadcasting О Cablecasting 
Yearbook $105. Across the Dial $6.95. Microfilm ot Broadcasting is available from University Microfilms, 300 North Zeeb Road, Ann Arbor, Mich. 48106 (35mm, full year $55). Microfiche of 
Broadcasting is availabie from Bell & Howell; Micro Photo Division, Old Mansfield Road, Wooster, Ohio 44691 ($37/yr.). Postmaster please send address corrections to Broadcasting, 1705 OeSales 
St., N.W. Washington. О.С. 20036 


AIR UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 
MAXWELL’ АВ .FORCE- BASE, AL 
PROPERTY U. S. AIR FORCE 


MEDIA CENTRAI 
TAKES THE 
HIGH ROAD. 


KZKC Kansas City, MO 
WXTX-TV Columbus, GA 
WKCH-TV Knoxville, TN 
WZDX-TV Huntsville, AL 
KBSI-TV Cape Girardeau, MO 
WDBD-TV Jackson, MS 
WOAC-TV Canton, OH 


Media Central has built an 
outstanding station group of 
quality independents in dynamic 
growth markets throughout the 
United States. 

Now, Media Central has named 
Seltel exclusive national sales 
representative for its aggressive 
station group. 


Seltel looks forward to 
phenomenal results for Media 
Central in our new partnership. 
Together, we are on the high 
road to success. 


|| 
| 


PERFORMANCE IS THE BOTTOM LINE. 


D 1987 Seltel, inc 


1 - 
COW Ai 1. 


sys GUC lity, 


enter „папте ent. 


ОС iV pyn tras dition € CC ontinues 


mber“ Mr 


HELLO MA 
RY LO 
U: PRO 
м 2 
MICKEY ROURKE м 
DONALD SUTHERLAND pAVID CARRADINE = 
MARTIN SHEEN SUSAN BLAKELY a 
MARGOT KIDDER JOHN HUSTON ae 
TOMMY LEE JONES SAM WATERSTON за 
DYAN CAN NON z 
CHARLES DURNING November Gold 2. Only ы 
CANDICE BERGEN from Samuel Goldwyn a 
GARY BUSEY Television. Were proud г 
of the company We keep. Ж 
> 


New York Nashville Chicago 
( 30 (615) 773-5972 (312) 664-4 


Los Ang 
212) 315- 


eles 
(213) 284.9283 


m 
азо 
MS 
q 


TOR 
“АК 
IED RESP 
ONS 


————" a’ E 


* 


losectaCircuit 


Sticking by marketplace 


After two attempts late last year, FCC 
expects to take up AM stereo at first open 
meeting of new year—Jan. 14. FCC is 
expected to reject National 
Telecommunications and Information 
Administration’s request that it protect pilot 
tone of Motorola’s C-Quam system because 
of its dominance in marketplace standards 
battle with Kahn Communications’ single- 
sideband system. FCC is also expected to 
dismiss Texar petition asking for rulemaking 
to set standard. 


Summit 


In meeting to “touch base" on host of issues, 
Motion Picture Association of America 
President Jack Valenti, National Association 
of Broadcasters President Eddie Fritts and 
Association of Independent Television 
Stations President Preston Padden got 
together last week in what could hint of new 
industry alliance. Valenti, said to have 
expressed desire to sit down with Fritts and 
*go over issues of common interest," has 
solid ties with independent television 
community and may want to extend that 
bond to NAB. Issue of cable's compulsory 
copyright license and other cable-related 
matters such as must carry cropped up 
although final outcome of session was 
unclear. 


Filling holes 


Sources at ABC and Netlink said last week, 
as one put it, “Ше elements of an agreement 
are emerging" for latter to carry network 
service to dish owners in so-called "white 
areas" where signal is not available from 
affiliated station. Emerging deal is said to 
mirror Netlink's agreement in principle with 
NBC; local affiliates would have final say 
on which dish owners meet white space 
threshold, and Netlink would not deliver 
signal to any cable headend within grade B 
contour of affiliate. Network source 
stressed, however, that before it agrees to 
anything, affiliates will be briefed at 
regional meetings in February. 


Going up 


ESPN is looking at increasing advertising 
guarantee for 1988 National Football 
League package next fall. Cable sports 
service guaranteed advertisers 9 rating for 
eight regular-season games in ESPN 
universe in 1987, but schedule delivered 
10.6, despite ratings of 7.2 and 7.7, 
respectively, for first two weeks after strike 
when viewers were slow to return. Based on 


1987 performance, network is thinking of 
raising guarantee to between 10 and 11 
rating. ESPN, which reached 44 million 
homes this season, will probably be in 47 
million homes by next football time. Ad 
rates have not been set (1987 advertising 
buys were for that year only), but 
expectation is that network will seek 
compensation for increased delivery. 


Moore's new job 


Peter Moore, former executive vice 
president of Masla Radio, national 
representation firm that sold major portion 
of its station client list to Katz 
Communications and remainder to Shelly 
Katz Radio Sales last October, has 
reportedly been selected as new president of 
six-year-old Radio Network Association. 
Moore will replace Bob Lobdell, who 
resigned last year (BROADCASTING, Aug. 
31, 1987). 


min SSS 
King country 


As radio industry enters 1988, country 
music continues to top list of most- 
programed commercial formats. According 
to data compiled by Radio Information 
Center (RIO), New York, for 
BROADCASTING, country is aired on 2,468 
stations, up slightly from 2,464 last summer 
(BROADCASTING, July 27). Rounding out 
top five formats are adult 
contemporary/soft, 2,365 stations; 
contemporary hit, 825; MOR/nostalgia, 
719, and religious, 554. RIO tracks radio 
formats on monthly basis. 


He was there 


J. Leonard Reinsch, retired chairman of Cox 
Communications and currently partner in 
cable operator, National Cable Corp., of 
Palm Beach, Fla., has written book out of 
his 50 years of observation of presidential 
politics in its marriage with broadcasting. 
“Getting Elected: From Radio and Roosevelt 
to Television and Reagan” gives insider’s 
view gained as radio and then television 
director of Democratic national conventions 
and Democratic presidential campaigns 
from 1944 to 1968. Among other things, 
book discloses that although President 
Johnson had declared he would not seek 
reelection in 1968, Vice President Hubert 
Humphrey and other candidates felt he 
would find excuse to reenter race for 
nomination; Reinsch says he was directed to 
write script for convention that would 
accommodate Johnson reentry. 

Reinsch provides advice for politicians 
and parties on how to use television, speaks 
glowingly of expertise President Reagan’s 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
an 


two successful campaigns demonstrated in 
that regard. He also tells how cable 

television can help in political campaigns, 
Book will be in bookstores in late February. 


Standing pat 


AtKTLA(TV) Los Angeles, future of longest- 
running first-run sitcom checkerboard will 
not be decided until conclusion of NATPE, 
according to Michael Eigner, vice president 
and station manager. Eigner said that despite 
cancellation of checkerboard by NBC- 
owned stations and CBS-owned WCAU-TV 
Philadelphia, KTLA wants to see what new 
first-run sitcom product will be available for 
fall 1988 before determining schedule’s 
future. Eigner said that he is “optimistic” 
about first-run sitcom supply, given 
cancellation of NBC checkerboard that he 
said opens up possibility of five new 
sitcoms to acquire in Los Angeles. In 
November sweeps, KTLA checkerboard tied 
for fifth place in its time period but took 
second place in key female demographics, 
Eigner said. 


Life or death 


USIA has been directed by Congress to 
determine audience for passive programing 
of agency's Worldnet television service. 
And if study shows average daily audience 
of less than two million, funds will be cut off 
as of Oct. 1, 1988. That provision was 
inserted in authorization bill at request of 
Chairman Claiborne Pell (D-R.I.) of Senate 
Foreign Relations Committee, who is 
skeptical of USIA claims of sizable 
audiences around world (BROADCASTING, 
Dec. 14). But if Worldnet audience even 
begins to reach its potential—as measured in 
studies already done— service should have 
no trouble staying in business. One study 
shows almost 18 million sets in use in areas 
of Italy served by stations known to carry 
Worldnet programs. And report in 
Norwegian newspaper last month said 1.5 
million Norwegians could follow 
developments in Washington through 
Worldnet. 


Following Dawson 


Robert Pettit, partner with Wiley, Rein & 
Fielding and contender for FCC nomination 
won by Susan Wing, joined Department of 
Transportation last week to work in front 
office with Secretary James Burnley and 
Deputy Secretary Mimi Weyforth Dawson. 
Pettit was aide to FCC Commissioner 
Dawson for four years (1982-86). Pettit now 
has title of consultant to secretary but may 
soon get White House nomination as 
associate deputy secretary. Pettit would not 
comment on reports. 


"Theres a long tradition of smal 
town goddesses playing well in the 
big city. Mae, Marilyn and Мата» 


SYNDILATION 


QORIMAR TELEPICTUNES COMPANY 


Mamas down home charm travels 
well uptown, too. With the highest rating 
of all first-run comedies in urban A& B 
counties, shes top drawer. 

And how you gonna keep 'em down 
оп Ше farm? Easy. She's the cream of 
the crop in rural C & D counties to boot. 
With apologies to Mama, her broad 
based appeal does carry as much weight 
in Chicago as it does in Chickasaw. 

And with 110 half-hours available 
for stripping starting in spring '89, it's 
never been easier to come up and see her 
sometime. Or more fun. So put her on 


and watch her take off. 
Source: NSS MSA 86-%7 


MAMAS | 
FAREY 


A JOE HAMILTON PRODUCTION 


" “ atch bd Tole Off! 


Where Things Stands 


A weekly status report on major issues in the Fifth Estate 


Copyright 1988 Broadcasting Publications Inc. May be quoted 
with credit. 


п Solid box denotes items that have changed 
since last issue. 


AM-FM allocations. FCC amended its rules 
last November to allow approximately 800 AM 
stations on regional channels and 940 khz 
and 1540 khz to operate at night with 500 
watts. Earlier, commission had authorized 21 
of 41 АМ5 on foreign clear channel 1540 khz 
to operate at night. Actions are part of series 
of steps commission is taking to allow night- 
time or service near lowest post-sunset power 
for 1,600-1,800 of countrys 1,900 daytime- 
only AM stations. According to commission, 
more actions will follow to clear several hun- 
dred more AM's to operate at night. National 
Association of Broadcasters filed comments 
at FCC in July supporting authorizations, but 
saying FCC should authorize new nighttime 
service on interim basis until comprehensive 
review of AM interference standards in sepa- 
rate proceeding is completed. Others said 
FCC should defer action until review is com- 
pleted and new interference standards are 
adopted. 

In response to inquiry, NAB told FCC Aug. 
31, 1987, not to permit FM stations to use 
directional antennas, claiming it would lead to 
AM-ization of FM band. However, several FM 
broadcasters commenting in proceeding took 
opposite position, contending directional an- 
tennas would benefit FM radio and public. 


a 


AM Stereo, Principals in issue have been 
waiting for FCC action on recommendation of 
report released last August by National Tele- 
communications and Information Administra- 
tion that C-Quam AM stereo systems pilot 
tone be protected from possible interference. 
AM stereo issue was to be taken up at Novem- 
ber FCC meeting, but was taken off agenda at 
eleventh hour. 

Multisystem radios receive signals generat- 
ed by two incompatible systems battling to be 
de facto standard—C-Quam and Kahn Com- 
munications’ single-sideband. МПА report 
stated that while there is no inherent degrada- 
tion of sound quality in multisystem compared 
to single-system radios, implementation of 
multisystem technology is not feasible be- 
cause of lack of support among radio manu- 
facturers and dominance of single-system, C- 
Quam system in international marketplace. 

In filing with FCC in December, Kahn Com- 
munications charged that, in 1985, Motorola 
improperly blocked Sony from selling multi- 
system radios by asserting two AM stereo 
patents. Kahn further alleged that patents in 
question were improperly obtained by 
Motorola. 

Motorola dismissed Kahn's charges and as- 
serts that standards battle is over and that 
new integrated circuits in radios to be re- 


leased in 1988 will solidify C-Quam and stereo 
in general in AM marketplace. 


a 


Antitrafficking. Broadcasters last year suc- 
ceeded in beating back congressional efforts 
to crack down on perceived trafficking in 
broadcast licenses. Industry gained enough 
support to sink Senate Commerce Committee 
Chairman Ernest Hollings’s (D-S.C.) proposal 
to impose 496 transfer fee on broadcast li- 
censes transfered within three years of last 
sale (BROADCASTING, Dec. 14, 1987). Congres- 
sional interest in reinstating FCC's antitraffick- 
ing rule has been building, with other legisla- 
tion offered earlier last year in House and 
Senate that would resurrect rules requiring 
broadcast stations to be owned three years 
before sale. 


[и] 


Cable regulation. National Cable Television 
Association has unveiled survey that shows 
cable rates rose 6.796 in first six months of 
1987. Results from 598 cable systems found 
that basic rates rose, on average, 10.6%, 
while pay rates declined 2.5%. 

On Capitol Hill, survey may crop up when 
House  Telecommunications Subcommittee 
convenes oversight hearings this year (ex- 
pected to commence in February) on status of 
cable industry three years after deregula- 
tion—passage of Cable Communications Poli- 
Cy Act of 1984. Subcommittee postponed 
hearing scheduled for Oct. 29, 1987, as result 
of Wail Street slide and to take time for private 
briefings on rnatter. 

As for cables standing in courts, two feder- 
al judges in northern district of California in 
decisions issued one week apart in Septem- 
ber 1987, ruled that cities’ cable franchise 
provisions requiring cable operators to pro- 
vide access channels and universal service 
and to build and maintain state-of-the-art ca- 
ble systems are unconstitutional violation of 
First Amendment rights of cable operators. 

FCC has received comments in rulemaking 
to define more narrowly those television mar- 
kets where, in accordance with Cable Act, 
rates of cable systems cannot be regulated 
because systems are subject to effective com- 
petition. FCC opened rulemaking in response 
to U.S. Court of Appeals, which upheld FCC's 
basic ruling that effective competition exists 
where three broadcast signals are available, 
but it said that definition of available was too 
broad. Upshot of rulemaking is that fewer 
cable systems are likely to escape rate 
regulation. 


о 


8 Children's television. In response to U.S. 
Court of Appeals in Washington and petitions 
from Action for Children's Television, FCC has 
launched broad inquiry into childrens adver- 
tising. Among questions to be addressed: 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


Should FCC reimpose time limits on children's 
advertising similar to those dropped in 1984, 
and are children's programs based on toys no 
more than so-called program-length commer- 
cials and, if so, should they be somehow 
restricted? 

U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington set 
stage for inquiry when it remanded to FCC its 
1984 elimination of time limits on childrens 
advertising on ground that FCC nad failed to 
justify action with either facts or analysis. 

Some of impetus behind FCC inquiry came 
from Capitol Hill, where likelinood of Congress 
bringing up issue this year is good, especially 
іп House, where Telecommunications Sub- 
committee Chairman Ed Markey (D-Mass.) 
and Representative Terry Bruce (D-Ill.) have 
introduced bill to limit childrens advertising 
(Внолосавтімб, Dec. 28, 1987). 


D» 


m Compulsory license. FCC is conducting 
inquiry into cable compulsory license and, if 
views of FCC Chairman Dennis Patrick on 
subject are any guide, inquiry could lead to 
recommendation that Congress abolish li- 
cense. Patrick's latest comment on license 
came last November when he said FCC's 
proposal to reimpose syndicated exclusivity 
rules are based on assumption that license is 
flawed. Reexamination of license on Capitol 
Hill could occur in context of broadcasters' 
effort to resurrect must-carry requirements 
there ("Closed Circuit," Dec. 21, 1987). 

In comments on license inquiry, cable sup- 
ported retention of license, while program pro- 
ducers opposed it. National Association of 
Broadcasters softened its long-standing op- 
position, arguing that license should be left 
alone for time being. 


o 


Crossownership. Should telephone compan- 
ies be alowed to offer cable service within 
their telephone service areas? That's central 
question in FCC proceeding that could lead to 
dropping of FCC rules barring such crossow- 
nership and recommendation to Congress 
that it eliminate redundant prohibition in Cable 
Communications Policy Act of 1984. 

Not waiting for FCC, Representative How- 
ard Nielson (R-Utah) is preparing to introduce 
bill this year to eliminate statutory ban. 

Prohibitions have been in place for nearly 
two decades. FCC's telco-cable crossowner- 
ship rules were adopted in 1970 and codified 
by Congress in 1984. 

In initial round of comments at FCC, telcos 
said competition between telcos and cable 
would spur technological developments and 
reduce cable subscriber fees. Cable groups, 
opposed to letting telcos into their markets, 
said that telcos would be unfair competitors 
because of their control of poles and under- 
ground conduits and their ability to cross- 
subsidize. 


AND NOW 
A FEW WORDS 
ABOUT A VERY 
SERIOUS MATTER. 


Miller/Bovett Productions in association with Lorimar Television Miller/Boyett Productions in association with Lorimar Television A Lorimar Television Production 


SOURCE: NTI. NSS/SON «season to date through 12/6/87 


A Joe Hamilton Production 


A Witt/Thomas Production 


And just what's so serious about 
the top comedies on network and in 
syndication? Ratings. 

Lorimar’s “Perfect Strangers" 
and *' Valerie's Family" are both #1 
in their network time slots. And have 
been every week of this TV season. 

"She's the Sheriff” is not only 
the #1 new first-run comedy, it's 
also the #1 new first-run half-hour 
show. Period. 

“Мата Family" is the #1 
continuing first-run comedy. 

And “‘It’s A Living" rounds out 
our collection of 3 of syndication's 
Top 10 comedies. 

No one’s laughing at Lorimar's 
numbers. But they’re obviously 
laughing at our shows. Consistent, 
quality programming that converts 
laughs into loyalty. And roars into 
ratings. 

Comedy is more than hard 
work. It's serious business. 


Fairness doctrine update 


Congressional attempts to reinstate the fairness doctrine were soundly defeated on Dec. 21, 
1987 when proponents, faced with the threat of a presidential veto, failed to muster enough 
support to keep a fairness provision in a catch-all spending bill (the continuing resolution) 
during a House-Senate conference on the measure (BroaocastinG, Dec. 28, 1987). The 
House had added fairness to the bill in the belief that the Senate would accept it and that 
President Reagan would hesitate to veto the measure, which keeps the government 
operating (BRoAoCasrING, Dec. 7, 1987). Another congressional effort to revive fairness is 


anticipated sometime this year. 


Fairness was also addressed in a revenue-raising proposal Included in a Senate 
budget bill aimed at reducing the federal deficit. But during the floor debate, fairness was 
stripped from the bill and the proposal, which also would have imposed a tax on the 
transfer of broadcast properties, was killed (BRoAocasriNG, Dec. 7, 1987). 

The fairness doctrine was repealed by the FCC on Aug. 4. President Reagan had 
earlier vetoed a bill codifying fairness and the doctrines proponents had lacked the votes 


to override the veto in the Senate. 


Editor's note: Copies of BRoADCASTING's The Decline and Fall of the Fairness Doctrine. which comprises a full text of 
the decision, including footnores, plus blow-by-blow coverage of the historic decision and industry reaction, are 
available for $5 from the BRoapcasrisG Book Division, 1705 DeSales Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036. 


Even if FCC and Congress drop prohibi- 
tions, seven Bell operating companies would 
Still be prevented from entering cable busi- 
ness by Judge Harold Greene's modified final 
judgment in consent decree that led to brea- 
kup of AT&T and creation of seven operating 
companies. National Telecommunications 
and Information Administration has petitioned 
FCC to preempt Greene's regulation of BOC's, 
arguing that Greene is hampering ВОС5 entry 
into information services, which include cable. 
And Presidents Cabinet-ievel Economic Poli- 
cy Council is considering legislation that 
would take shackles off ВОС5. 


D 


Direct broadcast satellites. High-power 
DBS, which would use Ku-band spectrum set 
aside for it, has foundered in U.S. because of 
high start-up costs and programing dearth 
But European governments have gone ahead 
with system launchings. Arianespace launch 
of TV-Sat 1, first in French-West German DBS 
series, took place Nov. 20, 1987 (BRoADcasr- 
ING, Nov. 30, 1987), but four-channel bird may 
now be beyond help. German Information Of- 
fice in New York said latest reports from Ger- 
many include problems in addition to still un- 
deployed solar array That problem had 
German postal and telecommunications ser- 
vice, administrators of bird, resigned to oper- 
ating only two of four transponders. Now it 
appears that incomplete deployment of anten- 
na, if uncorrected, means no operations at all. 
Engine burns to try and correct problems are 
planned for February 

Despite troubles, GE Astro-Space, co-bid- 
ders with TV-Sat manufacturers MBB-ERNO 
and Aerospatiale to build Intelsat VII and Aus- 
sat-B satellites, expressed confidence in part- 
ners' product. 

Low power variety of satellite broadcasting 
resulting from scrambling of cable program- 
ing on C-band satellites has emerged from 
home satellite market. it got start in January 
1986, when Home Box Office scrambled 
feeds of HBO and Cinemax and began selling 
subscriptions to owners of backyard earth 
stations (TVRO’s), which now number more 
than 1.7 million. Number of TVRO homes sub- 
scribing to cable programing has grown as 
more cable programers have scrambled 
feeds and begun selling subscriptions direct- 


ly or through cable operators and other third 
parties. 

HBO now wants other major cable pro- 
gramers to join it in stepping up from C-band 
to medium-power Ku-band satellites that can 
beam signals to one-meter dishes. 

Despite costly failure of Comsat's high-pow- 
er DBS plans, Hubbard Broadcasting's United 
States Satellite Broadcasting and Hughes 
Communications are still trying to launch Sys- 
tems in U.S. Hughes is trying to rally support 
of cable programers around concept. 


m) 


Equal employment opportunity. FCC has 
amended its broadcast equal employment op- 
portunity rules and reporting requirements. 
Every stations EEO program will be subject to 
review at renewal time regardless of employ- 
ment profile, but FCC said review will focus 
more on EEO efforts than numbers. Stations 
with five or more employes are required to file 
detailed reports. 

FCC has adopted rules implementing EEO 
aspects of Cable Communications Policy Act 
of 1984. Under broadcast license renewal 
legislation offered last year by Congressman 
Al Swift (D-Wash.), EEO formula applicable in 
Cable Act would also apply to broadcasting. 


С 


Federal Trade Commission. Ongoing anti- 
trust investigation of National Football League 
television rights contracts now includes testi- 
mony from top network executives, including 
ABC President Daniel Burke, CBS Sports 
President Neil Pilson, NBC Sports President 
Arthur Watson and Fox President Jamie 
Kellner, as well as NFL Commissioner Pete 
Rozelle. Contradictory claims about negotia- 
tion process for Monday night games from 
Kellner and Val Pinchbeck, NFL broadcasting 
director, are among central issues. League's 
contract with ESPN for package of Sunday- 
night games was also subject of hearing in 
Senate and Senate request that Justice De- 
partment examine impact of NFLs antitrust 
exemption as it applies to cable and to look at 
ABC's ownership of ESPN and possible anti- 
trust implications (Broaocastinc, Dec. 7, 
1987). 

Ogilvy Group has requested reopening of 
1983 FTC case in which company was or- 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


dered to discontinue employment of Asper- 
creme or any other trade name for any drug 
that implies presence of active ingredient not 
actually present. 


о 


и High-definition television. Advanced Tele- 
vision Systems Committees mail-in ballotin- 
gon whether to approve formal document out- 
lining standard devised by working group of 
SMPTE on high-definition electronic produc- 
tion was scheduled to close Dec. 31, 1987. 
Standard sets parameters for HDTV produc- 
tion at 1,125 lines, 60 hertz field and 16:9 
aspect ratio. Proposal was sent to full ATSC 
membership following vote of approval by its 
ТЗ subcommittee on Sept. 30, 1987. SMPTE's 
full membership must also approve standard 
after which it will be submitted to American 
National Standards Institute. 

FCC involvement in future of HOTV grew 
with first meeting of blue ribbon advisory pan- 
el on Nov. 17, 1987. Panel of top executives of 
TV industry is upper tier of FCC's Advanced 
Television (ATV) Services Advisory Commit- 
tee. Lower tier comprises three subcommit- 
tees that are divided into working parties. ATV 
committee will produce its first set of recom- 
mendations for commission, involving spec- 
trum allocations, on May 17, 1988. Committee 
was formed as part of July 16 FCC order that 
also included notice of inquiry into HDTV sys- 
tems. First round of comments received re- 
vealed that opinion of broadcast and cable 
industries is that some form of advanced TV 
standard should be adopted and that system 
compatible with NTSC receivers is preferable. 

Executive committee of National Associ- 
ation of Broadcasters has approved formation 
of Broadcast Technology Center dedicated to 
HDTV research. Center will be under control of 
NAB Technologies Inc., for-profit subsidiary. 


D 


Indecency. At open meeting last November, 
FCC reaffirmed its get-tough broadcast inde- 
cency policy but, in doing so, created mid- 
night-to-6 a.m. safe harbor during which inde- 
cent programing can be broadcast because 
of perceived minimal risk of children in audi- 
ence. FCC is now examining several indecen- 
cy complaints substantiated by either tapes or 
transcripts. If it decides complaints have mer- 
it, it will send inquiry letters to stations in 
question asking them to answer complaints. 
Once responses are evaluated, FCC could 
impose sanctions. 

FCC decided last April to apply broader 
definition of indecency than "seven dirty 
words" of 1978 Pacifica Supreme Court deci- 
Sion, giving it far greater latitude in determin- 
ing what is indecent. At same time, FCC sent 
out warning letters to three stations. FCC reaf- 
firmation and creation of safe harbor came in 
response to petition for reconsideration from 
broadcasters seeking clarification of April 
policy. 


о 


Land-mobile. In response to petition from 
Association of Maximum Service Telecasters, 
National Association of Broadcasters and oth- 
er broadcast groups, FCC has agreed to de- 
lay decision on reallocation of UHF channels 
in eight markets in land mobile radio until 
completion of its study on advanced television 


се 


АТ SYBERVISION 


WE HAVE A 


> 


40 MILLION IV 
ADVERTISING 
BUDGET. 


And we're hungry to spend it! 


Our 30-minute television 
commercials are currently 
aired by 600 broadcasters 
weekly. We’re looking for 
at least 600 more. 


YBERVISION, the world 

leader in personal 

achievement technology, 

offers documentary-like 
commercials that are unlike any 
you've seen. The reason is the 
products we sell. All our products 
were developed by world renown 
experts after years of scientific 
research at major universities. Our 
products lend themselves to a 
documentary presentation that 
will appeal to nearly all your 
viewing audience. Enhancing our 
commercials’ appeal are our 
broadcast quality productions, 
which are equal to or above the 
standards of the television 
industry. 

We currently offer three half 
hour commercials — Weight 
Control: A Fat Free Future; Self 
Discipline: The Fire That Burns 

Within; and Journey of Discovery, 
| which tells the story of SyberVision 


| 


while introducing a wide range of 
our unique audio-video products. 
But, these are just a beginning. 
Because of the success of our 
television commercials, we will be 
developing new half hour shows 
featuring many of our more than 
40 products. We invite your station 
or group of stations to carry our 
commercials and join the 
momentum that is SyberVision. 
Here are some of the benefits 
from carrying SyberVision’s half 
hour commercials: 
1) You will increase profits for 
your station from selling us 
television time. 
2) You will add a client that is in 
television marketing to stay. 
3) Your viewers, if they follow 
what has been the norm, will have 
such remarkable success with our 
products that they will thank you 
for carrying our commercials. 
4) Our commercials have 
information value that makes 
them more like documentaries 
than commercials. Our shows have 
actually drawn rating points in 
most markets. 
5) Anyone who is not satisfied 


NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE. 


with any of our products can 
return them to us within 60 days 
for a full refund (minus shipping 
and handling) — no questions 
asked. 

So far, our commercials have 
been approved and shown by 
stations in every market in the 
country. If you aren't currently 
running SyberVision commercials, 
you can be sure that at least one 
of your competitors is. 

To share in our advertising 
budget, contact Bill Gonzales, 
Director of Media Marketing, at 
415-790-3637, or visit Bill and our 
other representatives at INTV, 
Room 727 during this show. 


S 


SYBERVISION 


The Leader in Personal Achievement Technology’ 


6066 Civic Terrace Avenue 
Newark, California 94560 


SYBERVISION IS A SUBSIDIARY OF CML 
GROUP INC., WHICH IS TRADED ON THE 


'M 


| BOOKS FOR BROADCASTERS | 


COPYWRITING FOR THE ELECTRONIC ME- 
DIA: A Practical Guide by Milan D. Meeske & 
R.C. Norris 

The best way to improve your writing skills is 
to practice, and that is the approach of this 
practical book. As the authors discuss both 
basics and specifics. keyed to the ways TV and 
radio operate today. they ofler you ample op- 
portunities to hone your writing skills in nu- 
merous realistic exercises. Topics covered 1n- 
clude broadcast vs. cable copywriting; PSAs, 
promotional and direct response spots; legal 
requirements for commercials and contests; 
getting a job in à small market or a national 
agency. Glossary and index. 

1987, paper, 380 pp $25.95 W06636-4 


MODERN RADIO PRODUCTION by Lewis B. 
O'Donnell, Philip Benoit & Carl Hausman 

The latest equipment and how to use it in edit- 
ing. news production, commercial production 
and on-air work is presented clearly and con- 
cisely in this handy guide. It offers how-to 
information you can use to create dramatic el- 
fects and hard-hitting commercials: pull an air- 
shift. mike a poor speaker, organize a complex 
production or integrate a variety of techniques 
necessary for successful news coverage. Nu- 
merous illustrations, bibliography. glossary, 
index. 


1986, hard, 258 pp $25.95 W05064-6 


AUDIO IN MEDIA, 2nd Edition by Stanley R. 
Alten 

More than just a how-to manual, this book 
covers all the sound production skills and tech- 
niques used in radio, television and film. Al- 
ten's definitive. up-to-date new edition com- 
bines teaching the proper use of audio 
equipment with the appropriate techniqes and 
aesthetics. demonstrating the relationship be- 
tween operations and "sound shaping." The 
author explains technical and complex con- 
cepts, including the latest digital recording 
theory, in straightforward layman's language. 
Glossary. bibliography, index. 

1986, hard, 612 pp $39.95 W06156-7 


YES! 


Please ship me 
the books indicated: 


Name 
Address 


WORLD BROADCASTING SYSTEMS: A Com- 
parative Analysis by Sydney W. Head 

This comprehensive book describes and com- 
pares broadcasting systems in developed. de- 
veloping and undeveloped countries around 
the world. Noted teacher and broadcaster Syd- 
ney Head discusses political. legal, economic 
and social issues, and provides a close look at 
programing and advertising regulations. audi- 
ence research. transborder broadcasting and 
the effects of new technology on worldwide 
communications. Head's approach is to identi- 
fy problems that are common to ай broadcast- 
ing systems and then to illustrate the varied 
solutions that have evolved in representative 
systems throughout the world. Glossary and 
index. 


1985, hard, 457 pp $39.95 W04734-3 


PROFESSIONAL VIDEO PRODUCTION by In- 
grid Wiegand 

This comprehensive one-stop manual on all 
aspects of video production includes: planning 
and budgets; program and script development; 
studios, cameras, and recording decks; studio 
Staff and crew; field equipment and tech- 
niques; editing; post-production effects and 
graphics. PROFESSIONAL VIDEO PRO- 
DUCTION enables a student or beginning pro- 
ducer to control a complete production. from 
planning through post-production. Profusely 
illustrated, with a glossary and sample produc- 
tion forms. 


1985, hard, 215 pp $39.95 K0676 


THE TECHNIQUE OF LIGHTING FOR TELEVI- 
SION AND MOTION PICTURES, 2nd Edition 
by Gerald Millerson 

Not only lighting professionals, but all produc- 
tion people will find this to be a stimulating 
and highly valuable guide to the creative use of 
light. THE TECHNIQUE OF LIGHTING will 
help you give your production the kind of visu- 
al depth that distinguishes it from the ordinary. 
Covers the nature of light and the eye, tools of 
lighting (lamps, reflectors. etc.). portraiture, 
“persuasive” lighting, effects and more. IIlus- 
trated. 


1982, paper, 400 pp $24.95 F51192-1 


Book No. 


City 


О Payment enclosed (check or money order) 
Please charge my О MasterCard 


Card # 


D Visa 


Exp. Date 


Signature 


systems (ATV) (see High-definition television, 
above). FCC wants to ascertain whether UHF 
channels in question will be needed for broad- 
casting ATV systems. 

In related proceeding, FCC has proposed 
minimum mileage separations between new 
UHF television stations on channels 14 and 69 
and existing mobile radio operations on adja- 
cent channels. If new station cannot meet 
spacing requirements, FCC also proposed, 
station may try to negotiate settlement with 
mobile radio operator. 


a 


Low-power television. Community Broad- 
casters Association, which represents bud- 
ding LPTV industry, has hired Joseph Laugh- 
lin, former general manager of wGN-Tv 
Chicago, to head CBA Programing Cooperat- 
ive. Under Laughlin's direction, co-op will try 
to buy programing that individual stations 
could not afford. So far, more than 50 stations 
have indicated interest in co-op. 

FCC's freeze on LPTV applications and ma- 
jor changes—in effect since 1983—thawed 
with opening of filing window. June 22-July 2, 
1987. Some 1,350 applications were re- 
ceived, far fewer than FCC officials had ex- 
pected. FCC has proposed granting 483 ap- 
plications, and has so far granted about third 
of that number. 


oO 


Mergers. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Со.5 SCI 
Holdings, which disengaged three investment 
banks hired last summer to explore divestiture 
of its 1.45 million-subscriber cable systems, 
has sold its assets to cable consortium of ATC, 
Comcast and Taft Cable (Tele-Communica- 
tions Inc. and Bass Group joint venture) for 
total consideration of $2.8 billion (see “Top of 
the Week"). KKR's Storer Television has also 
closed on $1.3 billion transfer of six TV sta- 
tions to company managed and 55% held by 
George Gillett Jr 00.5. Cable Television 
Group, new limited partnership headed .by ML 
Media principals Martin Pompadur and Elton 
Rule, has set $225 milion as price for 
135,000-subscriber cable systems of Essex 
Communications Corp. Amount was down $8 
million from initial offer and is subject to further 
change at closing in 1988. о Cablevision Sys- 
tems' $470 million purchase of Adams-Rus- 
sell, approved by A-R shareholders in Novem- 
ber, is expected to close shortly General 
Electric Credit Corp. will finance deal, Cab- 
levision will invest $40 million in buy and Kid- 
der, Peabody & Co. will provide $125 million in 
senior subordinated notes. O Early 1988 clos- 
ings are expected for following deals: Conti- 
nental Cablevision acquisition of American 
Cablesystems for $481.7 million; radio group 
Summit Communications $200 million pur- 
chase of DKM Broadcasting in second-largest 
radio-only sale, and Adams Communications 
purchase of Forward Communications’ five TV 
stations for $126.5 million from Wesray Capital 
Corp. а Deals called off in wake of October 
stock market decline include proposed merg- 
er of cable system operators United Artists 
and United Cable and $114 million TV station 
sale by United Broadcasting Corp. to ML Me- 


Order toll-free using е 
Visa, MasterCard or Choice dia Partners. 
800-638-7827 РА 


Must-carry. U.S. Court of Appeals has struck 


Please make checks payable to: 
Broadcasting Book Division 
1705 DeSales Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20036 


OR 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
on 


| | 
| 


НЕ STREETS OF 


SAN FRANCIS? 


i 


FRANCISCO 


The winning team. Michael Douglas and Karl Malden, backed 


by a dazzling lineup of top-name, guest stars in action-filled 
episodes shot in one of the world's most beautiful and excit- 
ing cities. Plus a five-year track record of proven network 
success. Add it all up and you'll score with the ideal one- 
hour series to fill your programming game plan. 

119 hours 


GREEN 


PROGRAMS INC. 
A DIVISION OF WORLDVISION ENTERPRISES INC. 
660 Madison Ave.. New York. NY 10021 - (212) 832-3838 
9465 Wilshire Blvd.. Beverly Hills. СА 90212 + (213) 273-7667 
625 М. Michigan Ave.. Chicago. IL 60611 - (312) 642-2650 


down latest incarnation of FCC's must-carry 
rules, holding that they are unconstitutional— 
violation of First Amendment rights of cable 
operators 

Ruling on Dec. 11, 1987, was replay of court 
decision two years ago when it eliminated 
FCC's original must-carry rules on same 
ground 

Broadcasters who have fought hard to pre- 
serve some form of must carry rules were 
upset and disappointed at ruling. They are 
now planning legal and legislative strategy for 
bringing back rules through appeals or act of 
Congress 


a 


Public Broadcasting. With death last month 
of legislation that would have provided esti- 
mated $300-million-per-year public broad- 
casting trust fund, beginning in 1990 (BRoAD- 
CASTING, Dec. 14), noncommercial community 
was left to look at 1990 appropriations to CPB 
worked out shortly before Christmas by 
House-Senate conferees. Compromise be- 
tween higher Senate figure and lower House 
figure: $232.65 million, up from $228 million 
for 1989. Same conferees settled on 1988 
figure of $19.59 million (down from current 
$20.5 million) for NTIA-administered Public 
Telecommunications Facilities Program, annu- 
al equipment grants. 

Many public broadcasters feel they suf- 
fered another serious blow last year when 
U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington threw out 
FCC's must-carry rules, which require cable 
systems to carry local broadcast signals. 
Court did not rule out possibility of constitu- 
tional must-carry rule. Although National Ca- 
ble Television Association President Jim Moo- 
ney said most cable systems are unlikely to 
drop any local broadcast signals they are now 
carrying, some members of noncommercial 
broadcasters community fear rise in number 
of stations dropped. 

National Public Radio board last month 
adopted unbundling Option |! resolution pre- 
sented in written ballot to member stations for 
advisory vote. Ballots are due at NPR Jan. 12. 
Final decision rests with board, which plans 
adoption of a policy in February Option II 
would split NPR programing into morning 
news, evening news and performance seg- 
ments, creating new distribution and member 
dues structures. Board also this month began 


Specialists in 

Broadcast 

Executive & Management 
Search 


720 N. Woodward Ave. 
Box 451 


Birmingham * Mich. 48012 
(313) 646-5666 


Tillinghast Reid & Company 


Members: NAB + АМАТ · MAB 


$32-million FY 
deliberations. 

David J. Brugger, senior vice president at 
Corporation for Public Broadcasting, Jan. 1 
became president of National Association of 
Public Television Stations, lobbying arm of 
public TV system. Eric Friesen, senior VP, pro- 
graming, remains acting president of Ameri- 
can Public Radio. 

Replacement of satellite interconnection 
system is major item on agendas at both PBS 
and NPR, with current Western Union satellite 
space due to expire in 1991. Requests for 
proposals were issued by PBS Nov. 25 and 
are due Jan. 25. 

With new CPB chairman, Howard Gutin, 
and president, Donald Ledwig, in place—as 
well as new board members William Lee Han- 
ley, Archie Purvis, Marshall Turner and Sheila 
Tate—two openings remain on СРВ board; 
still under consideration are former Tennessee 
First Lady Honey Alexander (not yet official 
nominee) and Charles Lichenstein, latter con- 
troversial for reportedly advocating cuts in 
CPB funding. CPB is also reviewing propriety 
of PBS bonus awarded President Bruce Chris- 
tensen in 1986 (BROADCASTING, Nov. 30, 1987) 
for efforts since 1984 fire that destroyed for- 
mer headquarters. 


1989 budget proposal 


a 


m Scrambling. Last November, Senate Com- 
merce Committee passed legislation that 
would regulate home satellite marketplace 
(BROADCASTING, Nov. 23, 1987). It would man- 
date that cable programers permit any quali- 
fied third party—inside and outside cable in- 
dustry—to distribute their services to 
backyard dish owners. Bill is not expected to 
hit Senate floor until March at earliest. Com- 
munications Subcommittee Chairman Daniel 
Inouye (D-Hawaii) has promised to oppose it 
and his views are laid out in committee report. 
Controversial nature of legislation is evident 
by revisions accepted by Commerce, and 
those yet to be made. 

On other front, House legislation (H.R.2848) 
that would permit satellite distribution of 
broadcast signals—superstations—to back- 
yard dish owners was focus of hearing late 
last year (BROADCASTING, Nov. 30, 1987) and 
will generate further debate as more hearings 
are convened this year. Broad coalition of 
industry groups is backing bill (although 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


broadcast industry is opposing measure), but 
modifications suggested by motion picture 
industry (mainly idea that compulsory copy- 
right license for carriers be limited to C-band 
retransmissions) did not go over well at hear- 
ing and could splinter support. 


a 


Syndex. In comments to FCC, cable opera- 
tors opposed, and broadcasters and program 
producers supported, FCC proposal to reim- 
pose rules requiring cable systems to black 
out syndicated programing on distant signals 
if it appears on local stations. FCC action is 
expected within next few months. 

Cable industry argued that FCC lacks juris- 
diction to reimpose syndex, that absence of 
rules over past seven years has not harmed 
broadcasters and producers and that rules 
would violate cable operators' First Amend- 
ment rights. 

Most broadcasters and producers contend- 
ed that rules are needed to protect sanctity of 
their exclusive programing contracts. And, 
contrary to cables claim, they say they have 
been hurt by cable's importation of duplicative 
distant signals into their markets. 


a 


Wireless cable. Using mix of ITFS and MDS 
channels, delivery system is now available in 
New York. Microband Companies Inc. has 
begun marketing six-channel wireless cable 
service in outer boroughs that have not yet 
been wired for conventional cable. It has abili- 
ty to expand to 14 channels, but is having 
difficulty securing rights to carry cable pro- 
graming it desires. 

FCC has turned down request by Cablevi- 
sion Systems, MSO with franchise for about 
one million homes within Microband-targeted 
market, to bar Microband from offering its 
service until other MMDS and ITFS channels 
now hung up in interference disputes become 
available so that Cablevision can offer com- 
petitive wireless cable service. In responding 
to Cablevision's petition, Microband charged 
that charge that Cablevision was trying to use 
FCC to block competition. It also alleged three 
cable programing services affiliated with Cab- 
levision—SportsChanne! New York, American 
Movie Classics and Bravo—have refused to 
deal with Microband in effort to weaken Micro- 
band's ability to compete. 

Microband, which also plans to introduce 
wireless cable services in Detroit and Wash- 
ington within next few months, is biggest, but 
not the only wireless cable operator. Services 
are currently being offered in several other 
markets, including San Francisco, Milwaukee 
and Cleveland. 


a 


Unions. Technical union, International Broth- 
erhood of Electrical Workers, ratified offer from 
CBS for new three-year contract by vote of 
947 to 352 in balloting that ended Monday 
Dec. 14, 1987. Contract was Dec. 20 and 
become effective immediately. Contract con- 
tains 396 ratification bonus, 396 raises for last 
two years of contract and changes in jurisdic- 
tion and daily hire provisions. Affected are 
1,500 technicians at CBS-owned stations in 
seven cities, who had been working without 
contract since Sept. 30. 


QUMEDUDY 9 GOTTA 
GET AMERIGA GOING 
IN THE MORNING. 


ГМ THE GUY WHO'S 
GONNA DOIT. 


Finally! The healthy alternative 
| to all the talk. "BODY BY JAKE" 
—anew kind of morning 
y show that makes you 
/ feel great. Its celebrities. 
| Fitness and nutrition. 
Workout demonstrations. 


/ 


P 2 
= 


1 


work up an audience and get results! 
Renowned trainer to the stars 
and fitness expert, Jake gets 
you up and gets you 
going...so what are 
you waiting for? Discover 
what the stars have known all along. 


FIRST-RUN HALF-HOUR STRIP. 
ADVERTISER SUPPORTED. 
FOR FALL 1988. 
Los Angeles New York Nashville Chicag 
(213) 284-9283 (212) 315-3030 (615 


) 373-5972 (312) 664- 4013 


t v 95 


SAMUEL GOLDWYN TELEVISION 


© 1987 The Samuel Goldwyn Company 


—— 


| ISNT GETTING THE MESSAGE. 
WHEN MY NEWS GOES OFF, 


/ 


SO pO THEI SETS. [AA JUS MAYBE WE SHO пр 
LOOK FOR А SI M. | 


| NOT READING THEM / 


Й 


ще = ! 
п = ` g 
R 5-4 = all 


(Е YOU'D LOOK TO “LOVE CONNECTIONS” ЧО SHINE 
IN. LATE NIGHT, YOU'D AND NUMBERS THAT BELONG IN LIGHTS. 
AND IT'S BEEN RIGHT HERE ALL ALONG! 


SY NDILGATLON 


LORIMAR TELEPICTURES COMPANY 


м T^ 


- , Е > — — 

“Love Connection” is an 

Eric Lieber Production in association with 
Lorimar Syndication. 


- 


в indicates new or changed item. 
 ——— mmm 


This week 


в Jan. 6—Kentucky Broadcasters Association sales 
seminar. Elizabethtown Community College, Elizabeth- 
town, Ky 


s Jan. 6—Academy of Television Arts and Sciences 
forum luncheon. Speaker: FCC Chairman Dennis Pat- 
rick. Beverly Wilshire hotel, Los, Angeles. Information: 
(818) 953-7575. 


в Jan. 6-7—"Seminars with Robert Trout, one of the 
great pioneers in radio and television journalism," 
sponsored by Museum of Broadcasting. MOB, New 
York. Information: (212) 752-4690. 


Jan. 6-9 Association of Independent Television Sta- 
tions annual Convention. Theme: “Independents "88: 
The Real Superstations." Century Plaza, Los Angeles. 


Jan. 7— Deadline for receipt of applications for Associ- 
ated Press Television Radio Association-Clete Rob- 
eris Memorial Journalism Scholarship Awards. Recipi- 
ents of two $1,000 scholarships will be students with 
broadcast journalism Career objective, studying in 
California or Nevada. Information: (213) 746-1200. 


Jan. 7—NBC advertising and promotion task force 
meeting. Century Plaza Towers, Los Angeles. 


Jan. 7-10—International winter consumer electronics 
show, sponsored by Electronic Industries Associ- 
ation. Las Vegas Convention Center, Las Vegas. Infor- 
mation: (202) 457-4919. 


Jan. 6—Deadline for entries in Alexander Натшоп/ 
Ohio State Awards program competition, sponsored 
by Ohio State University Institute for Education by 
Radio-Television. Information: (614) 292-0185. 


Jan. 8-10—Jilinois Broadcasters Association "Oper- 
ation Adapt.” Monticello, Il. Information: (217) 753- 
oRAR. 


ЕІ 


Also in January 


Jan. 11—/ndiana Cable Television Association annu- 
al seminar and legislative reception. Columbia Club, 
Indianapolis. 


Jan. 12—International Radio and Television Society 
Second Tuesday seminar, “ How Will Wall Streets Ups 
and Downs Affect 1988 Advertising Levels?" Viacom 
Conference Center, New York. Information: (212) 867- 
6650. 


Jan. 12—Southern California Cable Association 
monthly dinner meeting/public relations workshop. 
Pasadena Hillon, Pasadena, Calif. 


в Jan. 12— Caucus for Producers, Writers and Direc- 
tors general membership meeting. Chasen's, Los An- 
geles. Information: (213) 652-0222. 


Jan. 13—international Radio and Television Society 


Let Audio create 


newsmaker luncheon, "Super Bowl XXII." Waldorf-As- 
toria, New York. 


Jan. 13— "Investigative Reporting: What's the Real Sto- 
ry?" session Sponsored by American Women in Radio 
and Television, Washi chapter. National Associ- 
ation of Broadcasters, Washington. Information: (202) 
659-3494. 


Jan. 14-15—Virginia Association of Broadcasters 
winter meeting and legislative reception. Richmond 
Marriot, Richmond, Va. 


Jan. 15—Cabietelevision Advertising Bureau cable 
television political advertising workshop. Caucus 
Room, Cannon House Office Building, Washington. 


Jan. 15-—Deadline for entries in Achievement in Chil- 
dren's Television Awards, for "significant contributions 
toward improving service to children on broadcast and 
cable television (recently extended to home video)," 
sponsored by Action for Children’s Television. Infor- 
mation: (617) 876-6620. 


Jan. 15—Deadline for entries in Angel Awards for 
"most outstanding productions of moral and/or social 
impact in communications." Beverly Wilshire, Los An- 
geles. Information: (213) 731-1600. 


Jan. 15—Deadline for entries in Broadcast Media 
Awards, sponsored by International Reading Associ- 
ation, Information: (302) 731-1600. 


Jan. 15— Deadline for entries in 36th annual Associat- 
ed Press Television Radio Association of California- 
Nevada news competition. Information: (213) 746- 
1200. 


Jan. 15—Deadline for entries in fourth annual HAWRT 
Awards, recognizing "outstanding women in Bay Area 
Communications industry" sponsored by American 
Women in Radio and Television, Florida Hurricane 
chapter. Information: (813) 579-9119. 


в Jan. 15--Пеаділе for entries in Jack R. Howard 
Broadcast Awards competition, sponsored by Seripps 
Howard Foundation, presented to "large and small 
market radio and television stations for journalistic 
excellence in news reporting." Information: (513) 977- 
3035. 


Jan. 15-17 —4 iabama. Broadcasters Association win- 
ter convention. Sheraton Capstone, Tuscaloosa, Ala. 


Jan. 15-22—National Association of Broadcasters 
joint board meeting. Mauna Lani Bay hotel, Kohala 
Coast, Hawaii. 


в Jan. 18—Home Box Office press tour during Televi- 
Sion Critics Association press tour. Sheraton at Redon- 
do Beach, Redondo Beach, Calif. Information: (212) 
512-1000. 


Jan, 18-19—Washington State Cable Communica- 
tions Association annual convention and legislative 
conference. Sheraton Tacoma hotel, Tacoma, Washing- 
ton. Information: Kari Spencer, (206) 851-6290. 


Jan. 19-21—Georgia Radio-Television Institute, spon- 


Thanks, 
KSEE! 


We enjoyed building and 
installing the custom cabinetry 
for your new television studios 


in Fresno, California. 


The Audio Broadcast Group, Inc. 


furniture systems for 2342 Division Avenue S. 


your station, too! 


Grand Rapids, Michigan 49507 


1-616-452-1596 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
пе 


sored by Georgia Association of Broadcasters. Geor- 
gia Center for Continuing Education, Athens, Ga. Infor- 
mation: (404) 993-2200. 


m Jan. 20—New York Television Academy drop-in 
luncheon. Speaker: Robert MacNeil, MacNeil/Lehrer 
NewsHour. Copacabana, New York. Information: 
(212) 765-2450. 


Jan. 20—Federal Communications Bar Association 
luncheon. Speaker: Judge Kenneth Starr, U.S. Court of 
Appeals for D.C. Circuit, Marriott, Washington. 


B Jan. 20—Pennsylvania Cable Television Associ- 
ation fifth annual winter workshop. "Improving Custom- 
er Service." Marriott Inn, Harrisburg. Pa. Information: 
Bill Cologie, (717) 234-2190. 


8 Jan. 20—Women in Cable, Chicago chapter, annual 
WIC awards. Clubland, Chicago. Information: John 
Hartinger, (312) 577-1818. 


в Jan. 21—New York Television Academy drop-in 
breakfast, “Casting Procedures at Guiding Light. 
Speaker: Betty Rae, casting director, Guiding Light. 
524 West 57th Street, New York. Information: (212) 765- 
2450. 


в Jan. 21—Iilinois Broadcasters Association "Radio 
Great Ideas Exchange.” Peoria, Ill. Information: (217) 
753-2636. 


Jan. 22-23—Colorado Broadcasters Association win- 
ter meeting and awards banquet. Hyatt Regency Tech 
Genter, Denver. 


Jan. 23-25—Radio Advertising Bureau's eighth annu- 
al Managing Sales Conference. Hyatt Regency 
Atlanta. 


Jan. 24—Ninth annual ACE (Awards for Cable Excel- 
lence) Awards presentation, sponsored by National 
Academy of Cable Programing, on HBO. 


Jan. 24-25—California Broadcasters Association ra- 
dio and television management conference, Palm 
Springs Plaza hotel, Palm Springs. Calif. 


в Jan. 25—New York Television Academy drop-in 
dinner, “Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous—Al Masini 
and Robin Leach." Copacabana, New York. Informa- 
tion: (212) 765-2450. 


в Jan. 26 —Academy of Television Arts and Sciences 
forum luncheon. Speaker: Jim Mooney, president. Na- 
tional Cable Television Association, on "The Cable- 
Hollywood War: 15 There Any End to It?" Sheraton- 
Universal hotel, Los Angeles. Information: (818) 953- 
7575. 


Jan. 26-28—South Carolina Broadcasters Associ- 
ation winter convention. Columbia, S.C. 


в Jan. 27—New York Television Academy drop-in 
luncheon. Speaker: Fred Cohen, executive vice presi- 
dent, Sunbow Productions, on “Changing Patterns in 
Production and Distribution." Copacabana, New York. 
Information: (212) 765-2450. 


Jan. 27—"Chicago's Hispanic Media: Influence and 
Opportunity" sponsored by Media Institute. Chicago 
Hilton and Towers, Chicago. Information: (202) 298- 
7512. 


в Jan. 27--Шілоіз Broadcasters Association winter 
board meeting. Chicago. 


в Jan. 28- Presentation of 46th annual Alfred |. du- 
Pont-Columbia University Awards in Broadcast Jour- 
nalism, televised by WNET(TV) New York. Master of 
ceremonies: NBC anchor Tom Brokaw. Columbia Uni- 
versity's Low Memorial Library, New York. Information: 
(212) 280-5573. 


Jan. 29 — Deadline for entries in “Best of the Best" 
campaign saluting top radio promotions conducted by 
National Association of Broadcasters member sta- 
tions. Information: (202) 429-5422. 


8 Jan. 29—Deadline for nominations for Ralph Lowell 
Award for outstanding contributions to public radio, 
sponsored by Corporation for Public Broadcasting. 
Information: (202) 955-5211. 


Jan. 29-30 —Society of Motion Picture and Television 


TELEVISION BROADCASTING IN EUROPE - TOWARDS THE 1990s 


ж» BEFORE YOU SAY E В 
a МОТОЕОВОРЕ, EM 


wes Discover... € 
What's the competition doing? e, 


What will deregulation mean to you? 
What's the future for commercial television? . 
‚ What are the programming opportunities? 
> This comprehensive report, the first 
> in over 10 years to focus on 


^ terrestrial as well as satellite 
broadcasting, answers important questions 
while providing detailed information on: 


SQV 


comparative analysis and far-reaching 
conclusions which will enable you to plan 


е 28 national TV broadcasting organizations 
in 17 European countries (regulatory status, 


finance, organization, programming, 
viewing) 

е the development of cable TV networks in 
each of the 17 countries (ownership, 
programming, subscribers) 

е 19 European satellite channels 
(ownership, programming, subscribers) 

е 33 media groups (existing and expected 
TV interests) 

е 8 planned European satellite TV systems 
(launch dates, programming, market 
forecasts) 

е HDTV, MAC and new studio standards. 


From outer space to down-to-earth research 


Logica’s experience ranges from working 
with the INTELSAT organization 
implementing its interference management 
system containing design and regulatory data 
on all of the world’s communications 
satellites, through to developing advanced 
broadcasting systems and publishing market 
analysis and strategy studies. 

As an international company employing 
over 2700 people in 12 countries, including 
the USA, - researching and developing 
telecommunications, broadcasting and 
information technology, Logica was 
uniquely well-qualified to carry out this 
comprehensive study. 

This 500 page report, based on extensive 
original research, yields the kind of 


your future strategy, whether as broadcaster, 
programme distributor or potential investor. 


One step to Europe 
You can order the entire study immediately. г B 


Clip the coupon and enclose payment of 
$1350 (per copy) or request an invoice. 
Alternatively, you can send for our 16 
page brochure describing the scope and 
depth of the study, details of the research 
team's sources and an outline of the study's 
conclusions. 
: [ Please send me copies of Television $ 
: Broadcasting in Europe – Towards the 19905. 
*lencloe$ | ^ payable to Logica 


К 
. 
. 
: Consultancy Limited/please invoice me. : 
. 


Е. , 
a 


ДА 
LE. 


Ще 


. 

: О Please send me the brochure that provides 
+ more information. 

. 


: Name 
qo e — ——— 
: Сотрапу tl 
? Address 


: Zip. Phone. 


: Send to Anthony D'Abreu 

* Logica Consultancy Limited : 
264 Newman Street London W1A 45Е : 
5 United Kingdom : 


FIRST-RUN 


The Best Courtroom Drama is Real. 


- MOVIE PACKAGES 


E. 


1 Get television's silliest spy 
F- N i W series, GET SMART. 
Pick up the high act ion/ 
7 й adventure of THE HIGH 
g Es а -- 4 CHAPARRAL and America's | 
41 Western: BONANZA. 


COLOR SPECIALS | 


Te Sith ot itaq 


America's favorite film 


hero and Hollywood's JUS 
brightest stars. * C 


Three great entertain- ^ 2 -H () L LYW () () Do 
ment packages featuring | 


СЕТ SMART THE HIGH CHAPARRAL 


m i 


Miracle 
of the Bells 


Available 
December 1988 


ANDS OF IWO JIMA 


Available May 1988 


рим 


Starring Robert Wagner 


Made for 


е! MISTRESS 
Television 


Starring Victoria Principal 


e When the Time Comes Eye on the Sparrow 
evies e Starring Bonnie Bedelia, Starring Mare Winningham, 
Brad Davis Keith Carradine 
Family Sins Promised A Miracle 
Starring Jill Eikenberry, Starring Rosanna Arquette, 
James Farentino Judge Reinhold 


QUALITY SHOWS #8 


ATLANTA DALLAS LOS ANGELES NEW YORK 
INTV SUITE #653 404/438-1507 817/488-0213 213/306-4040 203/454-8989 PICTURES 


Erratas 


in November Arbitron Sweeps chart 
(Вволосавтімв, Dec. 21)  NBC-TV 
Lima, Ohio, 


household figure for 
should have been 17,000. 


Engineers 22d annual television conference. Opry- 
land hotel, Nashville. Information: (914) 761-1100 


Jan. 30—Deadline for entries in National Media 
Awards sponsored by American Diabetes Associ- 
ation, for excellence in reporting on diabetes. Informa- 
tion: (703) 549-1500. 


Jan. 30-Feb. 3— National Religious Broadcasters 
45th annual convention and exposition. Sheraton 
Washington. Information: (201) 428-5400 


к ——=а 


February 


Feb. 1—Deadline for entries in sixth annual JC 
Penney-University of Missouri Television Awards for 
Community Leadership. sponsored by School of Jour- 
nalism, University of Missouri-Columbia. Informa- 
tion: (314) 882-7771 


Feb. 1—Deadiine for entries in Silver Gavel Awards, 
sponsored by American Bar Association. honoring 
American news and entertainment media. Information 
(312) 988-5000 


Feb. 2-3— Arizona Cable Television Association an- 
nual meeting. Hyatt Regency, Phoenix, Ariz. Informa- 
tion: (602) 257-9338. 


s Feb. 3—New York Television Academy drop-in lun- 
cheon. Speaker: Nickolas Davatzes, president and 
chief executive officer. Arts & Entertainment Network. 
on "The Growth of a Cable Network." Copacabana 
New York. Information: (212) 765-2450. 


Feb. 3-7 —International Radio and Television Society 
faculty/industry seminar, “A Message for the Medium 


er? 
Because 


For air-ready 
graphics the 
experts at 
Accu-Weather 
have the best, 
most cost 
effective, 
color graphics 


619 W. College Ave. 
State College, PA 
16801 


814-234-9601 


svi 
3 
5 
- 
Q 
Q 
ч 
Е 
z 


The Leading Weather 9% 


Programing That Fits." Roosevelt hotel, New York. infor- 
mation: (212) 867-6650 


Feb. 4—International Radio and Television Society 
newsmaker luncheon. Waldorf-Astoria, New York 


m Feb. 5 Deadline for nominations for Edward В. 
Murrow award for outstanding contributions to public 
radio, sponsored by Corporation for Public Broad- 
casting. Information: (202) 955-5211 


Feb. 7-9. Arkansas Broadcasters Association winter 
meeting. Arlington hotel, Hot Springs, Ark 


Feb. 7-12—National Association of Broadcasters 23d 
annual management development seminars for broad- 
cast engineers, "Achieving Personal and Professional 
Excellence." University of Notre Dame, South Bend, 
Ind. Information: (202) 429-5346 


в Feb. 8—New York Television Academy drop-in din- 
ner, "Black Presence in TV. The New Force and the 
Economic Reality of the Black Marketplace.” Copaca- 
bana, new York. Information: (212) 765-2450. 


Feb. 10—'Success in Radio апа TV Sales," session 
sponsored by American Women in Radio and Televi- 
sion, Washington chapter. National Association of 
Broadcasters, Washington. Information: (202) 659- 
3494 


в Feb. 10—New York Television Academy drop-in 
luncheon. Speaker: Morton Downey Jr., host of Morton 
Downey Jr. Show on WWOR-TV New York. Copaca- 
bana, New York. Information: (212) 765-2450 


в Feb. 10—//linois Broadcasters Association winter 
sales seminar. Galesburg, Ill. Information: (217) 753- 
2636 


Feb. 11-13—19th annual Country Ra dio Seminar, 
sponsored by Country Radio Broadcasters Associ- 
ation. Opryland hotel, Nashville. information: (615) 
327-4488 


Feb. 12—Southern California Broadcasters Associ- 
ation 3d annual Sunny Creative Radio Awards presen- 
tation. Registry hotel, Los Angeles. Information: (213) 
466-4481 


Feb. 16-17—Wisconsin Broadcasters Association an- 
nual convention and legislative reception. Madison, 
Wis. 


Feb. 17-19— Texas Cable Show, sponsored by Texas 
Cable Television Association. Convention Center, San 
Antonio, Tex 


Feb, 18-19— Broadcast Financial Management Asso- 
ciation board of directors meeting. San Diego Marriott, 
San Diego. 


Feb. 18-20—'Minorities and Communications: A Pre- 
view of the Future," conference sponsored by Howard 
Jniversity School of Communications. Howard Inn 
and Blackburn Center, Howard University campus, 
Washington. Information: (202) 636-7491 


Feb. 24—Deadline for entries in Edward R. Murrow 
Brotherhood Awards, which "pay tribute to the finest in 
television and radio news production that best pro- 
motes human understanding and good relations 
among people,” sponsored by Cinema/Radio/TV unit 
of B’nai B'rith. Information: (212) 686-3199. 


Feb. 24—Federal Communications Bar Association 
luncheon. Speaker: Diane Killory FCC general coun- 
sel. Marriott, Washington. 


Feb. 25-28 —N ATPE International 25th annual con- 


MajoraMeetings 


Jan. 6-10—Association of Independent Televi- 
sion Stations annual convention. Century Pla- 
za, Los Angeles. Future convention: Jan. 4-8, 
1989, Century Plaza, Los Angeles 


Jan. 23-25—Radio Advertising Bureau's 
Managing Sales Conference. Hyatt Regency 
| hotel, Atlanta 

Jan. 29-30—Society of Motion Picture and 
Television Engineers 22d annual television 
conference. Opryland hotel, Nashville. Future 
meeting: Feb. 3-4, 1989. St. Francls hotel, San 
Francisco 


Jan. 30-Feb. 3—National Religious Broad- 
casters 44th annual convention. Sheraton 
Washington and Omni Shoreham hotels, Wash- 
ington. Future meetings: Jan. 28-Feb. 1, 1989, 
and Jan. 27-31, 1990, both Sheraton Washing- 
ton and Omni Shoreham, Washington 


Feb. 11-13—19th annual Country Radio Semi- 
nar, sponsored by Country Radio Broadcast- 
ers Association. Opryland hotel, Nashville. 


Feb. 17-19—Texas Cable Show, sponsored by 
Texas Cable Television Association. Conven- 
tion Center, San Antonio, Tex 


Feb. 26-28--УАТРЕ International 25th an- 
nual convention. George Brown Convention 
Center, Houston. Future convention: Houston. 
Feb. 24-26,1989 


March 21-23—Satellite Broadcasting and 
Communication Association trade show. Bal- 
lys, Las Vegas. Information: (800) 654-9276. 


April 9-12—National Association of Broad- 
casters 66th annual Convention. Las Vegas 
Convention Center, Las Vegas. Future conven- 
tions: Las Vegas, April 29-May 2, 1989; Atlanta, 
March 31-April 3, 1990; Las Vegas, April 13-16, 
1991; Las Vegas, April 11-14. 1992, and Las 
Vegas. and Las Vegas, May 1-4 (tentative), 
1933. 

April 10-12— Cabletelevision Advertising Bu- 
reau Seventh annual conference. Waldorf-As- 
toria, New York. 


April 10-13—Public television annual member- 
ship meeting of Public Broadcasting Service 
and National Association of Public Television 
Stations. Marriott Crystal Gateway, Arlington, 
Va 


April 17-20—Broadcast Financial Manage- 
ment Association 28th annual meeting. Hyatt 
Regency, New Orleans. Future meetings: April 
9-12, 1989, Loews Anatole. Dallas, and April 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
an 


18020, 1990. Hyatt Regency, San Francisco. 
April 28-May 3— National Cable Television 
Association annual convention. Los Angeles 
Convention Center. 

Мау 18-21--Атетісап Association of Adver- 
tising Agencies 70th annual convention 
Greenbrier, White Sulphur Springs, W. Va. 
May 18-22—National Public Radio annual 
public radio conference. Adams Mark hotel, 
St. Louis. Information: (202) 822-2000. 

June 8-11—American Women in Radio and 
Television 37th annual convention. Westin Wil- 
liam Penn, Pitsburgh. 

June 8-12- Вгоадсаз! Promotion and Mar- 
keting Executives/Broadcast Designers Asso- 
ciation 32d annual seminar. Bonaventure, Los 
Angeles. Future meeting: June 21-25, 1989, 
Renaissance Center, Detriot. 

June 18-21—American Advertising Feder- 
ation annual convention. Century Plaza, Los 
Angeles. 

July 31-Aug. 3—Cable Television Adminis- 
tration and Marketing Society 15th annuai 
meeting. Westin Copley Place, Boston. 

Sept. 7-9—Eastern Cable Show. sponsored by 
Southern Cable Television Association. Mer- 
chandise Mart, Atlanta 

Sept. 14-17--Насіо '88, sponsored by the Na- 
tional Association of Broadcasters. Washing- 
ton. Future meetings: Sept. 13-16. 1989, New 
Orleans; Sept. 12-15, 1990, Boston, and Sept. 
11-14 (tentative), 1991, San Francisco. 

Sept. 23-27—International Broadcasting 
Convention. Metropole conference and exhibi- 
tion center, Grand hotel and Brighton Center. 
Brighton, England. 

Oct. 14-19—Society of Motion Picture and 
Television Engineers 130th technical confer- 
ence and equipment exhibit. Jacob K. Javits 
Convention Center, New York. Future confer- 
ence: Oct. 22-27, 1989, Los Angeles Conven- 
tion Center. 

Nov. 30-Dec. 3—Radio-Television News Di- 
rectors Association annual international con- 
ference and exhibition. Convention Center, Las 
Vegas. Information: (202) 659-6510. 


June 17-23—16th International 
Symposium. Montreux, Switzerland. 


Oct. 17-19— Television Bureau of Advertising 
annual meeting. Ballys, Las Vegas. 


Television 


The Fifth Estate 


Broadcastingz 


Founder and Editor 
Sol Taishoff, (1904-1982) 
1705 DeSaies Street, N.W, Washington 20036 
Phone: 202-659-2340 


Lawrence B. Taishoff, publisher 


Editorial 


Donald V. West, managing editor 
Mark K. Miller (operations), Harry Jessell (Washington) 
Penny Pagano (national news). 
assistant managing editors. 
Leonard Zeidenberg. chief correspondent. 
Kira Greene, senior news editor 
Matt Stump, Kim McAvoy, John S. Eggerton, 
associate editors 
Susan Dillon, assistant editor 
Scott Fitzpatrick, Randall M. Sukow (technology) 
Staff writers. 

Anthony T. Sanders, systems manager. 
Peter D. Lambert, Kasey Vannett, Steve Coe, 
editorial assistants 
Todd F. Bowie, Ed Kaitz, production 


Edwin H. James, senior editorial consultant. 


Broadcasting Bl Cablecasting 
Yearbook 

David Seyler, manager 

Joseph A. Esser, associate editor 

Lucia E. Cobo, assistant manager 

Thomas D. Monroe, Bruce E. Jones, Marie G. Unger 
Book Division 

David Dietz, manager 


Advertising 
Washington 
Robert (Skip) Tash, Southern sales manager. 
Doris Kelly, sales service manager 
Meg Robertie, Classified advertising 


New York 
David Berlyn, senior sales manager 
Charles Mohr, David Frankel, sales managers 


Hollywood 
Tim Thometz, 52/25 manager 


Circulation 


Kwentin K. Keenan, circulation manager. 
Patricia Waldron, data entry manager 
Debra DeZarn, Joseph Kolthoff 


Production 


Harry Stevens, production manager 
Rick Higgs, production assistant. 


Administration 


David М. Whitcombe, vice president/operations 
Phillppe E. Boucher, controller 
Tracy Henry, assistant controller 
Albert Anderson, office manager 


Bureaus 


New York: 630 Third Avenue, 10017 
Phone: 212-599-2830 
Stephen McCleilan, associate editor 
Vincent M. Ditingo, senior editor: radio. 
Geoff Folsie, Adam Glenn, assislant editors 
Scott Barrett, staf writer 
June Butler, advertising assistant. 


Hollywood: 1680 North Vine Street, 90028 
Phone: 213-463-3148 
Jim Benson, (5! Coast editor 
Tim Thometz, Western sales manager 
Sandra Klausner, editoriai-advertising assistant. 


International Advertising Representatives 
Europe and United Kingdom: Lucassen International, 
John J. Lucassen, Kamerlingh Onneslann 67, 1171 AC 

Badhoevedorp/Amsterdam, Netherlands. Phone 
31(2968)6226. Telex: 18406 harke ni. в Japan 
Masayuki Harihari. Yukari Media inc., 17-2 Chitosedai 
1 chome, setagaya ku, Tokyo-157 Japan. Phone: (03) 
484-2847. Telex: 02423928. 


Broadcasting Publications Inc. 
A Times Mirror Business Publication 


Lawrence B. Taishoff, oresident. 
Donald V. West, vice president 
David N. Whitcombe, vice president. 


Founded 1931. Broadcasting-Telecasting* introduced 
in 1946. Television* acquired in 1961. Cablecasting* 
introduced in 1972 0“ Reg US Patent Office. о 
Copyright 1988 by Broadcasting Publications Inc 


vention. George Brown Convention Center, Houston. 


Feb. 27—"Television: A Medium Focuses on Itself 
panel sponsored by New School for Social Research 
New School, New York. Information: (212) 741-5690 


| аагар | 
March 


March 3—/ nternational Radio and Television Society 
Gold Meda! banquet. Recipient: CES's 60 Minutes. 
Waldorf-Astoria, New York. Information: (212) 867- 
6650. 


March 6—Ninth annual Academy of Television Arts 


and Sciences college awards presentation. Registry 
hotel, Los Angetes. Information: (818) 763-2975 


March 8—/nternational Radio and Television Society 
Second Tuesday seminar. Viacom Canference Center, 
New York. information: (212) 867-6650 


March 9—"Issues Before the FCC: An Evening with 
Diane Killory" general counsel, FCC, sponsored by 


American Women in Radio and Television, Washing- 
ton chapter. National Association of Broadcasters, 
Washington. Information: (202) 659-3494 


March 9-10—4ssociation of National Advertisers 
television advertising workshop. Plaza hotel, New York 
Information: (212) 697-5950 


в March 11—Academy of Television Arts and Sci- 
ences forum luncheon. Speaker: Michael Checkland. 
director-general, BBC. Beverly Wilshire hotel, Los An- 
geles. Information: (818) 953-7575 


March 13-15 —First Amendment Congress, organized 
n 1979 by Jean Otto. Society of Professional Journal- 
ists, who 15 now with Rocky Mountain News. Marriott 
City Center hotel. Denver. Information: (303) 492-6480 


March 13-15 — Wes! Virginia Broadcasters Associ- 
ation spring meeting. Marriott hotel. Chariesion. W. Va 


March 14-15— National Association of Broadcasters 
group fly-in for radio group heads. Hyatt Regency 


Continues on page 127. 


RICHARD BURTON as 


QGINGI 


Vanessa Redgrave, Sir John Gielgud, Sir 


Ralph Richardson, 


Sir Laurence Olivier, 


Franco Nero, Joan Greenwood; Joan 
Plowright — directed by Tony Palmer. Legend- 
ary names. Sumptuous production. 


ова 


PICTURES 
COAPORATION 


6850 Coral Way, Miami, FL 33155, Tel. (305) 661-8922 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


31 


LETUS MAKE YOU 
ANOFFER YOU 
CANT REFUSE. 


At Paramount, we'd like to thank 
Marlon Brando, Al Pacino and Robert 
DeNiro for their help in putting together 
our Diamond Jubilee. 

After all, without their talents, 
we'd never have been able to offer 
you: The Godfather Part I, the 
world television premiere of The Godfather 
Part II and "The Godfather Saga" 

And while we know that's enough 
to keep any audience riveted, we've also 
provided plenty of "Space" for even 
more enjoyment. Ten hours of James 
Michener’s classic, to be exact. 

Not to mention the critically 
acclaimed 4-hour mini-series “Wallenberg” 
starring Richard Chamberlain. 

All together, we're sure you'll 
agree — this is one gangbuster 


movie package. 6? 
| -— b". 
+ а 
2 N 


ала 


нии anda 


ova ww. fw 
TENDER LOVING CARE 


a a 
THE A TEAM 


SIMON & SIMON 


CHARLES IN CHARGE 
- 


OUT OF THIS WORLD 


e DUM 
QA UAE, 
THE MUNSTERS TODAY 


| N RN | j AMERICAN HEARTLINE 


t 
NTITY 


Superb off-network series. 
Exciting first run series. 
Blockbuster theatrical features and 
made-for-television movies. 
Every genre, for every daypart. 


. MCATV 


@ TOSS ICA TV. АЙ rights reserved. 
INTV Century Plaza Hotel Suite 622-624 ' 
NATPE Booth 472 


MondayaMemo 


A commentary on HDTV and spectrum sharing from John Richards, Land Mobile Communications Council, Washington 


The land-mobile view 
of high-definition TV 


Despite what some broadcasters say, private 
land-mobile radios are used for much more 
than just delivering hot pizzas. Every day, 
hundreds of thousands of licensees use mil- 
lions of private land-mobile radios to pro- 
vide every imaginable type of service to the 
American public. 

If an American business or public safety 
entity is on the move, you can bet it uses 
land-mobile radio. Electric companies. 
Railroads. Police and fire departments. 
Manufacturers. Oil companies. Mining 
companies and steel mills. All kinds of 
smal] and large businesses. Even broadcast- 
ing companies and telephone companies use 
land-mobile radio to assist in delivering 
their services and products to the American 
people. 

The trends in private land-mobile radio 
use are clear, and they are reflected in the 
licensing records of the FCC. Short of ac- 
cusing the entire American business and 
public safety community of some sort of 
collective licensing fraud, it is difficult to 
believe that one could review the licensing 
records at the commission—let alone moni- 
tor congested channels in the major urban 
areas—and not conclude that we are headed 
for serious private land-mobile radio spec- 
trum shortages in the near future. 

The harsh reality is that we will be “out” 
of private land-mobile radio spectrum in 
most of the major urban areas of this country 
within a decade. In the largest cities, the 
private land-mobile spectrum will be ex- 
hausted by the early 1990’s. Since it takes 
up to five years to develop usable equipment 
for new frequency bands, the FCC must 
move now if it seeks to insure that spectrum 
and equipment will be available for land- 
mobile use when needed most. 

More than two years ago, in the “UHF 
sharing” proceeding, the FCC proposed to 
satisfy some of the future demand for pri- 
vate land-mobile radio spectrum by allowing 
private radio users to “share” certain unused 
UHF-TV channels in the top eight urban 
areas of the country. The commission identi- 
fied vacant UHF television channels in Los 
Angeles, New York, Baltimore/Washington, 
Philadelphia, Chicago, San Francisco, Dal- 
las and Houston that could be made avail- 
able for sharing with virtually no effect on 
existing full service television Operations. 

This type of sharing program was nothing 
new, nor was the idea particularly radical. 
Private radio users have been sharing vacant 
UHF-TV channels for more than 17 years, 
without a single documented case of inter- 
ference to broadcast reception. 

To hear the broadcasters tell their story. 


John B. Richards is chariman of the Land 
Mobile Communications Council's drafting 
committee. He is a senior associate at the 
Washington law firm of Keller & Hechman. He 
joined the firm in January 1987, following 10 
years as an attorney with the FCC. He held 
policy and management position at the 
commissions Private Radio Branch as chief of 
the enforcement branch, Legal Advisory and 
Enforcement Division; legal adviser to the 
chief, Policy Development Division, and chief 
of the rules branch, Land Mobile and 
Microwave Division. In addition, Richards 
served in staff positions as a general attorney 
and a trial attorney in the Compliance 
Division. During his last two years at the FCC, 
he was legal assistant to Commissioner Mimi 
Weyforth Dawson. 
ий 
however, the future world of over-the-air 
television now hangs in the balance on the 
commission’s decision in the UHF sharing 
proceeding. Why? Because the broadcasters 
say that "their" vacant UHF-TV channels 
should be used for high-definition televi- 
sion, not for land mobile. 

Those of us supporting the commission's 
UHF sharing proposals did not hear much 
from the broadcasting community about 
HDTV until earlier this year, when the FCC 
appeared ready to move forward with a 
favorable decision in the long-standing UHF 
sharing proceeding. Then the broadcasters 
adopted the battle cry of "HDTV." They 
have since persuaded the FCC to initiate a 
broad inquiry into the future world of ad- 
vanced television technologies, and in the 
interim they have successfully delayed a 
decision at the FCC on UHF sharing. Mean- 
while. the clock continues to run on land- 
mobile frequency congestion in the major 
urban areas. 

To be clear, the land-mobile community 
supports the development of HDTV. We 
watch television as much as anyone else. 
Unlike broadcasters, however, in the land- 
mobile world we must use radio spectrum to 
satisfy our basic communications require- 
ments. We cannot "hard wire" the nation's 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
36 


vehicles. 

It is high time we see some improvement 
in the technical quality of broadcast signals. 
But let us realize that sharper television 
images could come with a very stiff price 
tag. In this age of spectrum scarcity, some ` 
broadcasters are actually seeking to use 50% 
or 10096 more bandwidth for HDTV than is 
used for current over-the-air television 
transmission systems. This is unnecessary; 
it is wasteful, and it would preclude further 
UHF sharing. 

The American public is turning to cable 
services in ever increasing numbers to satis- ` 
fy much of its appetite for video program- 
ing—and cable services do not require huge 
amounts of scarce radio spectrum. Now is 
hardly the time for the FCC to step back- * 
ward and encourage broadcasters to develop 
new methods of consuming even greater 
amounts of spectrum for incremental im- 
provements in the technical quality of over- 
the-air television signals. The radio spec- 
trum is too valuable, and too limited, to 
squander in that way. 

From a land-mobile perspective, the cur- 
rent 6 mhz television bandwidth already is 
overly generous. One broadcast signal con- 
sumes enough spectrum for 10's of thou- 
sands of daily private land-mobile dispatch : 
transmissions that are critical to the nation's 
economy and the public's safety. 

The 6 mhz bandwidth was established as 
a broadcasting standard more than 40 years * 
ago. and since then there has been absolute- 
ly no progress by the broadcasters in reduc- 
ing their fundamental spectrum require- 
ments. During that same period, the land- ^ 
mobile community cut its channel 
bandwidth in half, and in half again, and 
then in half again. We have also developed 
and adopted many other innovative Spec- « 
trum-saving technologies, including trunk- 
ing. digital data and computer-aided dis- 
patch. Yet incredibly, the broadcasters 
continue to chide us every chance they get + 
for some perceived lack of spectrum effi- 
ciency on our part. 

Certain innovative broadcasting compan- 
ies, most notably NBC. already are well 
along their way in producing a quality 
HDTV signal within the existing 6 mhz 
channels. This is exactly the type of evolv- 
ing, creative state-of-the-art broadcasting 
technology needed to move HDTV off the 
drawing boards and into the living rooms. 
Moreover, it can be done at the same time 
the FCC moves forward with its proposals in . 
the UHF sharing proceeding. 

We can't wait forever. The American pub- 
lic deserves the benefits of both HDTV and 
UHF sharing. We could have the best of | 
both worlds if the broadcasters would sim- 
ply improve their signal quality within their 
current bandwidths. й 


. 


T'S A JUNGLE. 


ә 


THE 


| TWILIGHT 


ABS про ии Inter- 
national Production in 
авзаайоп with London 
Films and Atlantis Films. 
Distributed by MGM/UA 


Telecommunications, Inc. 


Ld 


From Van Gordon Sauter, 
Michael Piller and Dr. Ron 
eee 196 А early 


From two of 
Americas great | 


13 | MGM/UA. Great appeal to 
| game show viewers. . its 
| upbeat fun, with big payoffs. 


jve- a-week, available Fall "88. 


“dick clark 2 proc ductions i in 
association with 
Productions from MGM/UA 
Telecommunications 


Lynch/Biller 


The hunt for men is over! 
A top performer among men | 


We got the beautiful blonde 
and her two "roommates" in 
the show with the No. 1 audi- 
ence profile among new first- 
run comedies. 

| From MGM/UA | 


| 18-49. Which means you just >), | Telecommunications 


| found one of the mos 
ways to reach men among all 


Шедор new orice-a-week half- 


hours. 


From. MGM/UA 
| lelecommunications. 


E 
zx 
Ed 
ж 
s 
E] 
JS 
5, 
= 
БІ 
du % 
2 
Е 
+ 


V. 1987 MGM/UNCON 


е 


; JUNGLE. 


а 
Ципи; 


ча 
ЕЛ 
ш 
= 
= 
= 


(апа 


(авва, 


зъзъъъ 


TELEVISION 
A JOINT VENTURE OF PALLADIUM ENTERTAINMENT INC. AND NEW CENTURY ENTERTAINMENT CORPORATION 
NEW YORK: (212) 355-7070 LOS ANGELES: (213) 274-8021 CHICAGO: (312) 751-3461 DALLAS: (214) 991-6664 


R 


ТЕКЕ V 


CABLE 


SATEtLtL 


Vol. 114 No. 1 


TOP OF THE WEEK Г 


Зов сее ли Еге 


АТС, Comcast, TCl/Bass win Storer cable prize 


Consortium's $2.8-billion purchase 
of KKR's 1.45 million subscribers 
is largest cable deal in history 


A consortium of cable operators has bought 
the Storer Communications cable systems 
owned by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. 
for consideration totaling more than $2.8 
billion, making it the largest cable deal ever. 
American Television & Communications, 
Comcast and Taft Cable Partners (the last a 
50-50 joint venture of Tele-Communications 
Inc. and the Bass Group) signed a letter of 
intent on Christmas Eve to buy the cable 
systems that have been on the block since 
last summer. The Storer systems have 
1,450,000 subscribers in 12 states. The pur- 
chase price works out to slightly less than 
$2,000 per subscriber, below the $2,200 
KKR reportedly wanted originally. 
Although the final numbers have not been 
worked out, the three partners will pay 
roughly $1.7 billion for the stock in SCI 
Holdings and also put up more than $1.1 
billion in assets in exchange for the so- 
called "restricted cash" that had been one of 
the problems looming over the sale of the 
systems. The partners will also assume the 
$2.25 billion in debt of SCI Holdings, 97% 
owned by KKR. Of that debt, $1.6 billion is 
in junk bonds carrying an average interest 
rate of between 13% and 15%, which are 
scheduled for payment between 1990 and 


1997. 

(Moody's Investor Service said last week 
that it was reviewing the debt of SCI, for 
possible upgrade, and the debt of the three 
buying partners.) 

The partners intend to run the company as 
a stand-alone operation for the foreseeable 


STORER 


COMMUNICATIONS 


future, since a number of tax and financial 
complications prevent them from economi- 
cally splitting up the company. That was the 
path taken by ATC, TCI, Comcast, Daniels 
and Century after their purchase of Group W 
for $1.7-billion, the record price for a cable 
deal before the Storer agreement. With the 
repeal of the general utilities doctrine of the 
tax code, tax-free liquidation of a company 
has become more difficult. 

According to the letter of intent, the part- 
ners will buy the 212 million shares of 
outstanding SCI Holdings stock for between 
$9.25 and $9.75 per common share, which 
would roughly translate to $2 billion. The 
letter also calls for SCI warrant holders to 


“receive the same consideration as Hold- 
ings’ shareholders, net of the applicable 
warrant exercise price.” Those warrants, 
when exercised, will reduce the total consid- 
eration by $234 million. 

The three partners also will put up more 
than $1.1 billion in assets to get the “re- 
stricted cash” out of the company. (The cash 
is restricted because of certain debt cov- 
enants under which SCI is operating.) Those 
assets could include cable systems, securi- 
ties or bank loans, for instance. ATC and 
Taft appeared to be leaning towards putting 
up cable systems to get the Storer cash out of 
the company, while Comcast appeared to 
favor putting up securities for the cash. 

Benjamin Diesbach, general manager of 
Taft Cable, said the Storer systems were “a 
very attractive group of properties.” Ber- 
nard Gallagher, vice president and treasurer 
at Comcast, said of Storer: “We think it’s a 
great company" ' with a "nice group of cable 
systems." 

There was also the realization the Storer 
buy represented its own unusual set of cir- 
cumstances. The nature of the long-term, 
junk bond debt, the tax complications in 
liquidation and the restricted internal cash 
were the main problems facing potential 
buyers. Those factors entered in the negotia- 
tions. Т guess the biggest problem was 
price," said David O'Hayre, senior vice 
president, investments, ATC, as both sides 


Concentrating on cable television 


Before the Storer purchase, the nations 10 largest MSO's 
owned and managed cable systems with 19.6 million basic 
Subscribers, or 4596 of the nations basic cable subscribers. 
That number increases to 4996 when Tele-Communications 
Inc.'s affiliations with other companies are included. 

TCI, the nations largest cable multiple system operator, says 
that it currently owns and manages cable systems with 3.5 
million basic subscribers. A total of 5.2 million basic cable 
subscribers are accounted for on its financial balance sheet, 
including those systems owned but not managed by TCI. 
Included in these figures are the one-million-pius subscribers 
from Heritage systems purchased by TCI in 1987 (400,000 
subscribers are in systems managed by Heritage) for more than 
$800 million. 

TCI also claims three million subscribers through its affiliated 
companies, although these are not consolidated in TCI's finan- 
cial statements. Included in this total, for example, are United 
Cables 1.145 million subscribers, of which TCI owns 2495. 

In addition to United, TCI holds varying interests in Bresnan 
Communications, Cablenet Associates, Cencom Cable, Com- 


munications Services, Lenfest Group, Marcus Communica- 
tions, Memphis CATV, Taft Cable Partners, Televents, TKR Cable 
and UA Communications. 

The second largest cable MSO, American Television & Com- 
munications Corp. (ATC), claims approximately 3.6 million basic 
subscribers, including 456,000 subscribers in Paragon Com- 
munications, a joint venture set up with Houston Industries after 
its partial acquisition of Group W cable systems in 1986. 

Continental is the third largest MSO, with 2,030,000 basic 
subscribers. That figure includes the company’s purchase of 
American Cablesystems, set to close later this year. That figure 
also incorporates the company’s percentage of jointly held 
cable operations. 

Although Storer may be divided between ATC, Comcast and 
Taft Cable (the TCI-Robert Bass Group joint venture), its estimat- 
ed 1.45 million subscribers at the end of December made it the 
fourth largest MSO. 

Cox Cable, the fifth largest MSO, reported 1,406,922 basic 


Continues on page 44 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


ee аранына ————À ТОР OF THE WEEK 


compromised from their original offers. “It’s 
a good deal," said O'Hayre. “A little less 
than $2,000 a subscriber is a high but fair 
price for this thing," he said. Added another 
source close to the negotiations, “This is not 
the world's largest bargain" but "it seems to 
be the market price." One participant li- 
kened it to the Group W deal, which at the 
time seemed to be made at the market price 
but after system values went up. it became, 
in hindsight, a bargain. "I'm hoping for 
something similar in this deal," said that 
observer, but he doubted it would look as 
good as the Group W deal does now. The 
consortium paid $1.7 billion for Group W's 
2.1 million cable subscribers. 

As for Storer, the "plan now is that three 
companies have invested in this company 
and [will] run it as a separate company 
indefinitely" said O'Hayre. Although the 
percentage breakdowns have not been de- 
vised, a source said "there's been discussion 
that it would be a third, a third. a third." It is 
expected that a separate board of directors 
and management will run the new company, 
with the owners expected to be represented 
on the board. But it is also possible that the 
three partners could manage separately a 
portion of the new company. That solution 
would be less expensive, but more compli- 
cated, said one source, than running it as a 
unified entity. The partners said it was too 
early to discuss changes in senior manage- 
ment, but O'Hayre said he hoped those at 
the system level and some of regional peo- 
ple “would stay with the company." 

Taft Cable, which has almost 200,000 


subscribers, will probably put up some or all 
of its cable systems in exchange for the 
"restricted" cash, sources at Taft and TCI 
said. O'Hayre said. "We think at least some 
of it will be done that way" at ATC but other 
assets could be included. 

Comcast seemed to be leaning toward 
putting up securities. "We're looking at the 
alternatives," said Gallagher. The three part- 
ners, if the split is equal, would have to put 
up financial assets in the neighborhood of 
$366 million, or cable systems that had 
roughly 183,000 subscribers, going by an 
average $2,000-per-subscriber price. 

One of the loose ends surrounding the 
deal concerns KKR's interest in SCI Televi- 
sion. George Gillett, owner of Gillett Broad- 
casting, bought the Storer broadcast station 
group last summer for $1.3 billion, and it is 
being operated now as a joint venture of 
Gillett-controlled entities (55%) and KKR 
(45%). A Storer spokesman said the price 
the three cable companies are paying for the 
stock of SCI Holdings contains a value for 
KKR’s 45% portion of SCI Television. 
When the transaction is completed, the ca- 
ble partners will own the Storer cable sys- 
tems free and clear, while SCI Television 
will operate as its own entity. Now it is a 
subsidiary of SCI Holdings. A KKR spokes- 
man said the company intends to remain part 
of its joint venture with Gillett. That is 
believed to mean that KKR would compen- 
sate the cable buyers for the value of its 45% 
stake in SCI Television, presently apart of 
SCI Holdings. When Gillett and Storer set 
up the joint venture, Storer put up $225 


million in debt and equity as part of the 
overall $1.3-billion purchase. That may be a 
guidepost for the final disposition of KKR's 
interest in SCI Television. 

The proposed sale brings to an end the 
saga of Storer's cable properties. Storer 
Communications went on the market in 
1985 (Comcast, at the time, aggressively 
pursued the company), and was bought by 
KKR in a $2.5-billion leveraged buyout. 
KKR sold the broadcast properties to Gillett 
and hired three investment firms—Morgan 
Stanley, Drexel Burnham Lambert, and 
Shearson Lehman—last summer to sell the 
cable systems. Those firms were "disen- 
gaged” in early December, after which talks 
with the cable consortium, which had earlier 
expressed an interest in the deal, picked up 
again. That culminated in the agreement 
reached on Dec. 24. 

A formal contract is expected in the next 
few weeks with the transaction scheduled to 
close in the second quarter of 1988. In 
addition to the federal regulatory approvals, 
the partners will need the approval of the 
local jurisdictions in which Storer operates 
cable systems, which one partner estimates 
in the hundreds. 

The cable partners involved in the sale 
know they may be operating under the 
Storer name long after there is, in effect, no 
Storer. “The fundamental thing that every- 
body who wanted to be a part of this was 
that you better be prepared to make an 
investment, forever, in SCI. If you have any 
other idea or intent, you can’t be apart of this 
transaction,” a source said. a 


г оно Mm | 


Continued from page 43. 


subscribers as of September. A separate 50% joint venture in 
New Yorks Staten Island adds another 25,000 basic 
subscribers. 

Sixth is Warner, which said it had 1,389,705 basic subscribers 
as of the end of November. Comcast, which follows Warner and 
Cox with approximately 1.31 million basic subscribers as of late 
November, could jump ahead of both of them depending on the 
number of subscribers that are added from its part in the Storer 
acquisition. The current Comcast tally includes the systems that 
it owns and operates, as well as those managed in limited 
partnerships. 

United, which ranked eighth in size, reported 1,145,233 basic 
subscribers at the end of November, including 183,369 sub- 
scribers in limited partnerships managed by United. 

Privately held Newhouse said it had 1,077,383 basic sub- 
scribers as of Dec. 18, through its New Channels, Vision Cable 
and Metrovision cable systems, placing it ninth on the list. 
Viacom counted 1,020,300 basic customers as of Sept. 30, 
putting it in 10th. 

The figures in the chart at right, supplied to BROADCASTING by 
the individual companies, differ from those used by the Motion 
Picture Association of America, which has been a vocal critic of 
the increased concentration of ownership in the cable industry. 
MPAA, for instance, said that before the Storer purchase, the 
top 10 companies accounted for 55.8% of all cable subscrib- 
ers. MPAA claims that TCI has 9,387,000 subscribers before the 
Storer purchase, while the company says it has, at most, 8.2 
million. 

Last week, MPAA President Jack Valenti charged that "the 
sale of Storer puts the cable industry in a tighter vise of 
concentration." Valenti claimed that "the five largest cable com- 


panies will now control, directly or indirectly almost 4796 of all 
subscribers...A few mega-monopolies are taking over the deliv- 
ery of television to the home, and nobody seems to give a 
damn." 


The top 10, before Storer 


(Subscriber figures in millions") 


Company Owned systems Affiliated systems 
1. Tele-Communications Inc 5.20 8.20 

2. AIC 3.60 3.60 

3. Continental Cablevision 2.03 2.03 

4. Storer Communications 1.45 1.45 

5. Cox Cable 1.41 1.41 

Top five total 13.69 16.69 

6. Warner Cable Communications 1.39 1.39 | 
7. Comcast Cable 1.31 1.31 

8. United Cable Television е 027 

9. Newhouse Broadcasting 1.08 1.08 

10. Viacom Cable 1.02 1.02 
Second five total 5.95 4.80 

Top 10 total 19.64 21.49 


Note: By using a base of 44 million cable subscribers, the top five М505 
represent 31% and 38% of owned and owned/affiliated systems, respectively. 


The corresponding percentages for the top 10 are 45% and 49%. 
"Based on figures supplied to BROADCASTING by individual companies. 


**Figure is zero because United figures in affiliated column are already included 
in ТСІ5 8.2 million. 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


ТОР OF THE WEEK | 


Showdown in Cerritos: Telco, 


cable at odds over system control 


Planned fiber optic system has 
sparked regulatory confrontation 
over ownership of transmission line 


The five city council members who run the 
small, affluent community of Cerritos, Ca- 
lif., pride themselves on being visionary 
thinkers. They use terms such as "trend 
setter,” "innovative" and "dynamic" to de- 
scribe projects including the community's 
redevelopment program and the solar panels 
affixed to the roof of City Hall. So when the 
council set out to build an expensive under- 
ground cable system for its town 20 miles 
southeast of Los Angeles, it looked for 
something beyond the ordinary. 

Cerritos may have gotten more than it 
bargained for when, in February 1987, the 
council signed an unusual $7.5-million joint 
venture agreement involving GTE Califor- 
nia, СТЕ Service Corp., Apollo CableVi- 
sion and its parent firm, T.L. Robak Con- 
struction Co. (GTE California, a subsidiary 
of GTE Corp. provides telephone service 
while GTE Service Corp., another subsid- 
iary, is the corporation's research arm.) 

The city was about to become involved in 
a lengthy and costly regulatory battle be- 
tween the telephone and cable industries 
over which will control the transmission 
wires going into individual homes. After 
receiving thousands of pages of comments 
from both sides, the FCC is expected to 
decide this month whether to permit the 
project to proceed. 

"The issue in the Cerritos matter is who is 
going to own that second wire into the 
home,” said Michael Morris, vice president 
of congressional and regulatory affairs for 
the California Cable Television Association. 
"That’s all that is at stake." Morris and other 
cable industry officials fear that FCC ap- 
proval would be disastrous because it could 
lead to a return to the franchise wars that 
were so evident before the passage of the 
Cable Act in 1984. On the other side of the 
argument, GTE and the city claim the cable 
industry is standing in the way of progress. 

The proposed leaseback provides for 
GTE California to pay for the construction 
of an interactive, broadband transmission 
system for the city's 56,000 residents, 
16,000 homes and 2,000 businesses. Apollo 
would lease half of the 550 mhz system to 
provide cable service and GTE Service 
Corp. would lease the other half for 
experimentation. 

In addition to cable service, the system 
would offer additional features including 
home banking and shopping, security and a 
"video-on-demand" system that could be 
leased to yet another party. It also would 
give GTE Service Corp. an opportunity to 
conduct what it calls the first and largest 
side-by-side tests of fiber optics, coaxial and 
twisted pair telephone cable in transporting 
voice, data and video services. 

Cerritos officials are disappointed that 
there is little to show after nearly a year. 


Mayor Dan Wong said that the city was 
reluctant to enter the cable business in the 
first place because of the problems that other 
cities experienced with franchises before 
Congress passed the Cable Act. However, as 
pressure from the community mounted, the 
council solicited bids in September 1985, 
but it had to twice extend the request for 
proposals because there were no applicants. 

In March, 1986, during the third exten- 
sion, Cerritos received a bid from Apollo, 
whose parent company, T.L. Robak, special- 
izes in underground construction. The city 
also received bids from another cable opera- 
tor, Kinneola Engineering, and а construc- 
tion company, Mecum Enterprises, but both 
of them sought public financing to build the 
system. 

About that time, John Saunders, director 
of internal affairs for Cerritos, said that the 
city received a letter from GTE California 
indicating its willingness to coordinate the 
project with a cable operator. The council 
directed city staff to work with both parties, 
and the franchise agreement was unani- 
mously adopted in February. 

"We're not interested in the economic and 
political aspects [of this case]," Wong said. 
"We're looking at it strictly for technolo- 
gy....Any industry able to provide some 
technology service for the country, for the 
city, should have the right to do that." Wong 
argues that since other cable operators did 
not make reasonable bids, GTE California 
should be allowed to have the system. 

Morris maintained that other cable opera- 
tors passed on the Cerritos project, with its 
“blue sky RFP,” because the project was not 
economically feasible. He argued that the 
phone company could shift its costs off the 
books and use unregulated money to finance 
the project. 

If the FCC grants the application, or some 
type of waiver, Morris said, the decision 
will, force other cable operators to make 
promises they cannot keep in order to re- 
main competitive with the local telco. "It is 
the most dangerous part of the waiver," 
Morris said. 

The agreement between GTE and Apollo 
"goes beyond the customer-carrier relation- 
ship," Morris said. With GTE California 
paying T.L. Robak Inc. $7.5 million to 
design, construct and maintain the system, 
Morris said money will be flowing in both 
directions. Other unusual features, he said, 
include GTE's agreement to pay Robak the 
profit in advance and the schedule of lease 
payments that Apollo will pay back to GTE 
California, which Morris contends is "basi- 
cally a loan." 

Darrell Hughes, director of business op- 
erations for GTE California, said that since 
no regulated money is involved in the co- 
axial cable service project—the only matter 
before the ЕСС--и cannot be considered a 
cross-subsidy issue. 

At issue before the FCC is a Section 214 
application that GTE California submitted 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
ак 


to the FCC last February to construct a 170- 
mile, bi-directional coaxial cable distribu- 
tion system. Half of the system would be 
used by Apollo for 40 channels while the 
other half would be leased to GTE Service 
Corp. for experimental activities in $,000 
Cerritos homes. 

When opposition to the Cerritos proposal 
emerged—and questions about why GTE 
Service Corp. needed so much bandwidth— 
the FCC requested more information. GTE 
California told the commission that three- 
quarters of GTE Service Corp.’s bandwidth 
would be devoted to its video-on-demand 
service, a system that allows subscribers to 
choose from hundreds of movie titles that 
can be seen any time by punching the infor- 
mation into a remote unit. GTE intends to 
lease the bandwidth needed for this service 
to Apollo or to a third party. Existing cross- 
ownership rules prevent the telco from pro- 
viding video service. 


IGTE’s Hughes 


GTE Service Corp. had been searching 
for a test site in Florida and Oregon for more 
than a year before it expressed interest in the 
GTE California proposal for Cerritos, ac- 
cording to Hughes. The GTE Service Corp. 
plans to examine the technology on a cost- 
per-delivery basis and determine how the 
consumer responds through video consumer 
surveys. “This may be the way to find out if 
a single transmission medium will work for 
all kinds of services," Hughes said. "No one 
has put an array of products and services on 
multiple facilities to those numbers of 
homes with the customer as a test 
instrument." 

Despite its opposition, Hughes insists the 
cable industry could benefit from the tests. 
The telcos may be able to find a way to 
distribute video signals over fiber, or inter- 
connect video signals between fiber and 
coaxial cable, which could provide savings 
for cable, he said. 

If all restrictions that currently prohibit 
telephone and cable companies from enter- 
ing each other's territory were lifted, GTE 
would consider entering all areas of the 
cable business, he said. Although he is not 
keen on programing, Hughes said franchises 
"would be a natural extension" of transport. 

"The thing that all of us should work for is 


| maS 


—— Ж ТОР OF THE WEEK L—— 


the level playing field analogy," Hughes 
said. "I don't think any industry should be 
given an undue advantage.... If the playing 
field is level ! think the consumers and the 
cable industry and the phone industry have 
plenty of room in which to operate and 
would all do a pretty good job," Hughes 
said. "Competition is not all bad." 

But Morris said that if the government 
does eventually lift restrictions, it still 
would not be a level playing field. "The 
regulations were put there because of a pat- 
tern of anticompetitive practices by phone 
companies to control the second wire.... It 
just leaves the door open for phone compan- 
ies to pick up where they left off." 

Technologically, local phone companies 
would still retain their monopoly over local 
distribution even if cable were permitted to 
experiment with dial tone, according to 
Morris. “Everyone would need a $5,000 
phone for coax to work," he said. “It is just 
not a viable business and never will be." 
Although cable could profitably deliver 
point-to-point and point-to-multipoint trans- 
missions for private line businesses. Morris 
said telcos would gladly give up that line to 
cable since it is a money-losing venture for 
them. 

Hughes noted, however. that since 1972 
cable has stuck primarily to entertainment 
product, and he questioned whether it has 
actively pursued available technology and 
Services. “I think they need to get into some 
partnerships with telephone companies and 
other industries to begin to deliver products 
and services beyond just HBO,” he said. 

Despite the "mystique" surrounding fiber 
technology, Morris said "it still has signifi- 
cant drawbacks from a distribution stand- 
point." In Alameda, Calif., he said, United 
Cable built a fiber optic system with coax 
trunks and fiber drops from poles into 
homes intended to combat theft of service. 
"It was a disaster,” he said. "They just 
finished ripping out the system and replac- 
ing it with coax cable. What if a phone 
company had done it? If it had replaced 
copper wire with fiber, it would be a disaster 
for the telephone rate payer." 

Tom Robak, president of T.L. Robak, the 
parent company of Apollo CableVision, 
thinks the new technology used in Cerritos 
could have a place in cable. He said the 
cable industry's real motive in opposing 
fiber is its large investment in coax. "They 
haven t got the return on their money yet," 
he said. "They're not ready to rewire the 
country. They want to wait another five or 
ten years to recoup their money." Although 
fiber is "not a proven factor yet,” Robak said 
cable has a responsibility to “look down the 
road and see what the alternatives are." 

Since he considers the cable business to 
be technology. driven rather than market- 
driven, Robak said the knowledge gained 
from the Cerritos projects can assist other 
major cable operators that his construction 
company works with on the West Coast. 
And that would help increase penetration. 

“I don't see it as a threat at all," Robak 
said. "I'm operating under the assumption 
that the phone company wants to be in the 
pipeline and dial tone business, and they 


want to lease bandwidth off to cable opera- 
tors to provide programing. Now if the gov- 
ernment keeps that balance I think you have 
a good system....as long as they keep the 
phone company out of the programing side 
and they keep the cable operators out of the 
dial tone business." 

Robak said he fears programers such as 
HBO are headed for direct home Ku-band 
sales and cable operators “песа to have lots 


— — ) 


of other services to provide. And right now 
coax doesn't give us great enough band- 
width to provide all the other services," such 
as high definition television. "The fact that 
(programers) backed into Ku-band when C- 
band is working well scares me so | want to 
look for alternative income." he said. 
Meanwhile. for the city fathers of Cerri- 
tos. the wait for an underground cable sys- 
tem continues. Oo 


An FCC new year 


Commission wil! be busy in 
1988, with RKO dispensation, 
children’s advertising and 
spectrum reallocation among 
proceedings on docket 


The FCC will have much to do during the 
new year, implementing a new broadcast 
indecency policy, disposing of the 22-year- 
old RKO license renewal case and wrapping 
up current proceedings ranging from syndi- 
cated programing exclusivity for broadcast- 
ers to UHF-to-mobile radio spectrum reallo- 
cation to children’s advertising. 

The work load will become heavier 
should the FCC launch any major new ini- 
tiatives to further impress the deregulatory 
stamp of the Reagan Administration on the 
broadcasting and cable industries. 

In handling the load, FCC Chairman Den- 
nis Patrick and the two other Sitting commis- 
sioners—Patricia Dennis and James 
Quello—are counting on help from Wash- 
ington communications attorney Susan 


Wing and FCC staff attomey Bradley 
Holmes who have been nominated to fill the 
current commission vacancies. Although 
some on Capitol Hill had made noises about 
holding up the confirmations to punish the 
FCC for its fairness doctrine repeal. the 
White House now expects the Senate Com- 
merce Committee to act promptly on the 
nominations when it gets down to business 
in February. 

Because it affects broadcasters and cable 
operations, the FCC proposal to resurrect 
the syndicated exclusivity rules, which 
would require cable systems to delete pro- 
grams on distant signals for which a local 
broadcaster has exclusive local rights, is one 
of most important and controversial pro- 
ceedings now pending. 

Staffers working on the proposal say it 
will be ready for FCC action by “early 
spring," and, if Patrick has his way, some 
form of so-called syndex will be adopted. If 
they are. the cable industry is expected to 

Continues on page 127 


End of the road 


Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Ernest Hollings (D-S.C.) inserted language 
two weeks ago in a catch-all spending bill requiring Rupert Murdoch to sell the 
Boston Herald and New York Post (BROADCASTING, Dec. 28, 1987) at the request of 
“another senator,” according to a Hollings aide. However, the aide refused to identify 
the senator. Speculation centered on Ted Kennedy (D-Mass.), who sources believe 
was motivated by dissatisfaction with the Herald's editorial policy. Kennedy aide, 
Carolyn Osolinik, said she was "not aware” of any such effort on the senator's part 
and felt there was "no foundation to the rumor." The suggestion that the senator had 
gone after Murdoch because he didn't like the paper's editorials was "completely 
absurd,” commented another Kennedy spokesman. With most of Capitoi Hill out last 
week it was difficult to track down the origins of the provision. 

Most observers considered the language “airtight,” affording Murdoch little 
choice but to sell the paper in the spring. His only option might be to seek legislation, 
but it is believed the chances of success on the Hill are remote, especially during an 
election year. 

Under the measure, which extends through fiscal 1988, the FCC cannot grant or 
extend waivers to its newspaper-broadcast crossownership rules. Murdoch was 
believed to be seeking a waiver extension for both papers. Because of the rules, 
when Murdoch purchased wrxr(Tv) Boston and wNvw(Tv) New York he obtained 
waivers to retain his ownership of the Post and Herald (his Post waiver expires on 
March 6 and the Herald's on June 31). The language also forbids the commission 
from abolishing or modifying those rules. 

A petition was filed at the FCC by the Freedom of Expression Foundation to launch 
a rulemaking to eliminate the crossownership restriction. Broadcast groups and the 
American Newspaper Publishers Association were preparing to file comments and 
a spokesperson for Murdoch's News Corp. said the company, the ANPA and other 
media groups were going to submit comments on the proceeding last Thursday 
regardless of the Hill's action. 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
46 


Ати! arce 


Independent in more ways than one 


Once was, the independents took a back seat in broadcast industry affairs. 

No longer. Now—whether it's in Hollywood, or New York, or Washington— 

that segment of the industry represented by the Association of Independent 

Television Stations is in the middle of the action. And appropriately, INTV 

has picked an activist president for the job. In this preconvention interview, 

Preston Padden shares his perspective on the events shaping—and being 
shaped by—the universe of stations that go it alone. 


We note that you've adopted a new logo. What is its significance? 


We think it's a good time to adopt a new symbol for the business of 
independent television—somcthing that can be recognized on sight, 
rather than onc that has to be read. Because we think that the 
independents really have come of age in the marketplace, and one of 
the functions of this association is to make surc that the rest of the 
industry and the world are properly apprised of what we've 
achieved, and we think having a symbol that represents independent 
television will help us in that effort. 


Has independent television come of age or has it already peaked? 


I don't think it’s peaked at all. We look at what the four VHF 
independents in Los Angeles are doing and we take that as a goal for 
the aggregate independent position in other markets across the 


country. Those Los Angeles independents regularly achieve fully 
one half of the television viewing in that marketplace on a week in, 
week out basis. 


Are there similar stories being told in other markets? 


That's the strongest local market independent story. New York is not 
far behind. It falls off as you go down into the smaller markets where 
the independents are less mature. The L.A. independents are the 
oldest in the country, and being VHF doesn't hurt them. 


But has the marketplace changed for the independent television 
industry in the last 12 months—markedly? There seem to be a 
number of bankruptcies out there and a lot more concern about 
whether there will be any more independents on the horizon. 


I don't think there's any question that the growth of new indepen- 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
A? 


[o ні 


dents has plateaued. But I don’t think anybody sees that as a bad or 
an unexpected thing. | mean, we could not go on forever growing 
new stations at the rate we were for four or five years. 

We still point to the number of new stations that came on board 
during the most explosive growth period in the history of the 
medium, and we set that up in contradistinction to the 23 that have 
gone into bankruptcy. We try to get people to focus on the hundreds 
of new stations that are not in bankruptcy and that are doing fine and 
are providing new local service that didn’t exist before. 


So how many are there right now? 


I think the new census will show a total of 327. Not all of those are 
general purpose independent stations; some of them are foreign 
language or specialty stations of one kind or another. We believe the 
number of generally programed independent stations is somewhere 
around 240. 

But we certainly have not peaked in terms of audience growth. 
We are seeing in the new peoplemeter numbers some very dramatic 
stories about the audience shares being garnered by independent 
stations. And we also see dramatic stories in local markets where the 
independents get a fair shake in the audience measurement. In the 
vast majority of local markets that are measured by diaries we 
continue to see a gross understatement of the independent audience. 

Within the past few weeks we’ve had meetings with both Nielsen 
and Arbitron to show them advance copies of the metered diary 
calibrations study that we will be releasing at the convention, and 
we’re looking for a good-faith effort on the part of both services to 
do something positive and meaningful—and soon—about this 
chronic problem. 


So much of the dialogue regarding ITV particularly concerns cable 
that you tend to forget or obscure the fact that your primary competi- 
tion is still the network affiliate, is it not? 


Absolutely. 


And would you not say that it is the independents that have made the 
greatest inroads against the network affiliates in the fast five years. 


I don’t want to take anything away from the growth that the cable 
program services have achieved. We think that’s terrific. But unfor- 
tunately, because it’s an easy story to write, we see in the trade press 
and the general press stories that the networks’ share is declining and 
the reason is cable. One of our most important jobs is to effectively 
communicate the fact that an awful lot of the audience that is leaving 
the networks is going to watch independent television stations. 

If you take the November 1987 prime time figures, and look back 
five years, the networks have suffered an erosion of nine prime time 
share points, and five of those nine have ended up on independent 
stations. The other four went to all other sources. 


How serious Is the new turn of events on must carry? 


It’s obviously not good news, but we’re hopeful that the situation 
will be resolved in a manner that’s satisfactory to our interests. 
There certainly is a substantial reservoir of sentiment on Capitol 
Hill, strongly in favor of local carnage regulations. 


You don’t think the situation is already resolved? That the court 
decision is now the status quo and will remain the status quo? 


Do I think the landscape we have today is the landscape we'll have 
forever? No, I don't. 


What do you think will happen? 


1 think that the constellation of cable issues is going to be resolved; ! 
can't tell you just when. I think, right now, everyone is holding their 
cards very closely, trying to assess exactly what their strengths and 
weaknesses are on Capitol Hill and at the FCC. 

But 1 don't think that what we've got now will remain the status 
quo for one very good reason. Nature abhors an unbalanced and 
unstable situation, and with a compulsory license remaining intact 
and no local carriage obligation at all, what you have is a very 
unstable, one-way relationship between cable operators and broad- 
casters. And 1 don't think that will continue indefinitely. Unless it is 
resolved it will lead inevitably to continuing conflict and turmoil. 


What would happen if nothing happened? What would happen if all 
carriage now in place stays in place? Or essentially so? Would you 


still feel a need to go back in and get legislation on this matter? 


I think that goodwill and cooperation are certainly the order of the 
day, but I don't think that those two concepts really can be the 
foundation of a long term business relationship. One side has a law 
that says no broadcaster may ever charge a cable operator for the use 
of its program service, no matter how valuable that program service 
may be to the cable operator. But you don't have any similar 
provision for broadcasters having some sense of security in their 
relationship with cable operators. 


It sounds as if you're convinced that the only way to resolve must 
carry is to take up the whole issue of the compulsory license. 


Well, we had a proposal two years ago suggesting a rule saying 
simply that Congress did not adopt a compulsory license for the 
cable industry that would apply to any and all signals cable operators 
might wish to transmit, but rather that Congress adopted a compul- 
sory license limited to the signals specified as permissible for 
carriage by the FCC. Our proposal was that the FCC should simply 
provide that the signals permissible for carriage are those signals 
carried as a part of a package that includes whatever universe of 
local carriage obligations it is agreed upon by the agency and the 
industry. 

You could take the must carry compromise and say, in effect, that 
cable systems that comply with this deal may avail themselves of the 
compulsory license to do so, and that while cable operators that 
don't wish to carry all these local stations are not under any 
obligation to do so, they may not use the privilege of the compulsory 
license for picking and choosing among those they wish to carry. 

Ultimately, we abandoned that proposal and folded it into the 
mainstream industry compromise. There's been a fair amount of 
discussion since the Century decision came down about dusting off 
that compulsory license linked proposal, and taking another look at 
it. 
in light of the great upset on Capitol Hill over the fairness doctrine, 
what does that bode for the chances of must carry? 


I don't think broadcasters can afford to be one-issue politicians, and 
I think that everyone in this industry has got to understand that there 
are relationships between these issues, and broadcasters are just 
going to have to decide which issues are most important to them. 
And while we have not had an up or down vote on the matter, I think 
the likely sentiment of our group was evident in its willingness to 
have us stay out of the battle over the fairness doctrine on Capitol 
Hill. 


Do you anticipate continuing to abstain on that subject? 
Yes. 
For any reason beyond narrow self interest? 


For the reason that we understand that these issues are linked 
together. And I wouldn't characterize it as narrow self interest, I'd 
characterize it as a principled position. 

You know, it would have been very easy for INTV early on—and 
maybe even in the narrow best business interests of our biggest 
members—to say we're not going to worry about how cable 
operators treat the newer entrants in this business. That we were just 
going to take care of the big guys, and that would be it. But I don't 
think that would have been a principal position. We've tried to stake 
Out a position that said there are a lot of newer independent stations 
bringing free local service to communities that have not had it 
before, and we feel an obligation to see that in the consolidation of 
the cable industry, these stations are not lost in the rush. 


That takes us a bit away from the discussion about the fairness 
doctrine. 


But it is our concern in large part over issues like must carry, and 
over more far-reaching issues like what is our role going to be in a 
fiber optic wired nation that has given us pause in rushing to the 
forefront of the fight to eliminate the fairness doctrine. 


We take it that INTV as an association would be very happy for the 
rest of the people battling against fairness —the National Associ- 
ation of Broadcasters and the Radio-Television News Directors Asso- 
ciation—and the other broadcast associations—to achieve dissolu- 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


AR 


т _ _ _ _`_—__..єү——є—_-ҥ@]@] н ҥншышы—=—_‚}Ъ 


tion of the fairness doctrine. We take it that you're for that, but that 
you don't want to be identified with that effort because it might cost 
you some political capital on some other issue. That sounds like 
narrow Self Interest. 


It's my perception from our group that elimination of the fairness 
doctrine, when ordered along with the other issues on our plate, is 
not a priority. Whether achieved by us or by anyone else. 

It's pretty straightforward. Over the long haul, we see the local 
broadcasters’ role as special, as different from some of the other new 
media. We have a legal obligation to serve the needs and interests of 
our local communities, and we think that there is a historical quid 
pro quo involved in that special obligation and our relationship with 
other new media. 


And do you think the fairness doctrine is part of that quid pro quo? 
Historically, it certainly has been. 


Would you be willing to accept that and the public interest concept as 
a condition for special protection In the marketplace? 


That's an issue that all broadcasters may in fact have to address in 
the not too distant future, 


т sure you're familiar with what former FCC Commissioner Mimi 
Dawson has said about the telecommunications future [BROADCAST- 
ING, Nov. 30, 1987]. What does the future hold for independents as far 
as fiber optics are concerned? 


Well, it's for all broadcasters. We think the commission has a great 
opportunity right now—-when fiber deployment is in an experimen- 
tal stage—to get involved and make some very fundamental deci- 
sions about the regulatory environment that is going to be the 
structure within which this new medium of communication gets 
built. 

The lines are beginning to blur between mass media and common 
carrier. I think you start to see that cable is probably the first step in 
that blurring of the lines; fiber optics deployed by telephone com- 
panies takes it one step further. 

The cable industry has in the recent past been annointed with 
substantial First Amendment status, and now, in the cable-telco 
proceeding, the telephone companies are asking why their wire must 
be subjected to a different First Amendment regime than the cable 
wire, and it's a question the commission is going to have to wrestle 
with. There's an old case that we may ultimately see revisited. When 
the telephone companies were shut out of the cable business, GTE 
took the FCC to court and challenged that exclusion on First 
Amendment grounds. Their arguments were not given much cre- 
dence at that time, but there's been a lot of new developments since 
then. 

So [ think we're seeing a blurring of mass communications and 
common carrier development and I think it's absolutely critical that 
the commission step in and conduct the studies that are necessary to 
figure out the best way to maximize service to consumers. Commis- 
sioner Dawson suggested that we ought to go out and hire a lot of 
economists to conduct those studies, and while we're certainly 
interested in participating in those studies, we'd like to see the 
commission take the lead. I think the study by the National Telecom- 
munications and Information Administration is going to get into a 
lot of these issues. 


Do you have your own scenario on how it’s going to shake out in the 
next |0 to 15 years? 


I think we're going to see more and more wired communications, 
transmission of video into the home. The big question mark is 
whether we're going to see a competitive environment for that wire 
line transmission of video or whether we're going to see an environ- 
ment that doesn't have subscriber-level competition. И seems to me 
that an awful lot of the regulatory decisions ultimately wil! have to 
turn on whether we can rely on competition or whether there's no 
competition there to rely on. 


Do you share any of Commissioner Dawson's belief that the time 
could come when they would turn back in the broadcast frequencies 
and rely on one wire going into the home? 


Га be surprised to see the tumback of the spectrum in my 
lifetime, but | do think ‘we are likely to see fiber optic deployment 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


an 


within our careers in this business. You've got telephone companies 
installing it today and you've got cable operators installing it today. 
One of the questions we raised in our petition at the FCC is, if 
you've got ATC installing a fiber and you've got Bell South 
installing a fiber, what is the basis for differing in the regulatory 
treatment of the transmission of video over those otherwise identical 
pieces of glass fiber? 


What are the other technological issues that are going to impact the 
independents and the rest of the broadcast world? 


There's a bill in Congress right now sponsored by Representative 
Robert Kastenmeier (D-Wis.) and Michael Synar (D-Okla.) to adopt 
a new compulsory license for the satellite dish industry. And over 
there against my office wall we have a little flat panel antenna that 
certainly is the way that technology is going. We know about the 
troubles we have with the cable compulsory license; we think it's 
Boing to be increasingly difficult for broadcasters to compete with 
all of these new media if the broadcasters are the only ones that 
actually have to operate within the copyright marketplace, buying 
rights to the programing they're seeking to exhibit. If everybody 
else gets a compulsory license and all of this programing is flying 
around the country, outside of copyright channels, so that neither the 
buyer nor the seller can really effectuate an exclusive license to a 


local broadcaster then we think our ability to compete is going to be 
severely hampered. 

Over the long haul, there are two issues that | think are critical to 
broadcasters' survival in the new competitive environment. The first 
is access to consumers, and that's what must carry is all about and 
that's what our fiber optic filing is all about. And the second thing is 
exclusivity, because we are going to have more competition. Broad- 
casters may not like that, but they can't change that fact. There's 
going to be more competition for the viewers’ eyeballs -- and the 
only weapon we have to compete with in the marketplace is the 
programing that we choose, that we select and buy to attract the 
viewers. 

I think Trygve Myhrin, the former chairman of National Cable 
Television Association, said it as well in a recent interview: "Exclu- 
sivity is something you want on all the product you've spent your 
lifeblood on." 


What about HDTV? 


I think HDTV is certainly coming. Again, I think it's tied in with the 
fiber optic equation. You know, we're all running around trying to 
figure out how to jam as much high definition signal as we can into 
six megahertz or nine megahertz, and | understand, although 1 
haven't seen it yet, the folks at Bellcore [the communications 
research arm of Bell Labs] have an HDTV demonstration using fiber 
optics that utilizes 30 megahertz of bandwidth per primary color. 

Now we may be able to do a lot with compression, but I doubt that 
we're going to be able, with a total of six megahertz, to be 
competitive with somebody else who can burn up 30 megahertz per 
primary color. 

I think HDTV is an issue where broadcasters and cable are going 
to have to work together. There are a number of reasons for that, one 
of them being that the cable operator still, as a principal part of his 
business, sells his subscribers the retransmission of local broadcast- 
ers' signals. And if we do something with our signal that screws up 


" 


[PER SS а= 


the cable guy’s capability to retransmit it to consumers, it’s not going 
to be in our interest or the cable operator’s interest—or, Obviously, in 
the subscriber’s interest. 

So I think HDTV is certainly an issue where we’ve got to work 
together. I would hope that the cable folks would be able to restrain 
any notion they may have of seeking a competitive advantage 
through having a better HDTV picture for cable program services 
than broadcasters, because if they do that, then the only logical 
competitive response from the broadcasters would be to try and have 
a better HDTV picture, one that might not be compatible with cable 
retransmission. I don’t think that would be good for our business or 
for theirs. 

I don’t say this in any way to diminish the stature of the cable 
industry, but cable began as a supplement to over-the-air broadcast- 
ing precisely because there were a lot of folks who could not get a 
good over-the-air picture. And now, because it seems to fit the 
regulatory philosophy of the day, an effort is being made to set cable 
and broadcast up as completely separate, independent, competitive 
services. And I don’t think that effort fits with the reality out there in 
the marketplace. 

Cable is certainly a principal medium on its own. But there is still 
a strong symbiotic relationship between these two businesses. 
Broadcasters still need cable to deliver their signals to a lot of 
viewers, and cable still needs broadcast signals as the base of the 
service they sell to subscribers. And it may sound great on paper to 
set them up as completely independent and separate services, but I 
don’t think it works that way in the real world. 


It does seem to be sliding that way. 


Agreed. And to the extent that cable is growing more in areas where 
people don’t have to subscribe to cable for over-the-air reception, 
then they are more nearly in a separate competitive stature. 


Does your interest in the flat antenna betray an enthusiasm for direct 
broadcast satellite? 


No. On the contrary, our interest in the flat antenna has been to 
demonstrate to legislators on the Hill that they should not adopt a 
new compulsory license for the dish industry with the mental image 
that they’re passing the bill for some rancher in Wyoming with a 12 
meter dish, when in fact the way the technology is going, we’re 
talking about small, flat panel antennas. And let me emphasize: We 
don’t think this is an independent specific issue. I think it’s a simple 
fact that it’s in the interest of everybody who has to operate within 
the copyright marketplace to have their competitors operating on 
similar terms, And look at it from a public interest standpoint. If you 
were to step back and say we're going to annoint some competitors 
with a compulsory license and others we're not going to favor with a 
compulsory license, we're going to make them negotiate in the 
copyright marketplace. Then you set out on the table the different 
competitors. There's cable, which charges consumers for its service. 
And the satellite industry, which also charges consumers for its 
service. And broadcasters, who give consumers their service for 
free 

From a public policy standpoint, if you wanted to pick one of 
those three competitors to encourage and favor the compulsory 
license, you'd start with the broadcaster, since he's the one who 
gives his service away to the public for free. Instead, the way the 
policy is going on the Hill right now, the free broadcaster is going to 
be the only one mired in the copyright marketplace having to 
actually negotiate and pay for his program rights. 


Well, that's not entirely true. For example, cable negotiates and pays 
for program rights to all cable exciusive programing. And there are 
fees for programs carried under the compulsory license. 


That's exactly right. But you know, we just did a financial survey 
that we're going to unveil at the convention called “Anatomy of an 
Independent," and it shows independents now are spending half of 
their total expenses on programing. And I have to smile a little bit 
when | read the trade press coming out of the Western Cable Show 
and some of the cable industry leaders screaming that something's 
got to be done about their copyright payments because in some cases 
they're approaching 1046 of their total expenses. It's hard to gener- 
ate a whole lot of sympathy. 


How do you feel about the possibility that a return to syndicated 
exclusivity will Increase the cost of programing to broadcasters even 
more? There are some folks who think that Hollywood will use that 
policy to hike its prices significantly. 


Our board carefully considered that possibility before deciding to 
champion the return of syndicated exclusivity. They are convinced 
that over the long haul, the two things they need to survive and 
compete are access and the ability to position themselves as the 
exclusive exhibitors of. whatever product it is they purchase to 
compete with. 


With this recent interest on Capitol Hill in a transfer tax, what's to 
keep Congress from looking at spectrum fees and a whole host of 
other approaches it could take as a quid pro quo for any policy you 
seek. 


That goes back to my earlier comment that broadcasters can't afford 
to be one issue politicians. We've got to look at our historical public 
trustee role and prioritize our interests in all of these issues, and 
decide which we want to make as our priorities. 


Does that mean that you can be all-but-one-issue concerned? You're 
concerned about all issues in the spectrum but the fairness doctrine, 
which you have to stay away from? 


No, that's not it. What I’m saying is we believe that there are 
tradeoffs in life—I think everybody understands that. And I’m not 
suggesting that we wouldn't love to be free, Of course we would. 
But if you look at the burden of the fairness doctrine and you look at 
the burden of some of the other special responsibilities that broad- 
casters have historically had to their communities, and weigh them 
against some of the other issues on the table, such as spectrum fees 
and must carry, broadcasters have to prioritize their interests, just 
like everybody else in life. The President went battling with the 
Congress on a bill and he had to prioritize his interests. And we've 
got to do the same thing. 


But he held out for opposition to the fairness doctrine. 


He has his priorities and we will have to decide on ours. And I’m not 
suggesting that it’s an easy choice or that there is only one right 
answer. All I’m saying is I think that we cannot afford to look at any 
issue in isolation, because you know, the hip bone is connected to 
the thigh bone, and we need to understand the whole landscape 
before we leap out of the starting gate on any individual issue, 


You have a reputation of being a militant advocate for your points of 
view to the point that other trade associations have threatened not to 
deal with you unless you back off. Do you agree with that character- 
ization? And do you have any plans to change your ways? 


I certainly would not characterize us as militant. INTV represents 
the newest and most vulnerable sector of the broadcast industry, and 
I think we have feit the brunt of the difficulty in the marketplace 
more severely than have some other segments of the industry. Our 
complaints about cable have been directly proportional to the 
concems that have been expressed to us by our members. 

We do not believe that we reneged on the must-carry compromise. 
Our filing with the FCC did not encourage repeal of the compulsory 
copyright license for cable; in fact, it supported an expansion of the 
zone of local stations available to cable operators for free under the 
compulsory copyright license. 

At the same time we have no interest in saying or doing anything 
that would give the cable folks a quote to pin up on the bulletin 
board in their locker room, and we hope to address these issues in a 
professional and meaningful way, focusing on the merits of the 
issues On the table. 


How about INTV's filing with the commission on rate regulation? 
What is INTV's interest; what's all that about? 


Pm glad you asked that. INTV has no direct interest in rate 
regulation of cable operators offerings—and our pleading says that. 
The reason we felt compelled to file in that proceeding was not 
whether there should be rate regulation or there should not be rate 
regulation. The issue in that proceeding was quite starkly presented: 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


En 


Т О 7/72 
a 
Ff LN 
А 


VIC | 


Ка": 
с І РРА Ра Й | | E 


1 А 4 


‚1 PD ыы ы 


PERFORMER— PERFORMER 
EIGHT YEARS FROM THE 
RUNNING. WORD “GO.” 
Already renewed for '88, This season, over 
“Entertainment Tonight" 200 markets 


is a proven success. 
Prepared to outperform 
all those "unproven" 
alternatives now and into 
the future. 


A NEW SCI-FI THRILLER WITH 
A 30-YEAR TRACK RECORD. 

An Academy award winner in 1953, 
War of The Worlds has stood the test of 
, time. Now, its time has 

come again in a new 

% TV series that's 
about to invade 
homes across 
the country. 


2 INEN 


ИНЕ NEXT GENERATION 


watched Gene Roddenberry* 
“Next Generation" go right 
to the top—in ratings and demos. Next season, we’re 
ready to boldly “go” even further. 


IT’S AGAME SHOW 
LOVERS’ GAME SHOW. 
Wipe out dull game show 
remakes, comedy- 
celebrity "soft" 
games, floundering 
also-rans and 
retreads with 
“Wipeout” the 
challenging 
new game 
show viewers 
willlove to 
play. 


FOR YEARSTO COME. ~ 
Nobody does comedy 
better than Paramount. 
And we've got some of 
the highest-rated shows 
in network history to 
prove it. 


* « WE'RE TALKING FUN. 

p. МЕКЕ TALKING TRACK RECORD. 
5 WERE TALKING HIT. 

| From the network spotlight, 

Joan Lunden joins forces with 
entertainer Bobby Anderson in 
“The Daytime Show" 

- —a refreshing new daily 
hour of talk, music and fun. 


7) тм 
í 


WE'RE USING 
. SCARE TACTICS 
4: FOR NIGHT- 
” TIME SUCCESS. 


— Oneofour most 
— successful undertakings, 
"Friday the 13th" 
buries all those late 
night talk shows 


** 
Lys x 


andsitcom , 
re-runs. 


© 1987 ЕУ PARAMOUNT PICTURES CORPORATION. А 


) 4 4% 


ж 
* 
* 
» 


RIGHTS RESERVED 


THAT 
WINS AWARDS... AND 
AUDIENCES. 

Now the £1 cable sitcom in 
the country, “Brothers” also 
ranks among the best on the 
networks in attracting the 
audiences necessary for 
syndication success. 


- 


А E E - . а а b. 
e o o ееэеееесеееееееееееееегееегеееееееее, 


B А 


Ф 


* ө ө ө е 


е 
е-еееоеееееееееоеееееееееее 


1415 
v » e «t li? 4 е 


THERE'S ALWAYS 
. SOMETHING 
FUNNY GOING 
ON AT l 
HU 4. E 
TS . j reat comedy is a 
әу Paramount tradition. And 
one look at our lineup of 
all-time favorites will prove it, 


М 
М 


faves 


e n sa aa ata e a uon" ee 


over and over again. 
(ШИШИШИ! Г ра 
Ey Nite 6 
T" 


| 
» "733 “м4! 
Ф 7 ID? 


f 
^ 
= Е 


ә. LET US MAKE YOU 
‚ € ANOFFERYOU ДВ 
72 CAN'TREFUSE M 


The Godfather 
Part I, the world 

television premiere of 
The Godfather Part II 
and “The Godfather Saga" 
. Along with "Space" 
and “Wallenberg,” it's 
a gangbuster 
movie package. 


"C. 


Ls 


- 


ж-- 


l. ONE OF THE BIGGEST 
GUNS IN TELEVISION 
HISTORY! 
» This наци еви 
starring Kobert Mitchum an 
SUCCESS IS Ali Mee js now available 


ALWAYS A GOOD for its command performance 
TOPIC FOR run in syndication. 
DISCUSSION. 


His rating triumphs are in 
. the books. Now you can put 
Geraldo's special brand 
of journalism to work for 
you—five days a week. 


©1987 BY PARAMOUNT PICTURES CORPORATION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 


IL ао" LL Sci o AY LANG Е ee ee oe, 


that the networks have lost. And in our positioning, on all of these 
cable issues, the bottom line has been our interest in trying to make 
sure that the cable operators’ control over the conduit is not allowed 
to unduly influence the competition between the independent sta- 
tions and the cable program services for that audience. 

We think, in a perfect world, that USA Network and an indepen- 
dent station ought to compete for the viewer’s affection based on 
how good a job they do in programing their channel and not whether 
they've given up a piece of their equity to the guy who controls the 
conduit through which the product gets delivered to the home. 


What do you think of the networks’ interest in acquiring equities in 
cable programers? Do you see that as a trend in where they're 
headed? 


I don't really have any specific reaction to that. | was more 
concerned about the noises we've begun to hear about attempting to 
seek repeal of the prime time access rule and the correlary syndica- 
tion and financial interest rules. Our stations have now begun to 
achieve some success in the marketplace, and it has come at the 
expense of network audience. But the fastest way to send us right 
straight back to the days of roller derbies and wrestling would be to 
put the networks in a position to cut off the supply of popular off- 
network product to independent stations. 


And you've heard some rumblings to that effect? 


Larry Tisch (of CBS] came to Washington not too long ago and 
made a pretty clear statement as to his desire to have those rules 
revisited. 


But you don't sense that the FCC is interested in that, do you? 


I haven't talked to the FCC about it; | think it behooves us not to sit 
around herc waiting until thc FCC issues a notice of proposed 
rulemaking. 

You've been talking about achieving a level marketplace, with cable 
having to get rid of the compulsory license. It seems to me the 


financial interest rules are the networks' version of the compulsory 
license; that's how their hands are tied behind their backs in the 
marketplace. It sounds as though you're looking for regulation for 
the other guy, but not for yourselves. 


If the independents ever really achieve a position of market parity 
with the networks, then we will lead the parade to repeal any of 
these provisions that have arisen from the special place the networks 
play in the industry. But the little growth we have enjoyed does not 
change the fact that the three networks still occupy an absolutely 
unique position in this industry, and if given the opportunity, they 
would certainly have every incentive in thc world to withhold 
popular product first produced for network exhibition from our 
stations. | know it wouldn't serve our interests and I don't think it 
would serve the public's interest, and until the networks are no 
longer in a unique position in the industry I think we continue to 
need these regulations. 


We think you can either rely on competition and competitive forces, 
or you can rely on government regulation. What you can't have is a 
situation. where anti-competitive forces are restrained by neither 
competition nor regulation. That's when we get into trouble. 


What do you want your members to walk away from the convention 
with? 


A real sense of understanding and pride about the audience levels 
they have achieved. The theme for our convention is "Independents 
"88, the Real Super Stations.” Look at what they've done without 
any compulsory license, without any network affiliations or any of 
the other tools that other folks have had. They have gone out, put 
new facilities on the air, ponied up to the bar and paid a king's 
ransom for programing and they have found an audience, they have 
provided service that wasn't there before, they provided a diversity 
that wasn't there before, on a local broadcast basis, and the numbers 
are now showing up in the metered based audience measurements. 
They should feel very, very proud of what they have achieved. 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


ІМГУ 1988 


The annual declaration of independents in Los Angeles 


HE 


BLAIR DECLA 
INDEPENDENTS. 


Experienced, dedicated people produce results. When it comes to independent television, Blair 
speaks from experience. Our Independent Division staff averages five years of selling for 
independent stations. Research managers have seven years of independent specialization, their 
analysts more than three years. To learn more about how Blair gets results for independents, call 


Jim Kelly. (212) 603-5254. 
mes BLAIR. ONLY BLAIR а 
Ld) 


A subsidiary of John Blair Communications, Inc. TELEVISION 


CHEFR UP 


SNORKS 


ARE COMING 
FROM 
HANNA-BARBERA. 


^" Ы 


Here come some of the most captivating characters 
in all of animation from the people who brought 
you the beloved Smurfs? 


A world filled with Snorks™ would be a better place to 
live. Help improve the world —program the Snorks:" 


Available Fall 1988. 65 half-hours. 


ADVERTISER SUPPORTED PROGRAMMING 


The World's Leading Distributor 
for Independent Television Producers 


New York. Los Angeles. Chicago. Atlanta, London, Paris, Tokyo. 
Sydney. Toronto, Rio de Janeiro, Munich, Rome 


1985 Hanna-Barbera Productions Inc. and SEPP. S.A 


2O HIS 
ТНА САМ 


Your programming universe is about to be 
expanded by the stellar performances of 


todays brightest stars. 
Richard Burton Lee Van Cleef 
Robert Mitchum Karen Black 
Rod Steiger Edward Albert 
| Сип Jergens Judge Reinhold 
Barry Newman Pat Hingle 
WHENTHEBOUGH VASECTOMY: George Peppard Bradford Dillman 
BREAKS A DELICATE MATTER George Hamilton Јоһп Saxon 
NM SED aie Suzanne Pleshette Mickey Rooney 
DEADLINE PATRICK Bert Convy Robert Preston 
UNCOMMON VALOR HAPPY Glenda Jackson Patty Duke Astin 
BREAKTHROUGH SEPTEMBER GUN Melina Mercouri Sally Kellerman 
RUNNING SCARED BAD GUYS Geraldine Page Lindsay Wagner 
SENIOR TRIP MY SISTER’S KEEPER Sandy Dennis Ben Murphy 
HELP WANTED: MALE FROM HELL Anne Jackson Paul Sorvino 
THE DIRT BIKE KID TO VICTORY Eli Wallach Ted Danson 
Rip Torn Ruth Buzzi 
Dame Edith Evans Abe Vigoda 


1987 WORLOVISION ENTERPRISES, INC. 


And it's all from one source... 


у WORLDVISION 
7 ENTERPRISES INC. 


| he World's Leading Distributor 


ғасы 
— 


for Independent Television Producers 


New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Atlanta, London, Paris, Tokyo, 


Sydney, Toronto, Rio de Janeiro, Munich, Rome 


THEY DO RUN RUN RUN 


HOURS 


The Streets of San Francisco 
Combat 

The Fugitive 

Ben Casey 

The Invaders 

Man From Atlantis 

Mod Squad 


HALF-HOURS 


Dark Shadows 

That Girl 

Annie Oakley 

Buffalo Bill 

The Doris Day Show 
Douglas Fairbanks Presents 
The Mickey Rooney Show 


N.Y.P.D. 

One Step Beyond 
People's Choice 
The Range Rider 
The Rebel 
Wendy And Me 


vey Cartoons 
a! 


casper © '* 


CHILDREN 


Casper The Friendly Ghost 
George of the Jungle 
Jackson Five 

Jerry Lewis 

King Kong 

Lancelot Link-Secret Chimp 
Milton The Monster 
Professor Kitzel 

Smokey The Bear 


MINI-SERIES 
Against The Wind 
Holocaust 


FEATURES 


Prime |, Prime Il, 
Prime Ill, Prime IV 


Y DORUN RUN. 


EVERGREEN. EVER GREAT 


Evergreen is always in season. With programs that run forever. 

Classics that are Ever New; Ever Fresh; Evergreen. Thousands of engrossing hours 
of programming to fit your schedule from sun up to sun down. 

Movies, off-network series, mini-series, game shows, specials, children’s 
programs and more. 

Catch the excitement of classic television that runs and runs and runs. 


GAME SHOW/VARIETY SPECIALS 
Take Му Word For It 

The Don Lane Show 

Come Along 

Wonders of the Wild 

And Many, Many more... 


Ñ 


M 


PROGRAMS INC. 
A DIVISION OF  WORLDVISION ENTERPRISES INC 
660 Madison Ave New York, NY 10021 - (212) 632-3838 
9465 Wilshire Bivd.. Beverly Hills. СА 90212 - (213) 273-7667 
625 N. Michigan Ave . Chicago. IL 60611 - (312) 642-2650 


r 


A. 
JA. 
T. 
ма. 
т. 
Am. 
T. 
а. 
а. 
М. 
ВА. 
“Жа. 


The Ceniury Plaza in Los Angeles 


As the management of independent television stations assembles in 
Los Angeles this week for the 1988 convention of the Association of 
Independent Television Stations (INTV), sighs of relief will prob- 
ably be heard. A difficult year for the stations had just ended. 
Among the woes that beset many independents were burdensome 
financing (in the case of limited partnerships) and a growing pattern 
of unwise program purchases that crippled some stations with 
payments for shows simply held in reserve. 

At the heart of the difficulties was a troubling year in advertising 
revenue that was at least partially responsible for one Chapter 11 
bankruptcy filing by a major group of independents, Grant Broad- 
casting Systems. 

That theme was still on the minds of many going to the conven- 
tion. Ron Inman, INTV vice president of marketing, put it bluntly: 
"It was a tough year." 

In 1987, independents dealt with adversity by more closely 
monitoring programing costs (which typically constitute from one- 
third to two-thirds of a station's expenses), and by developing more 
creative sales strategies. In line with a more conservative business 
attitude, many station executives were not forecasting huge adver- 
tising increases during 1988, despite the quadrennial election- 
Olympic year boost. INTV will release a “top-to-bottom” cost 
analysis for stations at the convention. 

Total advertising revenue in 1987 (through November) grew more 


Independent 
Television 


slowly than in the first 11 months of 1986. rising 6.3% in 1987, 
versus 8% the year before (based on Television Bureau of Advertis- 
ing data including 97 of the country’s 335 independents). Regional- 
ly, that can be broken down to 5.9% growth for the East, 4% for the 
South, 12% for the Midwest and 3.3% for the West. 

On the local level, for the first three quarters of the year, revenues 
were up 11.9% over the first three quarters of 1986, the same growth 
rate of 1986 over 1985. Local revenues for stations grew at more 
than twice the rate of national spot in the first three quarters. 

At WATL(TV) Atlanta. general sales manager Gene McHugh said 
that although his station’s sales revenues are still split 60%-40% 
between national and local sales, a new push is being made on local 
retailers. McHugh said the station has been putting more effort into 
promotional tie-ins to generate local sales. 

One factor helping to boost sales for Atlanta stations—both 
locally and nationally—is the metering of that market by both 
Nielsen and Arbitron. “We finally have some truth in advertising,” 
McHugh said, adding that with meters there has been а 16-5һаге- 
point shift, from affiliates to independents. 

Bill Scaffide, general sales manager at WUAB(TV) Cleveland, said 
that “we had to work a lot harder" to accomplish 9% sales growth in 
1987. 

Although promotional tie-ins and other "creative sales" strategies 
helped some independents, such strategies make sales more costly 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


Look who we put 
under "household'arrest. 


"слана 7 


 Youll n never find a mon 


Cagney & Lacey has got what it takes: 
A loyal audience of men and women 
A growing audience of teens and kids 
Top numbers in first-run and repeat 
An audience profile that advertisers pay a premium to reach 
It all adds up to one thing — ratings success for you in syndication. 
Put Cagney & Lacey in your lineup. 
To settle for anything less is a crime. 


ommitted audience. 


ORION 


TELEVISION SYNDICATION 


©1987 ORION TV PRODUCTIONS, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED : 


CRIMI 


ы. Ф-” 
== 


AMERICA'S NIGHTE 


ЛЕ? 


; THE WORLD IS OUR ВІ 

2312 With а hard-hitting half-hour | и Fed daily we'll use the lates 

2 Across the country, the network > ' every weekday, Crimewatch “ж” 7 satellite technology о deliv: 

^ dramas and syndication specials Tonight will cover every facetof ^ the hottest crime stories. Ош 

that capture the highest ratings are crime. Prom white collar crime to anchors and field producer/repo: 

almost always crime oriented. Now, terrorism; from espionage to the mob; will tackle the world of crime eac 

Orion introduces Crimewatch Tonight, from street crime to government day, utilizing our own national bui 

a national, network quality program corruption; from crimes of passion plus TV stations, newspapers anc 

dedicated solely to crime related to crimes of compassion. wire services in the U.S. and ove: 
coverage. 

© 1987 ORION TELEVISION SYNDICATION ALL RIGHTS RESERVEO 


VATCH 
GHT 


CRIME REPORT 


MEN 
0 


, IS A CRIME NOT TO BUY IT! Crimewatch Tonight. 
2 Crimewatch Tonight is Executive 


BEN ^ ее Tenn re ready to deal in hot goods, 
КЕ founding President of CNN. Crime- са поп, your partners in crime. 


watch Tonight is a natural companion Г.) е 
to your news programming as well as 

powerful counter programming to i 

game shows, magazines and sit-coms. 


With a unique format and highly fo- TELEVISION SYNDICATION 


cused concept, Crimewatch Tonight 
delivers the payoff in Prime Access. 


(oe аа ee ee олен ш иеастенс тесто тотна: чырынын лети 


and are not undertaken casually, according to sales managers, who 
were careful to point out that promotional tie-ins are not always a 
panacea 

The biggest push by independents in 1987 probably came under 
the heading of programing. Indeed, those shows that occupy the first 
tier in what is commonly called syndication's two-tiered market- 
place (The Cosby Show, Wheel of Fortune, Jeopardy, The Oprah 
Winfrey Show) are, with certain exceptions, cleared on lineups 
comprising mostly affiliates. 

Said Martin Ozer, president, Katz Independent Television: “1987 
was a more cautious year for independents.” He said that "A lot of 
Stations are now looking at whether they want to be number one and 
lose money, or number two and make a profit.” Katz is now being 
asked for more advice in running stations than in previous years, he 
added. 

Michael Eigner, vice president and station manager of KTLA(TV) 
Los Angeles, agreed. Despite projections of double-digit revenue 
increases for KTLA (based on continued growth of the market), 
which should outpace national television advertising in 1988, 
Eigner said the station's programing philosophy has become "more 
conservative," 

“This year in programing,” he said, “continues to be higher than 
the year before,” in terms of show prices. “But the increases are not 
as great as in the past. It’s a buyer's market from the standpoint that 
people are being more cautious.” he said. 

Eigner said that given the recent experience of independents, 
programing can stay on the shelf only “if it can be justified from a 
profit standpoint. If not,” he said, "the amortization expense won't 
go away." 

From the syndicator's side of the fence, Joe Zaleski, president of 


domestic syndication, Viacom Enterprises, said that a lot of stations 
are using all of the programing inventory that's “оп the shelf.” And 
that will bode well for syndicators next year when those stations’ 
shelves will be bare. 

“I think that the indies that were on shaky ground have sifted ош” 
of the market, Zaleski added. "We will have more buyers" this year, 
he said, not only from broadcast stations, but from cable outlets 
also. 

As for how many bankruptcy filings have taken place in the 
independent ranks within the past 18 months, estimates vary, but 
according to sources including lawyers, station executives, and 
investment bankers, the number of filings comes to at least 24. 
Notable among those were the filings by Grant and Media Central. 

Joseph Eisenberg, of the Los Angeles law firm of Levene & 
Eisenberg, said that with "the tremendous number of financial 
problems besetting the business in 1987," bankruptcy filings by 
independents will continue into 1988. 

Concerning prices of independents, Ron Ninowski of the station 
brokerage firm, Gammon & Ninowski, said that prices paid for 
stations will remain down, compared to the levels in better econom- 
ic times. Helping to keep prices down, he said, has been a retreat 
from the independent television business by some of the investment 
firms that financed purchases in the past. 

"We're going to see sales," Ninowski said, because "sellers are 
more realistic now. We're no longer in the days when buyers can get 
second and third tier financing." Buys currently require more cash 
up front, and less involved financing, he said. Between the difficul- 
ties the business has endured and the reaction to those difficulties by 
financing agents, the ownership of independent television is now 
returning to "traditional broadcasters,” Ninowski said. a 


The daily schedule at INTV 


Wednesday, Jan. 6 


Continental breakfast. 8:30 a.m. California lounge. 


Opening session. 9 a.m., Los Angeles room. Welcome: John A. 
Serrao, convention chairman, WATL(TV) Atlanta. Chairman's report: 
Charles L. Edwards, INTV board chairman, KTvT(Tv) Fort Worth. 
President's report: Preston Padden, INTV president. 

The Business of Independent Television. Presentation by Paul Ka- 
gan, Paul Kagan & Associates. Reaction panelists: Barry Thurston, 
Columbia Pictures Television; Milton Maltz, Malrite Communications 
Group; Sandy Freschi, Frazier, Gross & Kadlec, and Fred Segal, 
Shearson Lehman Brothers. 


General managers meeting and luncheon. (Closed.) 11 a.m.-2 
p.m. Century | room (tower). Anatomy of an Independent financial 
survey: John Serrao, WATL(Tv) Atlanta. Meter/Diary Calibration Pro- 
ject Update: Sue Rynn. INTV, New York. Washington Report: Jim 
Неаіџпа, INTV Washington. Marketing Report: Ron Inman, INTV 
New York 

Sales managers meeting and luncheon. 11 a.m.-2 p.m. Beverly 
Hilis Room. Moderator: Christopher Jackson, Christopher Jackson 
Inc., New York. 

Program directors meeting and luncheon. 11 a.m.-2 p.m. Pacific 
Pallisades room. Takeover Survival Kit: Moderator: Rob Friedman, 
INTV New York. Panelists: Ron Ninowski, Gammon & Ninowski; Curt 
Bertsch, Meridian Communications; Bob Beizer, Schnader Harrison 
Segal & Lewis, Washington, and Mel Smith, Tribune Broadcasting Co. 
Program Schedule Thursday, Jan. 7, 1993: Moderator: Rob Fried- 
man, INTV, New York. Panelists: David Simon, Fox Television Stations; 
Jon Gluck, MMT Sales 1пс.; Perry Simon, NBC Entertainment; David 
Kenin, USA Network, and George Back, All American Television. 


Screening suites. 2-6 p.m. (5th, 6th and 7th floors). 
Reception. 6:30-7:30 p.m., California lounge. 


Opening night dinner and show. 7:30-10 p.m., Los Angeles ball- 
room. 


Great American beach party. 10 p.m.-midnight, Calitornia show- 
room A. 


Thursday, Jan. 7 


Washington public policy power breakfast. 7:30 a.m., Santa Moni- 
ca room. Moderators: Shaun Sheehan, Tribune Broadcasting Co., 
Thomas Herwitz, Fox Television Stations. Panelists: Senior FCC, 
congressional and administrative staff. 


Session. 8:45 a.m., Beverly Hills room. The Political Advertising 
Process. Moderator: Ron Inman, INTY New York. Panelists: Victor 
Ferrall, Crowell & Moring; Cathy Egan, Katz Independent Television, 
and Patty Frierson, Vote America. 


Session. 10:15 a.m., Santa Monica room. The Grand Inquisition. 
Government Leaders Interrogate the Telecommunications Industry. 
Moderator: Eddie Fritts, National Association of Broadcasters. In. 
quisitors: James Quello, FCC; Diane Killory FCC; Alfred Sikes. 
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Com- 
merce Department. Panelists: John Siegel, кВнк-ту San Franciscc 
(broadcasting); Dick Robertson, Lorimar Telepictures (production) 
Kay Koplovitz, USA Network (satellite program services); John Cole 
Cole Raywid & Braverman (cable), and Gerry Lenfest, The Lenfest 
Group (cable). 


Keynote luncheon. Noon-2 p.m., Los Angeles ballroom. Speaker. 
Dennis Patrick, FOC chairman. 


Screening suites. 2-6 p.m. (5th, 6th and 7th floors). 


Friday, Jan. 8 


Breakfast: INTV Political Action Committee. (Closed.) 7:30 a.m. 
Century | room (tower). Speaker: Edward Markey (D-Mass.), chair- 
man, Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance. 


Continental breakfast. 8 a.m., California lounge. 


Session. 8:45 a.m., Beverly Hills room. Politics and Public Policy. 
Moderator: Jim Hedlund, INTV, Washington. Panelists: John Bryan 
(D-Tex.); Dan Coats (R-Ind.); Dennis Eckart (D-Ohio); Edward Markey 
(D-Mass.); Michael Oxley (R-Ohio). 


Promotion awards presentation. 10 a.m., Los Angeles room. Pre 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


72 


TOUGH TIMES 
CALL FOR SHOWS 
THAT CAN 
HACK IT. 


NOBODY CARVES OU 


A NEW LINE CINEMA 


production in association with 


LORIMAR 


SYNDICATION 


а oam Tii: 


| NICHE LIKE FREDDY. 


The man of your dreams is coming to television 
this Fall. And how. His weekly first-run hour is 
going to be a nightmare for your competition. 

Freddy Krueger, the sinister sandman, has 
already hooked the country through his incredible 
performance at the box office and in home video. 
He's very sharp. 

Now he comes to television well armed to cut out 
a huge slice of the late night audience. Don't miss 
your share. 

Take a stab 


at greater е 
ratings with 
Freddy. The 
hottest face 

on TV. 


cs азі 


senter: Steve Bell, KTLA(TV) Los Angeles. Children Gone—And Why? Introduction: Sue Rynn, INTV, New York. 
Session. Noon-2 p.m., Los Angeles ballroom. Luncheon session. Presenters: Marvin Schoenwald and Elaine Morgenstein, M/E Market- 
Programing: Betting the Whole Bundle. ing and Research Inc. 


Screening suites. Open 2-6 p.m. (5th, 6th and 7th floors). 
Gala studio party. 7 p.m., Lorimar Telepictures Studio. 


Session. 10:30 a.m., Beverly Hills room. HDTV, Fiber Optics and 
Qur Future. Moderator: Harry Pappas, Pappas Telecasting. Present- 
ers: Steve Bonica, NBC Operations and Technical Services; Masao 
Sugimoto, NHK (Japan Broadcasting Co.), and William Glenn, New 
York Institute of Technology. Reactors: Ben Crutchfield, NAB; Greg 
DePriest, Association of Maximum Service Telecasters, and Hal 
Protter, wvTV(TV) Milwaukee. 


Saturday, Jan. 9 
Continental breakfast. 8 a.m., California lounge. 
Distributor breakfast. (Closed.) 8 a.m., Century room. 
Session. 9-10:15 a.m., Los Angeles room. Where Have All the Adjournment. 11:45 a.m. 


Who's who on 
the INTV 
exhibit floor 


* indicates new product 

ABR Entertainment Company 722 
32193 W. Lindero Canyon Rd., West- 
lake Village, Calif. 91361 

First run: Lingo; Yahtzee; Tell it to Har- 
vey; Animated Classics; Candid Kids. 
Syndication: ABR Feature Collection; 
Yes Virginia, There Is a Santa Claus; 
Crosswits; Roller Derby Gold; Raquel; 
The Ann-Margaret Show from Holly- 
wood with Love; The All Star Swing 
Festival; The Darin Invasion; The Fifth 
Dimension; The Lou Rawls Show; The 
Sonny & Cher Nitty Grity Comedy 
Hour; Saga of Sonora; Old Faithful; Dr. 
Jekyll & Mr. Hyde; Once Upon a Wheel; 
The London Bridge Special; Rollin’ on 
the River; Half the George Kirby Com- 
edy Hour; The Barbara McNair Series; 
The Ann-Margaret Show; Story Theatre. 
Animated classics: Robin Hood; 
20,000 Leagues Under the Sea; The 
Hunchback of Notre Dame; The Man in 
the Iron Mask; Ivanhoe; King Solomon's 
Mines; Tom Sawyer; Kidnapped; The 
Three Musketeers; Ог Jekyll & Мг. 
Hyde; The Last of the Mohicans; Don 
Quixote; Rob Roy; Treasure Island; 
Black Beauty; Prisoner of Zenda; Peter 
Pan; The Odyssey; Alice in Wonder- 
land; Hiawatha; Westward Ho; Black 
Arrow; Wind in the Willows; Around the 
World in 80 Days. Series: Sherlock 
Holmes and the Baskerville Curse; 
Sherlock Holmes and the Sign of Four; 
Sherlock Holmes and a Study in Scar- 
let; Sherlock Holmes and the Valley of 
Fear. Staff: Alexander Burt Rosen; Rog- 
er B. Adams; Jack Donahue; Bobbie 
Marcus, Ron Johnson. 


Acama Films, Inc. 711, 715 

14724 Ventura Blud. #610, Sherman 
Oaks, Calif. 91403 

Staff: William Morrison, James 
Sowards; Ed Hawkins; Lon Fishback; 
Art Brala, John Cosgrove 


Access Syndication 527, 529 
12345 Ventura Blvd., Suite H, Studio 


City, Calif. 91604 
All American Television Co. 738, 740 
Baruch Television Group 607 


Biair Entertainment 528, 530 
1990 Avenue of the Americas, New 
York 10104 

Programs: Divorce Court; Fan Club’; 
Backstage"; Sports Challenge (tele- 
phone interactive show). Series: The 
Cisco Kid, Death Valley Days. Pack- 
ages/features: Star Power 20, Re- 
venge Movie Package. Children: The 
Lollipop Dragon. Sports: Wake Up the 
Echoes, History of Notre Dame Foot- 
ball; NFL Great Moments; Great Plays 
from Glory Days; Legends of College 
Basketball; College Football Scrap- 
book; Road to the Superbowl '88; NFL 
Update '87, three major league base- 
ball specials. Information: Metro- 
phone (services system). Staff: Ken 
Donnellon; Alan Berkowitz; Len Giarra- 
puto; Michael Weiser; Howard Levy; 
Donna Landau; Linda McMann, Jack 
Foley. 


Broadcast Management Plus 551 
1451 California Ave., Palo Alto, Calif. 
9280) 

Staff: Roger Cooper; David В. Ludwig 
ІІ; Brian Brady; Chuck Briggs; Steve 
Michaud; Richard Lamb; Robert 
Coliins. 


Buena Vista Television 710-716 

500 South Buena Vista Street, Bur- 
bank, Calif. 91521 

Staff: Rich Frank; Peter Affe; Jamie 
Bennett; Bill DeWert; Larry Franken- 
bach; Rich Goldman; Mary Kellogg; 
Mike Mellon; Peter Newgard; Mike Tan- 
ner; Kit Simon; Bob Jacquemin; John 
Attebery; Bruno Cohen; Ken Dubow; 
Lisa Gamboa; Matt Jacobson; Janice 
Marinelli; David Morris; Jim Packer, 
Mark Zoradi. 

Cable Link 1700 

280 Cozzins St., Columbus, Ohio 43215 

Staff: Bill Holehouse; Mark Romero; 
Abdollah Zekri; Mike Kiehl; Dennis Ci- 
morell; Brenda Rowe. 

Claster Television Inc. 656-660 

9630 Deerco Road, Timonium, Md. 
21093 

Animated programs: My Little Pony 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
76 


and Friends; Glo Friends Save Christ- 
mas; G.I. Joe; Jem; Visionaries"; Trans- 
formers, C.O.PS. Children: Romper 
Room and Friends. Staff: John Claster; 
Sally Claster Bell; Janice Carter; Terri 
Akman; John Russel; Peggy Powell, 
Bambi Nevel. 


Joel Cohen  Production/  Distri- 
bution 640 


Columbia/Embassy Television, 
Columbia Pictures Television601-605 
3300 Riverside Drive, Burbank, Calif. 
91505 

Off-network series: Archie Bunker's 
Place; Barney Miller; Benson; Carson's 
Comedy Classics; Carter Country; Dif- 
f'rent Strokes; The Facts of Life; Fish; 
Good Times; The Jeffersons; Maude; 
One Day at a Time; Sanford & Son; 
Silver Spoons; Soap; Square Pegs; The 
Three Stooges; Charlies Angels; Fanta- 
sy Island; Hart to Hart; Police Story; 
Police Woman; S.WA.T.; Starsky and 
Hutch, TJ. Hooker Features/pack- 
ages: Columbia Night at the Movies; 
Entertainer of the Year; Embassy Il; Em- 
bassy Ill; TV 20; Volume IV, Volume V, 
Volume Vl; Columbia Gems, Columbia 
Gems ll. Staff: Gary Lieberthal; Barry 
Thurston; Michael Zucker; Leslie Tobin; 
David Mumford; Meade Camp; Terry 
Mackin; Jeff Gallop; William Clark; Les- 
lie Glenn; Alan Daniels; Deborah Wil- 
lard; Francine Beougher; Joseph Tul- 
loch; Susan Grant, Joe Kissack. 


Dallas Post Production Center 731 


D.L. Taffner/Ltd. 531 
31 W. 56th Street, New York 10019 
Game show: Whose Вару?. First-run 
series: Check It Out!. Off-network se- 
ries: Threes Company; Ted Knight/Too 
Close for Comfort; Check It Out!; The 
Ropers, Threes a Crowd. Animated 
shows: Animated Family Classics’, 
Danger Mouse. Comedy: Thames 
Comedy Originals; The Benny Hill 
Show; Robins Nest; After Benny; Man 
About the House; George & Mildred, 
Keep !t In the Family. Specials: The 
Benny Hill Specials ! and II, The Crazy 
World of Benny Hill. Mini-series: Blood 
& Honor. Documentaries: World at 
War; Hollywood, Destination America. 
News special: Crime, Inc. Staff: Rick 
Levy; Joe Ceslik, Mike Fahn. 


Join us in 1988 for an outstanding array of first run films including “Dirty Dancing” 


60 Long Ridge Road 
РО. Box 4000 
Stamford, CT 06907 
203-968-0000 
Telex: 475 0118 


2029 Century Park East 
Suite 200 

Los Angeles, CA 90067 
213-551-1723 

Telex: 188 3663 


1128 White Lake Court 
Fort Worth, TX 76103 
817-654-2401 


©1987 Vestron Television 
All Rights Reserved 


@ 


VESTRON 
TELEVISION 


Direct Response Marketing 517 
17609 Ventura Blvd., Encino, Calif. 
91316 

Staff: Elaine Roth, Gary Wetter, Bentley 
Wolfe, Melanie Davis, Gwen Gowan, Liz 
Rodriguez. 


Enterprise Systems Group 542 
2790 N. Academy Blvd., #210, Colora- 
do Springs 80917 

Programs: BMS Traffic; Bullseye De- 
mographics*, Film Management. Staff: 
Janet  Glese, Bill Phillips, Greg 
Calhoun. 


Four Star International 609 


Fries Distribution Co. 629, 631 
6922 Hollywood Blvd., Los Angeles 
90028 


Series: Queen for a Day; The New Gen- 
eration. Mini-series: Queen of the 
South Seas. Features/packages: Fries 
Frame 4; Fries Frame 3; Fries Frame 2; 
Fries Frame 1. Special: Born Famous. 
Staff: Ave Butensky; Peter Schmid, Lou 
Wexner. 


Genesis Entertainment 717-721 
5749 Corsa Avenue $210, Westlake 
Village, Calif. 91362 

Programs: The Best of National Geo- 
graphic; The Judge, The Great Es- 
cape. Staff: Gary Gannaway; Phil Old- 
ham; Don Springer, Betsy Green. 


The Samuel Goldwyn Company 633, 
635 

10203 Santa Monica Blvd., #500, Los 
Angeles, CA 90067-6403 


Group W Productions 612-616 

3801 Barham Blvd., Los Angeles 90068 

Programs: Getaway’; Life's Most Em- 
barrassing > Moments"; Bugsburg"; 
Brave Starr*; Hour Magazine; The Wil 
Shriner Show; Lifequest; Ghostbusters; 
He-Man and the Masters of the Uni- 
verse; She-Ra: Princess of Power. 
Staff: Edwin Vane; George Resing Jr.; 
Kevin Tannehill; Tony Dwyer; David Jac- 
quemin; Gerard Farrell, Owen Simon. 


Hal Roach Studios, Inc. 702-706 
345 No. Maple Drive $210, Beverly 
Hills, Calif. 90210 

Programs: T and Т“; Flip*; The Family 
Show"; Laurel & Hardy; Crossbow, The 
New Leave It to Beaver. Staff: Mort 
Marcus; Jody Shapiro; Tim Noonan; 
Mike Russo; Paul Puskar; Bill Marcus; 
Rob Word; Delilah Loud, Sherri Levy. 


Harmony Gold 511-515 

8881 Sunset Blvd., Los Angeles 90069 

Міпі-ѕегіеѕ: King of the Olympics"; 
The Man Who Lived at the Ritz*; Shaka 
Zulu; William the Conqueror; The Count 
of Monte Cristo, Sandokan. Magazine/ 
talk: The Rita Davenport Show^. Docu- 
mentaries: Animals of Africa". Fea- 
tures/packages: Harmony Golden |, 
Bonzai Theater. Animated series: Ro- 
botech, Capatain Harlock and the 
Queen of a Thousand Years. Animated 
features: Storybook Theater"; Lens- 


man; Gigi and the Fountain of Youth. 
Animation adventure theater: Robo- 
tech: The Sentinels*; The World of the 
Talisman*, Once Upon a Time’. Staff: 
Robert Lioyd; Paul Wischmeyer, Linda 
Hindley. 


Home Shopping Network 639 
1529 U.S. 19 South, Clearwater, Fla. 
88546 


Raymond Horn Syndication 621 
38 West 32d St, #1610, New York 
10001 

Series: Its Showtime at the Apollo; Es- 
sence: The Television Program; Curlys 
Kids; Americas Black Forum; The 
Doomer, The Dance Connection. Spe- 
cials: Tribute to Eddie Robinson; The 
Making of a Holiday; Essence: Super- 
star Specials; The Auto Show; Talented 
Teens International, Legends of Malibu. 
Inserts: Essence Moments. Staff: Ray- 
mond Horn; Gloria Horn, Chuck Wicker. 


INN—The Independent News 534 
220 E. 42d Street, 10th floor, New York 
10017 

Programs: Index Election '88' (con- 
vention news service); USA Tonight; 
USA Tonight Primetime Newsbriefs, 
INDX—The Independent Exchange, 
The Christian Science Monitor Reports. 
Staff: John Corporon; Barbara Mor- 
timer, Christine Gebhardt. 


INTV 649 
5455 Wilshire Blud. #1209, Los Ange- 
les 90086 


ITC Entertainment, Inc. 723 
115 East 57th Street, 11th Floor, New 
York 10022 

Programs: TIKO: Pride of the Rockies"; 
Entertainment Volume Seven*; Enter- 
tainment Volume Six; Entertainment Vol- 
ume Five; Entertainment Volume One; 
Entertainment Volume Two. Staff: Jim 
Stern, Charlie Keys. 


ITF Enterprises, Inc. 548 
2 Greenwich Plaza, 4th Floor, Green- 
wich, Conn. 06830 


Independent Television Network 648 
747 Third Ave., New York 10017 
Staff: R. Michael Kammerer; Kevin P. 
Murphy; Michael C. Murphy; Steve 
Templeton; Marie LeFevre; Jack Raf- 
ferty, Steve Everitt. 


Lester Kamin & Co. 728 
6100 Corporate Drive, Houston 77036 


Kidder, Peabody & Co. 1902 

42d floor, 101 Park Ave., New York 
10178 

Brokerage company. Staff: David Sie- 
gel, Tammi Woolf. 


King World 701, 703 
12400 Wilshire Blvd. #1200, Los Ange- 
les 90025 

Programs: Wheel of Fortune; Jeopar- 
dy; Oprah Winfrey Features: Comedy 
Club; Classic Detectives; Epics; Spot- 


light; Popcorn Theatre; Little Rascals; | 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
7R 


Guns of Will Sonnett and Branded; Top- 
per, Mr. Food. Staff: Roger King; Mi- 
chael King; Sid Cohen; Marianne Cata- 
lano, Lee Leddy. 

LBS Communications 521-526 
9220 Sunset Blvd., #101-A, Los Ange- 
les 90069 


First run series: Family Feud; The New 
American Bandstand; The New Gidget; 
Tales from the Darkside. Features/ 
packages: LBS spectrum l; Hope Dia- 
monds. Specials: LBS Live Event spe- 
cials; Scared Straight! Ten Years Later; 
Treasures of the Titanic; Smithsonian 
Treasures; Long Hot Summer; Test Se- 
ries, It Came Upon The Midnight Clear. 
Documentary: The Story of Rock 'n' 
Roll. Off-network series: Hardcastle & 
McCormick; І.С.Е. Classics, Family. 
Children: The Adventures of Teddy 
Ruxpin; Powermasters; Care Bears and 
Friends at the Movies; Heathcliff, Super- 
friends; Mask, Inspector Gadget. TV 
Horizons Advertiser Sales Pro- 
grams: What's Happening Now!; 

The Real Ghostbusters; Hollywood 
Squares; MGM/UA Premiere Network; 
Hal Roach Colorization Network; The 
Bells of St. Marys; The Sands of Iwo 
Jima; $100,000 Pyramid; Small Wonder, 
A Current Affair LBS International 
Programs: Features: Bonanza: The 
Next Generation, Vietnam War Story 
First-run series: New American Band- 
stand, Our Group. Specials: A Childs 
Christmas іл Wales; Forever James 
Dean; Scared Straight! Ten Years Later; 
Smithsonian World. Children: Care 
Bear Family. Situation Comedies: You 
Cant Take It with You. Music Series: 
The Story of Rock 'n' Roll, Music Ma- 
chines. Drama: Horror Trilogy (Night 
Elevator, Akhbars Daughter, Attic 
Suite). Staff: Henry Siegel; Alan Ben- 
nett; Phil Howort; Paul Siegel; Mike Wei- 
den, John Storrier; Tony Intelisano; Jon 
Nottingham; Ira Bernstein; Andrew 
Holtzman; John Mansfield; Louise Per- 
illo; Rand Stoll; Lou Israel; Joanne 
Burns; Carl Dietze; Richard Goldsmith; 
берме Hirschinger; Mark Mascaren- 
has; Bill Smither; Jesse Weatherby; 
Don Barnett; Joni Alhelm; Gene 
McGuire; Julie Judge; Marcy Abelow; 
Jon Barovick; Gordon Young; Marion 
Lockett-Egan; Don (Jake) Jacobson; 
Joanne DeRicco, Elise Goyette. 


Don Lewis Advertising 708 
405 Riverside Drive, Burbank, Calif. 
91506 

Programs: Freedom from Fat; Think 
and Grow Rich; Mindpower; National 
Superstars, Dare to be Slim. Staff: 
Leeann Johnson; Don Lewis; Donn 
Carper; Gene Williams; David Lewis; 
Suzanne Clark: Theresa Spaiding; Rick 
Raposa; Goldie Wiliams; Michael Clark; 
Claire McCance; Sandra Bruno; Imane 
Elia; Susi Gellinck, Rachael Tullio. 
Lionheart Television 642 
1762 Westwood Blvd., #820, Los Ange- 
les 90024 


WHAT HAS 5 VTRS, 
2 ROBOTS, 
3 ROTARY LIBRARIES, 
1,184 CASSETTES, 

A COMPUTER, 
THE ABILITY TO PLAY 
15-SECOND SPOTS 
BACK TO BACK 
CONTINUOUSLY, 

IS AVAILABLE NOW 


AND IS SURE TO TURN 
IHE BROADCAST INDUSTRY 
UPSIDE DOWN? 


Lorimar Syndication 502-512 
10202 W. Washington Blvd., Culver 
Cily, 90232 


First-run series: TV Guide"; Night- 
mare on Elm Street, Freddys Night- 
таге“; Funhouse’; Mr. Moes*; СитЬу“; 
She's the Sheriff, Mamas Family; It's a 
Living; The Peoples Court; Superior 
Court; Love Connection; The Comic 
Strip; Thundercats; Silverhawks. News 
service: N.I.WS. Off-network series: 
Mamas Family; It's a Living; Alvin & the 
Chipmunks; Knots Landing; Dallas; 
Eight Is Enough; The Greatest Ameri- 
can Hero; The New Dick Van Dyke/ 
Mayberry В.ЕО.; More Real People; Му 
Favorite Martian; Here’s Lucy; The Blue 
Knight; Flamingo Road; Tenspeed and 
Brown Shoe. Features/packages: Lori- 
mar Family Classics; Mint Edition; Ultra 
4; Telepictures 3; Telepictures 2; Tele- 
pictures 1; Masters of Fury; 22 Karat; 
Lorimar |; Lorimar 1l; Sci-Fi Horror; Cow- 
boys and Indians; Bomba the Jungle 
Boy; Deja Views. Staff: Merv Adelson; 
Michael Garirf, Richard Robertson; Da- 
vid Salzman; Michael Solomon; Bar- 
bara Brogliatti; Barry Stagg; Jim McGil- 
len; Don Ross; Dalton Danon; Bruce 
Genter; Jim Moloshok; Bruce Rosen- 
blum; Keith Samples; Scott Stone; Ye- 
lena Lazovich; Leon Luxenberg; Vince 
Messina; Jeri Sacks; Alicia Windroth; 
Cynthia Stanley; Jeff Pryor, Jim Burke; 
Mary Markarian; Ed Wasserman; Andy 
Weir; Jeff Brooks; Bill Hague; Deborah 
Robin; Scott Carlin; Kar! Kuechenmeis- 
ter; Tom Byrnes; Rob Barnett; Jeannine 
Kadow; Mark O'Brien; Marc Solomon; 
Damien Riordan; Scott Weber; Eric 
Strong; Mary Voll; Jim Engleman; Mark 
Robbins; Jeff Hufford; Steve Knowles; 
Nicole Sabathie; Jacqueline Hartley; 
Casey Lanken; Chris Smith; Stuart 
Graber; Jeff Schlesinger, Margo Raport. 


MCA-TV 622-632 
445 Park Avenue, New York 10022 


Series: Murder, She Wrote*; The Mun- 
sters Today"; American  Heartline"; 
Tender Loving Саге“; Secret Identity’; 
The Street*; Out of This World; Bustin' 
Loose Year 2; The Bionic Six Home 
Shopping Club Overnight*; Charles in 
Charge Year 3. General series: Kate & 
Allie; Puttin’ on the Hits; Knight Rider; 
The A Team; Simon & Simon; Black 
Sheep Squadron; Gimme a_ Break; 
Magnum; That's Incredible; Quincy; 
Buck Rogers; Kojak; The Rockford 
Files; House Calls; BU/Lobo Show; The 
Incredible Hulk; Emergency!; Leave It 
to Beaver, The Munsters; McHale's 
Navy; The Jack Benny Show; Whiz 
Kids/Voyagers; Street Hawk/The Insid- 
ers; Baretta; Alias Smith & Jones; The 
Six Million Dollar Man; The Bionic Wom- 
an; Five Star Mystery, The Bold Ones; 
Ironside; It Takes a Thief; The Name of 
the Game; Rod Serling’s Night Gallery; 
Run for Your Life; Rich Man, Poor Man 
Book 1; Rich Man, Poor Man Book 2; 


Operation Petticoat; Harper Valley; Best 
Sellers |; Best Sellers Il; The Deputy; 
Mickey Spillanes Mike Hammer; Thrill- 
er; Men from Shiloh; Wagon Train. Fea- 
tures: Universal Pictures Debut Net- 
work; Universal Pictures Debut 
Network Il; Film Fest |; Universal's Mar- 
velous Ten; Universal Pictures Prestige 
13; Universal Pictures Exploitable 13; 
Universal's Most Wanted List; The Co- 
lumbo/McCloud/McMillan Mystery 
Movies; Banacek; The Hit List; Univer- 
sal Network Movies 85; Battlestar Ga- 
lactica; Champagne Movies 34; Ninety 
Minute Movies; Universal Grand 50; 
Universal Star Spangled 33; Universal 
World Premieres; Comedy Festival |; 
Comedy Festival 11; Universal 40; Uni- 
versal 49; Universal 52; Universal 50; 
Paramount Pre '48; Paramount 100 Se- 
lect; Universal 53; Universal 123; Uni- 
versal 260 Select List; Universal Color 
One Hundred; Universal 36 Black and 
White Elite; 77 Horror Greats; Western 
Roundup; Reserve; Diabolic Dozen; 
Dead End Kids Movies; Abbott & Cos- 
tello. Staff: Al Rush; Don Menchel; Rob- 
ert Harris; Shelly Schwab; Marc Gray- 
Son; Richard Nailling; Paul Hoffman; 
Tom Maples; Jim Kraus; David Brenner; 
Bobbi Fisher; Bill Trotter; Gary Wendt; 
Don Micallef; Mort Slakoff; Kate Kel- 
leher, Steve Hackett. 


MGM/UA TV Syndication 

MGM/UA Telecommunications 514, 
516 

1350 Avenue of the Americas, New 
York 10019 


Programs: Twilight Zone; T.H.E. Hospi- 
tal; Stop the Music; We Got It Made; 
Sea Hunt; Fame; Aquanauts; Bat Mas- 
terson; East Side, West Side; Ever- 
glades; Hey Landlord!; Hollywood and 
the Stars; Highway Patrol; | Led 3 Lives; 
Karen's Song; My Mother the Car; Outer 
Limits; Patty Duke Show; Rat Patrol; Rip- 
cord; Sea Hunt, Tombstone Territory 
Packages/features: Pik Packs; MGM/ 
UA Premiere Network-MGM/UA #3; 
MGM/UA #2; UA 1; UA 17; UA Show- 
case, 6 through 11; UA Prime Time | & 
1; Award Package; Box Office; Pre- 
miere; Festival; AAP Features; Chans 
and Wong, Monograms. Cartoons: The 
Pink Panther, Pink Panther Specials. 
Staff: Norman Horowitz; Randolph 
Blotky; Kelly Kalcheim; Dick Cignarelli; 
George Paris; Jack Smith; Paul Sumi; 
Tony Edens; Robert Corona; Phillip 
Smith; Chuck Atkins; John Rouse; Peter 
Preis; Andrew Bolt; Robert J. Horen; 
Jim Cascarano; Victoria Quoss, Stuart 
Marcus. 


MTM Television Distribution 
Group 558, 560 
12001 Venture Place, $600, Studio 
City, Calif. 91604 

Programs: Newhart; St. Elsewhere; 
Remington Steele; Rumors', Clash- 
point". Staff: Joe Indelli; Dick Woollen; 
Tom Straszewski; Jim O'Neill; Laureen 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


өл 


Е am er e 


Ong; Suzanne Horenstein; Ken Doyle, 
John Bryan. 


Muller Media, Inc. (MMI) ` 623 
23 East 39th Street, New York 10016 


Packages/features: The Great Es- 
capes*; Top Guns'; Rainbow Family’; 
The Godzilla All Stars*; Reels of For- 
tune; Super Action 10; Cinema Greats; 
Scattergood Baines, Above and Be- 
yond". Animated: Mr. Мадоо". Car- 
toons: The New Three Stooges. Spe- 
cials: Halloween—Which Witch is 
Which; Thanksgiving—The Turkey 
Caper; Christmas—The Christmas Tree 
Train, Easter—A Chucklewood Easter, 
Action | в II*. Series: The Making Of... 
Mini-Series: The Chisholms. Off-net- 
work series: Mr. & Mrs. North. Staff: 
Bob Muller; Daniel Mulholland, James 
Ricks. 


New World Television  Distribu- 
tion 545, 547 
16 W. 61st Street, New York 10023 
Programs: New World Two'; Marvel 
Universe’, What should | Do?*, Zorro’. 
Staff: Tony Brown, Joe Middelburg, Jim 
Weathers, Monte Lounsbury Tony Fa- 
sola, Sandy Lang, Frank Browne. 


Orbis Communications 553 
482 Park Ave. South, New York 10016 


Programs: Love Court, Public People, 
Private Lives. Staff: Robert Turner, John 
Ranek, Neil Russell, Hilary Hendler, Da- 
vid Spiegelman, Paul Williams, Frank 
Hussey, Brian Byrne. 


Orion Television Syndication 617,619 
1888 Century Park East, $600, Los 
Angeles 90067 


First-run series: Crimewatch Tonight". 
Off-network series: Cagney & Lacey. 
Features/packages: Orion 111; Orion 
Starview |; Orion Il; Orion |; Born Wild; 
Chrome & Hot Leather; Filmways |; 
Monsters on the Prowl; Films for the 
805; Young Adult Theatre; The Winning 
Hand; Ghoul-a-Rama; The World of the 
Macabre; Films for the 705. Mini-se- 
ries: Louisiana. Staff: J. Scott Towle; 
Larry Hutchings; Steve Mulderrig, Rob- 
ert Oswaks. 


PNC Television 634, 636 
444 Madison Avenue, New York 10022 


Programs: Lone Ranger Series; Lone 
Ranger Cartoons; Lassie Series; Timmy 
& Lassie; Jeffs Collie; Sgt. Preston of 
the Yukon, Skippy: The Bush Kangaroo. 
Features: Power Pack; Primetime One; 
Primetime 90's; Primetime Plus; Janus 
Films; Lone Ranger Features; Lassie TV 
Movies; Lassie Features, The Big 21. 
Staff: Nathaniel Kwit Jr; Harvey Rein- 
stein; Stacey Valenza; Gene Lavelle; 
Paul Franklin, Jim Wilson. 


Paramount Television 602-610 
5555 Melrose Avenue, Los Angeles 
90038 

Staff: Lucie Salhany; Steve Goldman; 
Greg Meidel; Dick Montgomery; Al 
Rothstein; Ed Wilson; Gerry Noonan; 


ANSWER: 
THE MII M.A.R.C. SYSTEM CART MACHINE. 


щ ] t аа | = " = 
= G Es, OES 
| i 4 | 1 
{ ІН | | 3 
i | 2 
7 
A 


обсвовотопоивоововянесбофинайавравенндес ` 
TUT FO LL LLL 


HU NN WIN S | 


BRRFRÉRNERRENESEERNR ` 7244469. savants 


1 
| 1 
if 1 UN У 
аза } "| ] 
d | n S 
JW Я 
а И q T ый 
ШІ! mm Быш: я 
" т ыы. N < я 
| n j | Ё 
a n tis с Е теа) 
Ж 1 , ч. 
? = q uec m | F” 
DW S 3 
"OM Ds 


ШИШ 


Дин 


dnm 


* 
NI 


Its probably the most technologically advanced cart machine ever created. 
So advanced, we doubt the competition will have anything like it for a long while 
to come. 

But the really impressive thing is: it's available now. 

SO give us a call if you'd like a demonstration, or to be put on our priority 
delivery program. 

Remember, if you're looking for high broadcast quality, overall cost reductions 
and the finest support programs in the industry, look into MIL from Panasonic. 

The broadcast system that makes business sense. 


M Panasonic 


Broadcast Systems Company 


For more information, call 1-201-348-7671. 


Helen Ricketts, Mel Harris. 


Peregrine Film Distribution Inc. 730, 
732 

9229 Sunset Blvd., 9th floor, Los Ange- 
les 90069 


Programs: Terror Zone; Alien Encoun- 
ters; Vanguard; Adventure World; The 
Spectacular World of Guinness Re- 
cords; Dynamagic; Reels of Fortune; 
Warriors; Heroes & Heroines; The 
American Diary; Rainbow Family The- 
atre; Alices Adventures in Wonderland; 
Premier Showcase, Eaglet 1. Staff: Hal 
Brown; Dennis Gresham; Lindsey Du- 
devoir, Judith Bernat; Jack Swindell; 
Amelia Colvin, Dick Block. 


Pro Wrestling This Week 713 
со WATL-TV, One Monroe Place, At- 
lanta. 30324 


Producers Marketing Group, Ltd. 726 


Republic Pictures 653 
12686 Beatrice Street, Los Angeles 
90066-0930 


Domestic distribution: First-run se- 
ries: On Trial. Packages/features: Col- 
or Imaged Specials; Hollywood Stars; 
Hollywood One; John Wayne Collec- 
tion; Popcorn Theatre; Serial Movies; 
Action Packed Features; Home of the 
Cowboys; Holiday Features; Animated 
Features; Classic Comedy, Republic 
Serials. Off-network series: Bonanza; 
Get Smart; High Chaparral; African Pa- 
trol; Animal Secrets; Blue Angels; 
Boots and Saddles; Byline: Steve Wil- 
son; Cameo Theatre; Captain Nice; 
Captured; Car 54: Where Are You?; 
Commando Cody; Continental Class- 
room; Falcon; Fibber McGee & Molly; 
Fireside Theatre; Frontier Doctor; Glen- 
cannon; Grand Jury; Great Gilders- 
leeve; How to Marry a Millionaire; Inter- 
national Playhouse; Jim Backus Show; 
Kentucky Jones; Klondike; Leredo; Lilli 
Palmer; Loretta Young Show; Man With- 
out a Gun; My World and Welcome to It; 
Not for Hire; Official Detective; Outlaws; 
Panic; People are Funny; Pony Express; 
Richard Boone Show; Sheriff of Co- 
chise; Silent Service; Steve Donavan, 
Marshal; Stories of the Century; Stryker 
of Scotland Yard; T.H.E. Cat; Temple 
Houston; The Third Man; Theatre of 
Stars; This is Alice; U.S. Marshal; Union 
Pacific; Victory at Sea, Walter Winchell 
File. Cartoons: including Betty Boop; 
Little Lulu; Puppetoons, Color Classics. 
international distribution: Mistress; 
indiscreet; Promised a Miracle; Eye on 
the Sparrow; When the Time Comes, 
Family Sins. First-run series: Seauty 
and the Beast. Off-network series: Bill 
Cosby Show; | Spy; Bonanza; Get 
Smart; High Chaparral; Press Your 
Luck; Dr. Kildare; T.H.E. Cat; Car 54, 
Where Are You?, My World & Welcome 
to 1. Packages/features: Hollywood 
Stars; Champions; Holiday Features; 
John Wayne Classic Westerns; Horror 
Features; Republic Cowboys; Roy Rog- 


ers: The Great Movie Cowboys, Sci- 
ence Fiction Features. Other Product: 
Travel Tips; Cartoons, Loving You. 
Staff: Russell Goldsmith; Chuck Lar- 
sen; Marlynda Salas; Rob McAllister; 
Dain Fritz; Lisa Woodcock, Diana 
Foster. 


Sachs Finley 734 
12801 Wilshire Blud., #611, Los Ange- 
les 90025 


Programs: Teenage Mutant Ninja Tur- 
tles. Staff: Jerry Sachs; Bill Vertin; Bar- 
bara Schwecke, Richard Sallis. 


Select Media Communications 733, 
735 
885 Third Ave., New York 10022 


Program inserts: Today in Music Histo- 
гу“; Intermission*; Quick Schtick*; Who- 
dunit?'; World Class Women’, Fashion 
in a Flash". Series: World Class Wom- 
еп. Game show: Relatively Speak- 
ing*. Staff: Mitch Gutkowski; Claire 
Scully; Andrew Eder, Vicki Jo Hoffman. 


Silverbach-Lazarus Group 625, 627 
9911 W. Pico Blud., Suite PH-M, Los 
Angeles 90035 

Domestic programs: First-run series: 
The Littlest Hobo; Faerie Tale Theatre’. 
Off-network series: Cimarron Strip. 
Mini-series: For the Term of His Natural 


Life. Specials: The Last Days of Мап-. 


lyn Monroe; The Best Christmas Pag- 
eant Ever; Terror!; Full Circle Again. Do- 
cumentaries: Hillary's Adventures’; 
Britannica Films—Phenomenal World; 
Explore. Feature package: Visual One. 
International program catalogue: Tele- 
features: A Christmas Carol; A Time to 
Triumph; Brotherhood of Justice; Chil- 
dren in the Crossfire; Child's Cry; Mrs. 
Delafield Wants to Marry; The Execu- 
tion of Raymond Graham; Doing Life; 
Full Circle Again; The Last Days of Pat- 
ton; Nobody's Child; Right of Way; Six 
Against the Rock; Special Friendship; 
Stone Pillow; Teddy; Thompson's Last 
Run. Series: Abbot and Costello; Ex- 
plore; Faerie Tale Theatre; The Littlest 
Hobo; Phenomenal World; Shelley Du- 
valls Tall Tales & Legends; Adventures 
with Edmond Hillary; Mutual of Oma- 
ha's Wild Kingdom; Mutual of Omaha's 
Spirit of Adventure. Specials: Terror; 
Best Christmas Pageant Ever; Quincy 
Jones—A Celebration in Seattle; The 
Identity Crisis; Your Money or Your Life; 
in the Name of God; Return to Iwo Jima; 
The Last Days of Marilyn Monroe; The 
Princess and the Goblin. Movie pack- 
ages: Classicolor |; Hollywood's Best. 
Children’s programing: Felix the Cat; 
Mighty Hercules; Wizard of Oz. Staff: 
Alan Silverbach; Herb Lazarus; James 
Francis; Michael Noval; Nicole Wonica; 
Toby Rogers, Amy Witt. 


Sunbow Productions Inc. 656-660 
130 5th Ave., New York 10011 


Animated programs: My Little Pony 
and Friends; Glo Friends Save Christ- 
mas; G.I. Joe; Jem; Visionaries, Trans- 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
оз 


= en SS SSS ае е | ee Á~ 


formers. Staff: Tom Griffin; Fred Cohen; 
Carole Weitzman; Eve Silverman; Anne 
Newman; Alex Kapitula; Andy Markus; 
Art Heller; Hiedi Kahme; Lisa Clasner; 
Mary Tricoli; Bridie Blessington; Nancy 
Fogert; Cathy Donoghue; Gerry Kerins, 
Glen Meyer. 


SyberVision Systems Inc. 727 
6066 Civic Terrace Ave., Newark, Ca- 
lif. 94560 


Programs: Neuropsychology of Weight 
Control; Natural Weight Loss; Your 
Right to be Lean; Neuropsychology of 
Self Discipline; Journey of Discovery, 
Neuropsychology of Staying Young. 
Staff: Bill Gonzales; Dan Danielsen; 
John Cablinha, Eric Ivory. 


Synchronal Media 709 
1515 Broadway, New York 10036 


Programs: Can You Be Thinner?; Look 
At Me Now; Love Your Skin; Beauty 
Secrets from Arlene Dahl", Science 
and Beauty’. Staff: Jerry Baldwin; Ira 
Smolev; Leslle Hartzell, Larry Dawley. 


Teietrib 555-559 
875 Third Avenue, New York 10022 


First-run series: At the Movies; Bustin' 
Loose; Charles in Charge; Cop Так"; 
Dick Clarks Golden Greats*; Entertain- 
ment Tonight/This Week; Geraldo; High 
Follers; Lifestyles of the Rich and Fam- 
ous; Monsters"; Runaway with the Rich 
and Famous; Soul Train; Star Search; 
T&T; Triple Threat". Animated: Captain 
Power, Ghostbusters; G.I. Joe; JEM; 
Marvel Universe"; Smurfs Adventures 
(off-network). — Off-network series: 
Fame, Fortune & Romance". Specials: 
At the Movies Oscar Special; Best of 
National Geographic; Dayton Interna- 
tional Airshow; The Geraldo Rivera 
Specials; GJ. Joe Movies; Heidi's 
Song; Hollywood Christmas Parade; 
Kenny & Dolly: A Christmas to Remem- 
ber, Legend of Sleepy Hollow; Little 
Troll Prince; Living the Dream: Let Free- 
dom Ring*; Mouse on the Mayflower; 
The Rich & Famous 1988 Worlds Best; 
Santa Claus !s Coming to Town; 
Scrooge; Soul Train Music Awards; Su- 
permodel of the World; Star Search to 
Stardom; Tournament of the Roses Pa- 
rade; Ultraman. Mini-series: De Lor- 
ean'; On Trial: Lee Harvey Oswald", 
Operation Prime Time; Emma: Queen 
of the South Seas"; Hoover vs. the Ken- 
nedys: The Second Civil War, Ford: The 
Man and the Machine; Hold the Dream; 
Sadat; Blood Feud; A Woman of Sub- 
stance; The Key to Rebecca, Jenny's 
War. Features/packages: American 
First Вип"; Embassy Night At the Mov- 
ies; Nadia, TV Net. Program inserts: 
Black History Notes". Staff: Philbin S. 
Flanagan; Mary Jane Hastings; Rick 
Meril; Anne Rodgers; Dick Brown; 
Gayle Dickie; John Weiser; Marc Brody; 
Clark Morehouse, Harvey Gamm. 


TeleVentures 611-615 
1925 Century Park East, #2140, Los 


LOOKING FOR WAYS 
TO WIN THEM BACK? 


TURN THE PAGE 


Angeles 90067 


Off-network series: Hunter; Sha Ма 
Na. Features/packages: TV-1. First- 
run series: Scandals. Staff: Patrick 
Kenney; William Kunkel ІМ; Douglas 
Friedman; Drew Hallmann; Ed Young- 
mark; Kathy Zeisel; Noranne Frisby; 
Maury Lanken, Jerry Leifer. 


Television Program Enterprises 555- 
559 
875 Third Ave., New York 10022 


Series: Star Search; Lifestyles of the 
Rich and Famous; Runaway with the 
Rich and Famous; Entertainment To- 
night/This Week; Dick Clarks Golden 
Greats", Triple Threat’. Off-network 
series: Fame, Fortune & Romance. 
Specials: Star Search to Stardom; The 
Rich and Famous 1988 World's Best; 
Supermodel of the World, The Dayton 
International Airshow. Mini-series: Op- 
eration Prime Time; Emma: Queen of 
the South Seas”: Hoover vs. the Kenne- 
dys: The Second Civil War; Ford: The 
Man and the Machine; Strong Medi- 
cine; Hold the Dream; Sadat; Blood 
Feud; A Woman of Substance; The Key 
to Rebecca; Jennys War. Staff: Al Ma- 
sini; Philbin S. Flanagan; Mary Jane 
Hastings, Noreen Donovan. 


Turner Program Services 549 
One CNN Center, Atlanta 30303 

Features/packages from MGM library: 
Premiere One; Premiere Two; Turner En- 
tertainment One; Premium One; Prime 
One; Color Classic Network Two; That's 
Entertainment; Vintage One; Family 
Fair; Lion One; Lion Two; Theatre 15; 
Turner Entertainment Ten; Extra-Extras; 
10 More Extra-Extras; 13 Tailor Mades; 
MGM Pre-48 Library; RKO Film Library; 
Warner Brothers Library. First-run se- 
ries: Secret World; Premiere Four; Por- 
trait of the Soviet Union; National Geo- 
graphic “On Assignment” (Years |, 111); 
Cousteau’s Rediscovery of the World 
(Years 111, ІМ V); Rocky Road; Safe At 
Home. Off-network series: Gilligan's 
Island; Medical Center, CHIPs; The 
Courtship of Eddies Father; The Man 
from U.N.C.L.E.; Please Don't Eat the 
Daisies; Daktari; Then Came Bronson. 
Children: Tom & Jerry Friends; Popeye; 
Our Gang; Warner Brothers' Cartoon 
Library; MGM Cartoon Library Staff: 
Jack Petrik; Henry Gillespie; W. Russell 
Barry; John Walden; Robert 
Schuessier; Ken Christensen; Bob Rier- 
son; David Skillman, Bob Morris. 


20th Century Fox Film Corp. 501-509 
10201 W. Pico Bivd. Trailer 747, Los 
Angeles 90035 

Programs: Nine to Five; Small Wonder; 
Mister Belvedere, A Current Affair. Fea- 
tures/packages: Century 14, Premiere 
Three. Staff: Dennis Juravic; Tony 
Bauer; Leonard Grossi; Daniel Greenb- 
latt, Joseph Greene. 


USTV 729 
11601 Wilshire Blvd., #1410, Los An- 


geles 90025 


Programs: Great Weekend"; The Fun- 
niest Joke | Ever Heard*; New Celebrity 
Bowling"; The Beach Boys' “Bring on 
the Summer" and "D.C. Beach Рапу”, 
The Professionals". Staff: Lionel 
Schaen; Kent Fredericks; Jerry Green- 
berg, Brian Pussilano. 


Vestron Television 550, 552 
60 Long Ridge Road, P.O. Box 4000, 
Stamford, Conn. 06907 


Features/packages: First Images"; 
Empire of Terror; Lovely & Deadly, He- 
roes, Pirates & Warriors. Special: The 
Beach Boys: An American Band. Staff: 
David Armstrong; Lisa Gaiser; Bruce 
Casino, Tim Lavender. 


Viacom Enterprises 537-541 
1211 Avenue of the Americas, New 
York 10036 


First-run series: Double Dare*; Busi- 
ness This Morning’; Dempsey & Make- 
peace; Hawaii Five-O; Bizarre; Split 
Second, The New Honeymooners. ОН- 
network series: The Cosby Show; Ha- 
waii Five-O; | Love Lucy; All in the Fam- 
ily; The Andy Griffith Show; The Bob 
Newhart Show; The Beverly Hillbillies; 
Cannon; Clint Eastwood in Rawhide; 
Rawhide; December Bride; The Dick 
Van Dyke Show; Family Affair; Gomer 
Pyle; Gunsmoke; Have Gun Will Travel; 
Honeymooners, Hogans Heroes; Тһе 
Life and Times of Grizzly Adams; Mar- 
shall Dillon; The Mary Tyler Moore 
Show; My Three Sons; Our Miss 
Brooks; Perry Mason; Petticoat Junc- 
tion; Rookies; Twentieth Century; The 
Twilight Zone; Whirlybirds, The Wild, 
Wild West. Animated: Terrytoons; Har- 
lem Globetrotters; The Alvin Show. Fea- 
tures/packages: Viacom Features | 
through ХІІ; Viacom Movie Greats; Ex- 
ploitables |, Ill, IV; Viacom Movie 
Greats; The Legend Group; Young and 
Reckless; Gasp Science Fiction; Gasp 
Horror; Thematics, TV Net (Tonight 
Only). Staff: Henry Schleiff; Arthur Kan- 
anack; Joseph Zaleski; Paul Kalvin; 
Dennis Gillespie; Elissa Lebeck; Toby 
Martin; Andrew Spitzer; Scott Kolber; 
Lisa Merians; Gloria Rella; Brooks Car- 
roll; Dennis Emerson; Frank Flanagan, 
David Campbell. 


Video Media Marketing 724 
530 West 23d St., New York 10011 


Features/packages: Knockout; Hotel 
Colonial; Ordinary Heroes; Tuareg, the 
Desert Warrior; Shadowlands; Survivor; 
Network Showcase; Cinemagic. Chil- 
dren: Elm-chanted Forest. Staff: Brian 
O'Daly; Larry Casey, Bonnie Williams. 


Warner Brothers TV Distribution 657, 
659 

4000 Warner Blvd., Burbank, Calif. 
91522 

Domestic: Cartoons: Bugs Bunny & 
Frlends; Porky Pig & Friends. Features/ 
packages: Volume 27; TV4; Volume 
26; TV3; Volume 25; TV2; Volume 24; 13 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
Як 


pr— Ee "Ж. << шшшыраынажс<< == 


Classic Thrillers Il; TV1; Volume 23; Vol- 
ume 22; Volume 21; The FBI Story; Vol- 
ume 20; Volume 19; Volume 18; Volume 
17; Volume 16; Volume 14-15; Volume 
13; Volume 2-A; Volume 1-A; 13 Classic 
Thrillers; Tarzan Features; The Bowery 
Boys; Starlite 6; Starlite 5; Starlite 4; 
Starlite 3, Special Features. Mini-se- 
ries: Hollywood Wives; V, Bare Es- 
sence; The Thorn Birds; Pearl; Scru- 
ples; Roots, Roots: The Next 
Generation. Off-network series: 
Head of the Class'; Growing Pains; 
Night Court; Scarecrow and Mrs. King"; 
Matt Houston; Private Benjamin; The 
Dukes of Hazzard; Alice; Welcome 
Back, Kotter, Chico and the Man; F 
Troop; Superman; Batman/Superman/ 
Aquaman; Harry O; Wonder Woman; 
Kung Fu; The Waltons; The FBI; Tarzan, 
Maverick. Specials: The Phenomenon 
of Roots; David L. Wolper Specials of 
the Seventies. Staff: Charles McGre- 
gor; Mauro Sardi; William Hart; Ed Don- 
aldson; Bill Seiler; John Louis; John 
Laing; Gary Cozen; Paul Simon; Ken 
Fournier; John’ Chickering; Dee Eul- 
berg; Dan McRae; Sharon Kneller; Elea- 
nor Liebs; Erwin Markisch; Joe Kivle- 
han; Louis Marino, Bruce Hoffman. 


The Wrestling Network 707 
LB 14-5001 Spring Valley Rd., Dallas, 
Tex. 75244-3910 


World Events Productions, Ltd. 535 
4935 Lindell Blvd., St. Louis 63108 


Programs: Denver, The Last Dino- 
баш”; The Pet Vet"; Wtor, The Starfire 
Champion’, Bogus’; Voltron: Defender 
of the Universe; Voltron: Defender of the 
Universe—Fleet of Doom; Saber Rider 
and the Star Sheriffs, Shorts. Staff: Ed- 
ward Koplar; Brian Lacey; Peter Keefe; 
William T. Crowell; Susan C. Bae, Susan 
Kalishman. 


World Wrestling Federation 538, 540 
1055 Summer St, Stamford, Conn. 
06905 


Staff: Joe Perkins; Basil DeVito, Mi- 
chael Ortman. 


Worldvision Enterprises, Inc. 727 
660 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 
10021 

Programs: Trivial Pursuit; Hanna-Bar- 
beras Superstars 10; Throb; Starring 
the Actors; Shark's Paradise, Return to 
Eden. Animated series: Yogi Bear; 
Snorks; The Funtastic World of Hanna 
Barbera; Rambo; Chuck Norris Karate 
Kommandos, The Jetsons. Animated 
special: Yogis First Christmas. Off-net- 
work shows: The Love Boat |І; The 
Love Boat; Little House on the Prairie; 
Barnaby Jones; That Girl; Douglas Fair- 
banks Presents; Dark Shadows; The 
Doris Day Show; N.YP.D.; Ben Casey; 
Combat; The Fugitive; The Rebel; Wen- 
dy and Me; Peoples Choice; The Invad- 
ers; One Step Beyond; Flying A Series, 
Man From Atlantis. Features/pack- 
ages: Prime | through VIII, Saturday at 
the Movies. 


S KNOXVILLE Ф 
ы wan Ў 


NA 
| | Vu 
Іп markets across America- 


“Carol Burnett 
"' and Friends" 
..* dazzles the 

. competition. 


175 Brilliant, star- | 

filled half hours that ~- 
radiate ratings day or 

night. And with 25 all-new 
episodes, the sky's the limit! 


For information: JOANNE LEIGHTON окесог of SN 
and FRIENDS 
С.В. Distribution Company • 141 El Camino Drive, Beverly Hills, California 90212 ». р 
(213) 275-6114 =, 


When it comes to first run 


November: once again, 
Small Wonder improves 
over ordinary first runs. 


NEW YORK/WNYW 
BOSTON/WCVB* 
DETROIT/WJBK* 
ATLANTA/WAGA 
SEATTLE/KSTW* 
PORTLAND, OR/KPDX* 
ORLANDO/WMOD 
CHARLOTTE/WCCB* 
GREENVILLE, SC/WHN: 
HARRISBURG/WHTM* 
RICHMOND/WVRN 
FLINT/WSMH* 
TOLEDO/WTVG* 
CHAMPAIGN/WHRSP 
DAVENPORT/KLJB 
PORTLAND, ME/WPXT* 
CHARLESTON, SC/WCS 
PEORIA/WYZZ 
FLORENCE/WPDE 
GAINESVILLE/WOGX 


For over two years, Small Wonder has 
dramatically boosted audiences leading 
out of other first run shows. 8 ZON 
Phone Fox now to putthe | [mmaa 
Wonder worker in your Е 
schedule. 


SOURCE: NSI/CASSANDRA (*ARB/SQAD-APOLLO) 11/87, SUBJECT TO THE LIMITATIONS OF TH 


A S 


Available to strip Fall '89 


lon't settle for second best. 


% IMPROVEMENT 


DAY/TIME LEAD-IN HH SH W 25-54 SH 
A 6:30 РМ What's Happ. Now! +6% +9% 
A 7:30 РМ Out of This World +23% +30% 
A 730 РМ We Got It Made +60% +60% 
A 7:30 РМ Out of This World +6% +43% 
A 10:00 AM Captain Power +75% +47% 
A 4:00PM Bustin’ Loose +50% +20% 
A 6:30 РМ Charles in Charge +100% +48% 
A 6:30PM Bustin Loose +8% +24% 
U 6:30PM Out of This World +20% +7% 
U 5:30PM New Gidget +14% +80% 
A 5:00 РМ New Amer. Bandstand +167% +362% 
U 6:30 РМ Charles in Charge +30% +50% 
A 7:30PM Dom DeLuise Show +44% +246% 
A 4:30 РМ Throb +33% +24% 
A 6:30 РМ Webster +33% +48% 
A 500 РМ New Gidget +250% +200% 
А 10:00 AM Out of This World +88% +110% 
J 5:00 РМ Charles in Charge +40% +82% 
J 3:30 РМ Its a Living +43% +62% 
J 7:30PM Out of This World +25% --220% 


Copiau © 1987 Twenneth Century Foa Еїт\ Lorporanon. АЙ піз reserved 


HOW AFFILIATES FEEL ABOUT THE FOX NETWORK 


No problems that programing can't cure 


FBC Sunday night lineup is strong, 
competitive with big three networks; 
Saturday and other nights do not 
fare so well, tempting affiliates 

to preempt weak programing 


Talk to a Fox Broadcasting Co. affiliate and 
you can easily determine what is best and 
worst about the network's performance to 
date, The answer 1s the same: programing. 

That's the consensus that emerges from a 
nationwide canvass by BROADCASTING of 
Fox affiliates—40 of the 100-plus stations 
that have cast their lots with Rupert Mur- 
doch, Barry Diller and their network 

The performance of FBC affiliate 
WBFF(TV) Baltimore in FBC-programed day- 
parts (Saturday and Sunday prime time, and 
the late-night Wilton North Report) reflects 
what many other affiliates have exper- 
ienced. It also reflects the dilemma in which 
FBC and its affiliates find themselves: When 
the programing attracts significant viewer- 
ship, both prosper, but when it does not, the 
fragile financial structure of independents 
puts pressure on the stations to consider 
preemption. 

"Sunday night is by far the best," said 
David Smith, wBFF vice president. Like 
many of the FBC affiliates, wBFF had been 
running religious programing on Sunday 
nights before Fox. Historically, said Smith, 
the religious fare registered hash marks in 
the ratings books. Now on Sunday nights, 
the ЕВС schedule—2i Jump Street, 
Werewolf, Married...With Children, The 
Tracy Ullman Show and Duet—is competi- 
tive with programing on the three major 
broadcast networks. 

In the key women demographics, said 
Smith, Jump Street beats both NBC's Our 
House and ABC's The Disney Hour. With a 
12 rating for women 18-24 and a 10 rating 
for women 18-49, the program is a close 
second to CBS's 60 Minutes, which aver- 
ages a 14 and an 11 in the same two demos. 
The programs that follow are competitive as 
well, said Smith. They are competitive to 
the degree that agency buyers credit a Fox 
buy on Sunday nights as a "network prime" 
purchase, and not a discount buy, which is 
the best many independents can achieve in 
prime time. 

That's the good news. The bad news is 
that FBC also programs Saturday nights 
(currently with Mr. President, Women in 
Prison, Beans Baxter and Second Chance) 
and a week-nightly late-night program, the 
satirical Wilton North Report. The number- 
one complaint of most of the affiliates con- 
tacted for this report is the failure of the 
programing in those dayparts. 

It is not that the stations do not understand 
that FBC needs their support in all dayparts, 


(AN 


if the network is to succeed. But as Kate 
McSweeny, program director at WOFL(TV) 
Orlando, Fla., put it last week, "it's a bot- 
tom-line business." And independent sta- 
tions cannot afford to give away three 
fourths of their inventory in a daypart, in 
exchange for programing that is delivering 
no greater audience, or less audience, than 
the stations were getting with their own 
locally produced or syndicated programs. 

By FBC's own count, said one source, 
about eight stations "are on the fence" or 
deciding whether or not to preempt various 
or all parts of the FBC schedule. WOFL is 
believed to be the first station to actually 
preempt the Saturday lineup, effective Dec. 
26. According to McSweeny, the FBC line- 
up on Saturday was delivering l's in the 
ratings, whereas movies the station used to 
program garnered ratings as high as an 8 
rating. The station has gone back to movies, 
but McSweeny said management will 
reevaluate the decision on an ongoing basis. 
"Everything depends on program perfor- 
mance,” she said. 

At least three other stations have plans to 
preempt the Saturday linuep in January, in- 
cluding the Chris-Craft-owned affiliates in 
Portland, Ore., and Minneapolis. Those two 
stations, if they defect, would be major 
blows, as they are two of only six FBC VHF 
affiliates in the top-50 not owned by Fox. 
Station management said last week, howev- 
er, it agreed to hear Fox out at this week's 
meeting before making any moves. 

Martin Brantley, general manager, 
KPTV(TV) Portland, Ore, , said his intent is to 
have a “long term” relationship with FBC. 
But, he stressed, “we have to realistically 
analyze the situation as we go along. Right 
now, it’s all on hold.” 

in addition, Alan Barrows, general man- 
ager of WDSI-Tv, FBC's Chattanooga affili- 
ate, confirmed his intention to preempt 
Fox's Saturday slate, effective Jan. 11. But 
he also said he will listen to FBC's pitch at a 
meeting and is prepared to rescind the pre- 
emption if he comes away convinced FBC 
will turn around the night. 

Despite WBFF's success on Sunday night, 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


Smith indicates the station cannot continue 
for a long time to carry the low-rated FBC 
Schedule on Saturday nights. Smith call: 
himself an FBC booster, but he, like the res 
of the Fox affiliate body, has to face tht 
realities of the independent television busi- 
ness. "It boils down to a very basic argu- 
ment that at some point every independen 
station is going to have to address," he said. 

FBC has demonstrated by its Sunday 
night performance, said Smith, “that the 
industry can support a fourth network. Bu 
independents cannot afford to take a hit ir 
terms of the loss of inventory, and ultimately 
revenues,” in the dayparts where FBC is 
performing badly. “If ratings can’t be boost. 
ed with better programing, then it [the net. 
work] clearly becomes a pretty moot point.” 
It is hard enough for independents to sur. 
vive, said Smith, "without swapping a 2 
rating for a 2 rating and giving up the bulk oi 
the inventory.” At this point, he added, "it^ 
not a two-way street" on Saturday nights oi 
late nights with FBC programs. 

Fox is the first to admit that Saturday 
nights need work, and a lot of it. The 
network’s program executives will unvei 
plans for turning around the night at thi: 
week's affiliate meeting. Those plans in- 
clude the addition of a new hour adventure 
program from MGM/UA, The Dirty Dozen. 
based on the series of popular made-for 
television movies that company ha: 
produced. 

But as for late night, an FBC spokesmar 
said last week it is "firmly committed" to the 
Wilton North Report, produced by forme: 
David Letterman executive producer Barry 
Sand. The program has been plagued with 
problems from the start. On the very day о: 
its planned premiere date, Nov. 30, FBC 
was forced to delay the show two week: 
because it wasn't ready. The move angerec 
stations, which had been promoting the de- 
but for weeks, and caused one station, WDSI 
TV, to preempt the program indefinitely. Fo: 
most stations, the program is getting les: 
than a 1 rating, cornpared to the 2 rating о! 
better that The Late Show, first with Joar 
Rivers, and then with guest hosts after he: 
departure, was averaging. 

Even the Fox Station Group is delayin; 
the program, by a half hour, because tht 
stations can make more money with popula 
syndicated programs such as Taxi and Thu 
Jeffersons, which they run at 11 p.m. 

And in the Midwest, where late night i: 
an hour earlier, there is even more at stake 
because HUT levels, and therefore revenut 
potential, are greater. FBC affiliates in Бой 
St. Louis and Austin, Tex., are preempting 
North for just that reason. Executives a 
other stations, who preferred not to bs 
quoted, said they were also considering pre 


PRODUCTIONS 
Presents 


Starring 
LARRY WILCOX 


115 East 57th Street 


TIKO and TIKO PRIDE OF THE ROCKIES = ” New York, NY 10022 
are trade marks of ITC Productions, Inc Tet: (21 2) 371-6660 


pallas/ 
Ft. Wort 


Houston 


Minneapolis / 
st. Paul 


st. Louis 
indianapolis 


orlando / 
paytona Beach 


Milwaukee 
Tucson 

Las Vegas 
and many mores 


For More Information 


Contact Jim Stem 212-371-6660 
^ |TC Entertainment Inc.. 1987 


empting North because of the poor ratings 
and the sense that the program will probably 
not improve 

“We are not running Wilton North, con- 
firmed William L. Viands Jr., vice president 
and general manager of FBC aífiliate KDNL- 
TV St. Louis. The Late Show, which preced- 
ed North as the FBC late-night entry, said 
Viands, “just performed so poorly it became 
unsaleable. We asked to delay [North] and 
they asked us not to run it at all." Instead, 
the station is running off-network reruns of 
Sanford & Son and the original Leave It to 
Beaver, which average about a 10 share, 
compared to a 1 or 2 for The Late Show. 

But Viands and other station managers 
who are considering program preemptions 
say they are big supporters of FBC. He says 
his station has a share about 10 times greater 
on Sunday nights compared to a year ago, 
while Saturday is up slightly. As for late 
night, the decision to preempt was a busi- 
ness decision, he said, and will be re-evalu- 
ated after the FBC affiliate meeting. 

Other stations, such as wOIO(TV) Cleve- 
land, are not happy with the show. Richard 
Sullivan, the sfation’s general manager, said 
he doesn't believe the program will succeed 
and would like FBC to try something else in 
the time period. "It's been a major, major 
problem for us," he said. "But we like to 
think of ourselves as a good Fox affiliate and 
we'll reserve judgment until after the affili- 
ate meeting." 

Most affiliates, however, say it is too 
early to judge Wilton North. A few even 
praise Fox for its "daring and innovative- 
ness," as did Stuart Powell, general man- 
ager, KNXV.TV Phoenix. "You sort of sit 
there with your mouth agape wondering 
what the hell you're watching," he said of 
the program. But, in his view at least, that is 
better than FBC's first effort in late night 
with Joan Rivers. “That is the safest show 
you can do in late night and there is no way 
you're going to knock off Johnny Carson. 
Wilton North is daring and unusual. They 
may have to replace the entire staff to make 
it work, but at least they're heading in the 
right direction." 

Despite the handful of stations that are 
feeling pressure to preempt FBC program- 
ing, many more say they will stand pat for 
now. There is no question that most of the 
stations are rooting hard for Fox to work its 
Sunday night magic in its other time per- 
iods. That is because on Sunday nights, the 
affiliates say, FBC has created an identity for 
them in their markets they never had be- 
fore—that of network affiliate. 

Said Martin Colby, general manager, 
ХЕТУ(Ту) San Diego: “Fox has lifted us out 
of the pack [of competing independents] and 
Biven us an image which means a lot in 
terms of tangential dollars." And viewers, 
he said, "position Fox affiliates together 
with ABC, NBC and CBS affiliates." Added 
Michael Liff, vice president and general 
manager, WPGH-TV Pittsburgh: "They have 
given us legitimacy on Sunday night. It was 
throw-away night." 

James Boaz, general manager of WTAF-TV 
Philadelphia, adds that the FBC programing 
rounds out the station's selling pitch. "Tt has 
created an additional selling position fou 
us," he said. “It has given us the dimension 


of a full-service selling concept, complete 
with news, sports, and now network 
programing.” 

As for those that are preempting, Colby 
said, "I feel badly. The problem is every- 
body gets trigger happy. Everybody forgets 
that five years ago NBC was the dismal last 
place network. The investment in Fox is a 
long term investment.” 

Besides some poor programing, affiliates 
suggest that Fox may have hurt its own 
cause on Saturday nights by changing the 
schedule around too quickly when things 
didn’t appear to be working. Affiliates cited 
programs such as Mr. President and Duet 
which FBC has moved five or six times 
each. “There have been no less than half a 
dozen major changes in the last six weeks,” 
said ТА of WPGH. "We have told them not to 
be so reactive. ..let it grow.” 

In many instances, including the sudden 
delay of the debut of Wilton North last 
month, stations were told of changes only at 
the last moment, thereby wasting hours of 
effort, as well as on-air promotion time. 


dium: 


And the promotional effort at first seemed 
more geared to network affiliates than inde- 
pendent stations. One example: FBC has a 
program to award free radio ad time as part 
of a co-op plan for underperforming sta- 
tions. At first, FBC bought the radio time 
nationally, said Roger Ottenbach, general 
manager, KCPQ(TV) Seattle. As a result, it 
missed some of the best local radio buys 
available. Ottenbach said FBC's promotion 
effort has improved in recent months. 

Another executive, who asked not to be 
named, said the early promotion effort 
seemed preoccupied with press and public- 
ity to the detriment of on-air promotion. 
"They seemed to be doing everything else 
but good on-air announcements and print 
ads," he complained. However, in recent 
months, that effort has also changed for the 
better, that same executive said. 

"The failures that Fox has had are no 
more than any other network has had," said 
Viands of KDNL-Tv. "There is no manual on 
how to start a network. It is all trial and 
error.” B 


StarCast aiming for indies 


New Orlando-based company, headed by 
Walter Windsor and John Tyler, will 
offer stations satellite feeds of 
‘vintage’ TV shows for 18 hours a day 


Visions of a new programing network for 
independent stations are dancing in the 
heads of veteran broadcaster Walter Wind- 
sor, Satellite Music Network's John Tyler 
and several other backers, who have banded 
together to establish StarCast, based in Or- 
lando, Fla. At this stage the network is still a 
concept, which in one configuration could 
amount to a turnkey operation for indepen- 
dent television stations, much like SMN's 
turnkey formats for radio stations. 

The basic StarCast concept is a satellite 
feed of 18 hours of "vintage" programing a 
day to its affiliates, which the company is 
busy culling from independent stations. The 
stations could carry as little or as much of 
the programing as they chose, but would be 
required to run two minutes of Starcast com- 
mercial spots per hour of programing sup- 
plied (36 minutes a day) whether or not all 
the programing is aired. Stations would also 
pay a monthly affiliate fee, based largely on 
market size and how long they have been on 
the air. 

The programing would consist mostly of 
old syndicated programing that has either 
been shelved or is running in only a handful 
of markets. Examples, according to a pro- 
motional tape the network has mailed to 
independent prospects, include: My Three 
Sons, December Bride, Marshall Dillon, 
Dennis the Menace, Fireside Theater, The 
Gale Storm Show, Flip Wilson, Girl from 
U.N.C.L.E., Dobbie Gillis, Our Miss 
Brooks and Rifleman. Vintage game shows 
may also be included such as What's My 
Line and To Teil the Truth, as well as sports 
highlights packages. 

The network will also supply news, 
sports, weather and business briefs that sta- 
tions may use in local commercial pods (five 
two-minute pods per hour) if they have not 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
aa 


sold the time. StarCast also says it may later 
produce original programing, such as talk 
and game shows. 

StarCast is still assembling its proposed 
program schedule, which Windsor, the net- 
work’s president, says should be complete 
by February. At that point, he said, the 
network will solicit firm commitments from 
stations that have expressed interest in the 
proposal. The launch of the new network is 
scheduled for spring. (StarCast will have a 
hospitality suite at the Beverly Hilton hotel 
for this week’s Association of Independent 
Television Stations convention.) 

The network’s basic pitch to independents 
is savings on program costs. Windsor ac- 
knowledges that the network's research indi- 
cates much of the programing it will offer 
“тау not be winners against the competition 
in your market." But he added, much of it 
"wil produce an adequate audience at a 
fraction of the present costs" of current 
movies and series in syndication. Windsor 
cited a statistic provided by the National 
Association of Broadcasters that in 1986 
UHF stations spent an average of 45.2% of 
their operating budgets on programing. In 
the same year, he said, UHF stations on 
average had a loss of more than $104,000. 
Reduce those program costs, he said, and 
many stations could have a "positive cash 

ow.” 


Windsor said the network planned to pro- 
vide promotional and advertising support, 
including cross-promotional opportunities 
with the 900 SMN radio affiliates across the 
country. Coopers & Lybrand, the accounting 
firm, will produce an annual financial analy- 
sis of the network that will be available to all 
affiliates. 

Windsor, a 33-year broadcasting veteran, 
including 16 years as general manger of 
WFTV(TV) Orlando, said that more than 30 
stations have so far sent "letters of interest" 
to StarCast. However, he declined to pro- 
vide a complete list. Of the four stations he 
identified, only one station manager, 


HE DOESN'T 
TOY AROUND 


РОРЕҮЕ%5 STILL АТОР 
THESE TOY-PRODUCT 
BASED PROGRAMS* 


NOV 1986—JULY 1987 


PROFETE 
HeMan 
Silvernawks 
Thundercats 
Voltron 


-Ь 00 N 00 00 


“Source: М513.0.8.Р. Nov. 86-)шу "87 


DON'T TOY AROUND! 
INVEST IN THE 
TOUGH COMPETITOR! 


^ SUBSIDIARY OF THE HEARST CORPORATION 


235 East 45th St., New York, N.Y. 10017 Phone: (212) 682-5600 TWX: 7105812391 
London Phone: (01) 408-1229 Telex: 266570 Los Angeles Phone: (818) 889-2047 
© 1988 King Features Syndicate, Inc. Worldwide Rights Reserved. 


WKFT(TV)'S Dick Armfield, could be reached 
at deadline. Armfield confirmed the sta- 
tion's interest, but said that no decision 
could be made on StarCast until the final 
Schedule is completed. The station uses 
some contemporary syndicated programing, 
he said, noting recent purchases of Kate & 
Allie and Simon & Simon. 

Armfield said that essentially, StarCast 
was taking “just the opposite approach that 
Fox [Broadcasting Co.] has taken. Fox is 


starting with a few very high quality pro- 
grams and expanding from there. StarCast is 
starting with a fuller day and wants to im- 
prove the programing as it goes along,” he 
said. 

Armfield estimated that even if the station 
did commit to StarCast, current program 
commitments would limit the airing to “less 
than half’ the 18 hours daily the proposed 
network says it will offer. 

Assessing the proposed network’s poten- 


tial, Armfield said: “We see StarCast as a 
possible alternative source of programing 
you don’t have to mortage and arm and a leg 
for.” 

SMN’s Tyler is credited with coming uf 
with the StarCast concept. Principals in the 
venture, along with Tyler and Windsor, in- 
clude Cathy Bamberg and Harry Handiey. 
who own and operate Bamberg-Handley 
Inc., an Orlando-based broadcast researct 
and consulting firm. = 


ESPN scores with NFL football 


Games improve penetration, 
local ad sales; participating 
broadcasters seem pleased 


ESPN wrapped up its eight-game regular- 
season NFL package last week, and by all 
indications cable's first taste of professional 
football was a success. The Dec. 27 San 
Fransisco-Los Angeles Rams game scored 
an estimated 12.0 rating for the combined 
broadcast-cable reach. and a 10 rating and 
16 share for ESPN only. 

That gave ESPN an eight-game, regular- 
season combined average of 12.4 (and a 
10.6 cable-only rating), nearly three points 
higher than the 9.5 it guaranteed advertisers. 
(Its preseason numbers were a combined 9.4 
rating on a 5 guarantee.) 

ESPN President Bill Grimes said the net- 
work "made a little profit" on the football 
package, but "more importantly, the best 


news is that the cable operators found that 
the NFL really did provide them a forum to 
sell a lot of advertising." 

In addition to over-delivering on the rat- 
ings, Grimes said ESPN also over-delivered 
on circulation. ESPN guaranteed advertisers 
a circulation of 90% of the services 40 
million homes. Grimes said the final circu- 
lation figure was 98%, giving ESPN an 
overdelivery “on more than just the 
ratings." 

The package also served to increase cable 
penetration. Grimes said that in November, 
ESPN added 490,000 subscribers, but only 
40% to 50%, ESPN estimates, came from 
new builds. Grimes said the 490,000 figure 
was the highest monthly total for the year 
“by a lot." Overall, ESPN added 2.8 million 
subscribers in 1987, so 2596 of that total 
came in the first month of ESPN’s regular- 
season NFL games. “We think that's kind of 


Send us 


your 


best. 


Be recognized for the work you do. Enter the 1988 RTNDA 
national news awards competition. 
Compete for regional awards in five categories: 
* Overall excellence 
е Continuing coverage 
е Spot news 


е Investigative reporting 
e News series/documentary Ne 


" e ate gor \ 


Regional winners advance to compete for national RTNDA 
Edward R. Murrow awards. Open to all radio and television 
stations. Deadline: February 1, 1988. To find out more, contact: 


Radio-Television News Directors Association 
1717 K St. NW е Suite 615 е Washington, D.C. 20006 
(202) 659-6510 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
QR 


a nice cap on the NFL," said Grimes. 

The local broadcasters and cable opera- 
tors involved in selling advertising time alsc 
seemed pleased with how things turned out. 
One notable cable advertising success story 
was TeleCable, which brought in $1 millior 
in local advertising in a package that hac 
ESPN football as the centerpiece. The MSC 
sold six-month sponsorships for betweer 
$30,000 to $40,000 to advertisers, who alsc 
received positions near college football 
games and on some basic networks. In the 
NFL games, TeleCable sold 30-second spots 
for $300, 10 times the company's normal 
30-second rate. Jerry Machovina, corporate 
director of ad sales at TeleCable, said of the 
package: “We exceeded our costs and ther 
some." 

Broadcasters that purchased local broad- 
cast rights for games involving their home- 
town teams also were pleased with the re- 
suits of the season. Steve Cook, local sale: 
manager at WUSA-TV Washington, said it: 
one ESPN game "was a big success for us.' 
The station sold out quickly its 26-spot in- 
ventory, double the number of spots it woulc 
normally get in that time period. And since 
it was in prime time, the ad prices were solc 
at a premium. Although he did not quantify 
it, Cook said, *we made money" on the 
Washington-Miami contest, which scored 2 
42.4 rating/61 share for the station. 

Donna Zapata, general manager ai 
KTTV(TV) Los Angeles, said the station alsc 
covered costs for the ESPN games. "We're 
smiling," she said. KTTV scored a 12.1/22 
for the Rams-49'ers game, which was num- 
ber one in its time period except for 66 
Minutes. lt scored a 10.9/18 for the Raiders- 
Chargers game earlier in the year. 

ESPN got part of the NFL action еагіет 
this year when it signed a three-year, $153- 
million deal with the NFL to carry 13 
games, four pre-season, eight in the regular 
season and the Pro Bowl. ESPN paid $4€ 
million in year one and will pay $51 millior 
and $56 million in years two and three. 

The network reportedly sold its 36, 30- 
second spots for roughly $50,000 each. 
ESPN also received revenue from the 9.25 
cents per subscriber per month that cable 
operators paid, on average, and the money 
collected from selling ancillary rights tc 
local broadcasters. 

“The only concern I had [about the pack- 
age] was whether there would be a Sunday- 
night burn-out,” said Grimes. "We worried 
about that a little bit but for this year il 
certainly proved to be unfounded.” 


The Little Rascals 
never looked so good. 


\ қ | 4! 


- “.) uara è 
~ IN mh + 
, ^ “Учи 5 


- i 


Thanks to new master prints, "The Little Rascals" look and sound better than ever! 
71 episodes available—Already sold in 58 markets. 


Verte Bases 


DISTRIBUTED BY 


EVERYBODY AND THEIR MOTHER WATCHES: 
POWERHOUSE ааа 
BEAT EVERY OTHER SITCOM. 


„pinhas 


= Three ; Company is the n. sitcom ai ranked in 
Cassandra Top 10 in every demographic category... in every 
sweep over the last year" 
You get total scheduling flexibility. Three's Company is a 
dynamite performer in every daypart ... — 
Or even twice a day! ! 
And it renews its audience every year 
as new young viewers discover its extra- 


"THREE'S COMPANY” 


D.L. TAFFNER 


Syndication Sales 


New York (212) 245-4680 Chicago (312) 915-0246 
Los Angeles (213) 937-H44 — Atlanta (404) 393-2401 


Other sitcom strips are winding down as their audiences 

grow older season after season. 
But Three's Company's audience is still growing—constantly 

renewing itself as a whole new generation of Kids and Teens 

discovers this hip, contemporary comedy. 

Audience shares are up again 2.1 across the nation" 


A. UP 17% on WNYW New York, M-F at 6 PM. 
A UP 18% on КТТУ Los Angeles, M-F at 6 PM. 
| ; UP 6% оп WFLD Chicago, M-F at 530 РМ. 
UP 10% on KRIV Houston, M-F at 6 PM. 
= WH UP 10% on WTTG Washington, M-F at 6 PM. 
Б AS UP 10% on KSTW Seattle, M-F at 630 PM. 
| UP 125% on WTTV Indianapolis, M-F at 7 РМ. 
UP 17% on KRBK Sacramento, M-F at 6 PM. 
UP 8% on WXIX Cincinnati, M-F at 6 PM. 
UP 76% on WHBQ Memphis, M-F at 10:30 PM. 


а 


| j е 
bi" Tops its own time period performance! | 


© 1988 D.L. Taffner Syndication Sales. All rights reserved 


b “NSI, CASSANDRA RANKING REPORT, 
E NOV 86, FEB 87, MAY 87, JULY 87 


cem 


TELETRIB 


AMERICA'S PREMIER SYNDICATOR 


SPECIALS 


THE. 
— MCWIFS —.. NATIONAL ме 
Ё. mews = 22 GEOGRAPHIC 
Oscar Special Ранар | 


Те | 
| Geraldo 
E | 
| Specials 


zk: 7 rur 


А 2 
TRE MOVIE 


"T 


H 
cS Pg 


OF THE LEGENO OF Ty 
SLEEPY 
HOLLOW 


119093 91 
IRAE NER 


NADIA 


үчү, 


Уа - 
e 1 ж 


1 
Ot 


JUL 
TAN 


f (5 (ee hou 205 


Lm HUS 
il ре 3 
1988 
Warts Bol 


: N 
\ fo 
49% 


BUSTIN Loost 


ү 
UNIVERSE 


TELETRIB, a joint venture of Television Program 
Enterprises and Tribune Entertainment Company, 
syndicates a full spectrum of series and specials 
covering all day parts and demographics. 


875 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10022 
212-750-9190 


New York, Chicago, Los Angeles 


Ho-ho-hummm... NBC wins Christmas week 


Nielsen о ке a Show а) АСВ Nielsen с 
1 23.5/39 С 60 Minutes 2 22.1/36 39! 11.7/22 
2. 19.6/31 C Garfield Christmas 11 17.5/27 36. 11.5/25 
Зе 19.4/32 A Growing Pains 1 22.6/35 37 11.5/19 
4. 19.4/30 № NBC Monday Movie 3. 21.8/32 38. 11.4/19 
О. 18.6/29 C Claymation Christmas 13. 17.3/25 39. 11.3/21 
6. 18.4/30 C Murder, She Wrote 6. 19.2/29 40. 11.1418 
n 17.9/34 N Golden Girls 5i 20.7/36 41 10.6/20 
8. 17.5/30 A Who's the Boss? 4. 21.4/34 42. 10.5/22 
9. 17.4/31 A Monday Night Football 16. 16.6/29 43. 10.3/22 

10. 17.1/29 М Matlock 9. 17.7/28 44. 10.1/25 
11. 16.6/27 М Christmas in Washington 15. 16.7/27 45. 9.9/19 
12. 15.8/24 C Newhart 17. 16.5/24 46. 9.8/25 
13. 15.7/30 М Amen Гб 18.2/32 47. 9.5/20 
14. 15.6/27 A Moonlighting 8. 18.1/29 48 9.5/16 
15. 15.5/32 N J.J. Starbuck 29! 15.2/29 49. 9.2/15 
16. 15.4/27 М NBC Sunday Movie 25: 15.0/25 50. 9.8/17 
Vite 15.3/26 C CBS Sunday Movie 22: 15.2/24 ӨЛЕ 8.9/15 
18. 15.0/38 М Cosby Show 1125 17.4/39 52. 8.5/16 
19. 15.0/24 М Family Ties 10. 17.6/27 53 8.4/21 
20. 14.6/26 N NBC Wed. Movie Special 26. 14.9/27 54. 8.417 
21. 14.4/25 А Hooperman 33, 13.3/23 55 8.3/18 
22. 14.4/22 C Designing Women 18. 16.2/23 56. 8.2/5 
23. 14.1/24 A ABC Sun. Movie Special 24. 15.2/24 57 7.947 
24. 14.1/25 N Highway to Heaven 14. 17.0/31 58. 7.943 
25: 13.8/22 N Му Two Dads 20. 15.8/24 59. 7.918 

26. 13.6/25 A Perfect Strangers 3g 12.3/22 60. 7.7/5 

27 13.6/34 N Different World 19. 16.1/36 61. 7.6/19 

28. 13.3/24 C Jake and the Fatman 29. 14.2/24 62. 7.519 

29 13.2/26 N 227 21. 15.8/28 63. 7.4/19 

30. 13.0/23 A Head of the Class 35. 12.6/23 64. 7.2/16 

enr 123/22 A Slap Maxwell Story 52. 9.947 65. 6.6/15 

82; 12.1/30 N Cheers 2 14.5/32 66. 5.5/1 

33. 11.8/27 C Mandrell Christmas 28. 14.3/30 67 4.0/10 
34. 11.8/23 N Facts of Life 30. 14.2/25 


»O0OPPOOOPZOPOZOPZZPPZPZOZPZO»P»»»OOor 


Net n Show о AGB 
Dynasty 45. 11.1/20 
CBS Friday Movie Special31. 13.7/28 
Cagney and Lacey 32. 13.3/21 
MacGyver 38. 12.0/19 
Thirtysomething 36. 12.3/22 
Disney Sunday Movie 49. 10.216 
Equalizer 42 11.3/20 
Miami Vice 39. 11.8/23 
20/20 50. 10.2721 
Beverly Hills Buntz 40. 11.5/25 
CBS Saturday Movie 43. 11.3/20 
L.A. Law 47. 10.9/23 
Mr. Belvedere 46. 10.9/22 
Crime Story 44. 11.248 
Spenser: For Hire 62. 8.8/13 
Ohara 61 8.8/16 
Our House 34. 12.7/21 
NBC News Special 53. 9.847 
ABC Thursday Movie 57 9.4/21 
West 57th 55 9.749 
Private Eye 48. 10.2/21 
Top of the Pops: Christmas51 9.9/18 
Pursuit of Happiness 59. 9.3/18 
Houston Knights 66. 7.642 
Rags to Riches 60. 8.9/19 
Sable 63. 8.3/15 
Bugs Bunnys Christmas 58. 9.3/21 
Santabear 56. 9.7/22 
CBS Thurs. Movie Special54. 9.7/21 
| Married Dora 65. 8.0717 
Full House 64 80/17 
The Room 67 6.513 
Santa Claus: Making of 68. 5.3/12 


High definition in high gear іп "88 


ATSC balloting, FCC steering 
committee meeting on HDTV on 
agenda for early part of new year 


The interest in high-definition television 
that intensified throughout the television in- 
dustry in 1987 has carried unabated into the 
new year. In addition to a meeting scheduled 
for later this month in Hawaii continuing a 
dialogue between officials of the National 
Association of Broadcasters and Japan's 
NHK (see page 112) and an HDTV session 
set for this Saturday (Jan. 9) at the Associ- 
ation of Independent Television Stations 
convention in Los Angeles (see page 76), 
several developments are now taking shape 
to affect the terrestrial broadcasting, cable 
carriage, production, regulation and stan- 
dard-setting aspects of HDTV. 

The Advanced Television Systems Com- 
mittee, representing a confederation of in- 
dustry groups interested in exploring ad- 
vanced television systems, ended balloting 
last Thursday (Dec. 31) on whether to ac- 
cept the formal document that, according to 
its stated purpose, “defines the basic charac- 
teristics of the video signals associated with 


Origination equipment Operating in the 
1,125-line, 60 hertz high-definition televi- 
sion production system." The standard, de- 
veloped by the Society of Motion Picture 
and Television Engineers at the request of 
ATSC, sets down the scanning parameters, 
system colorimitry, bandwidth and other 
specifications to be included in HDTV vid- 
eotape recorders, cameras and related 
equipment. 

Although results of the voting were un- 
available at press time last week, indications 
were the production standard would be 
adopted. Sources close to ATSC speculated 
that most of the 45 companies that were 
mailed ballots had established positions on 
the production standard before voting began 
and were unlikely to have changed them. 
The standard was sent to a vote of the full 
ATSC after its T3 subcommittee examining 
HDTV systems approved it by a vote of 26 
for, none against and nine abstentions. If 
passed, the standard will be submitted to the 
National Radio Standards Institute for possi- 
ble passage as the American voluntary stan- 
dard. It is now being used by the U.S. State 
Department to outline the American posi- 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
104 


tion before the International Radio Consul: 
tative Committee (CCIR). 

As the ballots were sent out, letters were 
also mailed to ATSC members from propo: 
nents of both sides of the issue. In a lettei 
dated Dec. 10, Michael Sherlock, presiden 
of NBC operations and technical services 
listed the reasons the network was Opposing 
the proposal: "After you have given tht 
question sufficient thought you will agret 
that establishment of an ATSC standard a 
this time is counterproductive to the promul 
gation of ATV service in the United States,’ 
Sherlock wrote. 

Sherlock based his argument on two cen 
tral points: that the proposed system ha 
failed to gain international acceptance an 
that it is not “friendly” to the existing NTSC 
standards. ATSC decided to pursu 
1,125/60 standardization, he said, as acom 
promise "offered in the hope of getting : 
single worldwide standard." But the opposi 
tion to the system expressed by Europeai 
countries has doomed 1,125/60's chances o 
being a "worldwide compromise," he said 
Several countries in Europe are now work 
ing together to develop an alternativ 


edy vig 4 5:47 
с зе ра end- 
о СИЕ Е: fast 
rising comics, tailor- | 
made to accompany 
115 second spots on | 
late programming. | 
2 
і 


СЕКЕ 
Won't Work If 
They're Not Seen. 


A commercial can be an on-target award winner, 
but it won't stand a chance if its zapped, forgotten 
or lost in the clutter. 

However, SMC, the leaders in syndicated short- 
form programming, can change all that. 

Our entertaining, informative "Zap-Busting" 
vignettes make certain that your commercial mes- 
sages will be seen, heard and recalled through a 
value-added wraparound format that captures 
viewers attention, creates greater impact and 
makes a message stand out. 

And studies show that commercials enhanced by 
the vignette format can actually give you as much as 
four times greater viewer retention* That's recall that 
cant be beat! SEE US AT 


"SOURCE: UPON REQUEST. INTV 


: E на - | SUITES 733-735 | 


WHODUNIT?: Targets 

sports fans with a | 
:30 second quiz that 

holds viewers in their 

"living room box seats” 


HEALTH BREAK: 

Jim Palmer hosts this 
:30 second series focus- 
ing on health related 
issues, a topic on the 
forefront of everyone's 
mind. 


FASHION IN A 
FLASH: Timely tips 
on fashion, beauty, 
fitness are offered in 
this :30 second series 
designed to reach 
women audiences. 


WORLD CLASS 
WOMEN: One hun- 
dred :30 second insert 
programs celebrat- 

ing women's Olympic 
achievements, fifty 
each for the winter and 
summer games. 


ASK PROFESSOR 


SMC VIGNETTES BE NUTRITION: This engag- 
Professor animated :30 second 


The perfect setting z P Nutrition | wraparound series 
for your commercial. = answers questions 


on nutrition and food. 


ГІ 

M E D | = 
OMMUNICATI кА 

© 1988 Select Media Communications, Inc. 


1,225/50 production standard to compete 
with 1,125/60 in the CCIR. 

“Therefore,” Sherlock said, "there is no 
good reason why we should not select sys- 
tem parameters to be as friendly as possible 
to our NTSC environment." He said that a 
friendlier and more economical conversion 
for NTSC broadcasters would be a 1,050/ 
59.94 system. The scanning parameters of 
NBC's proposed advanced compatible tele- 
vision, one-channel terrestrial broadcasting 
system, are 1,050/59.94. "NBC believes 
that the industry's needs will eventually re- 
sult in two backward-compatible HDTV 
standards for television, at 1,050/59.94 and 
1,250/50. A third standard at 1,125/60 
serves no purpose," Sherlock said. 

Joseph Flaherty, vice president and gener- 
al manager, CBS Development and Engi- 
neering, mailed letters "to some people" 
presenting the other side of the issue, ac- 
cording to Rupert Stow, CBS director of 
production systems analysis. Flaherty was 
not available for comment last week. In the 
past, he has made CBS’s case in favor of 
1,125/60 by emphasizing the advantages of 
HDTV program production, both artistically 
and economically. “High-definition elec- 
tronic production significatly improves the 
productivity and economy, and reduces the 
elapsed time of production. Electronic pro- 
duction and post-production of a single cam- 
era drama offers savings of 15% of total 
production costs,” Flaherty told engineers at 
last February’s SMPTE winter conference in 
San Francisco. 

On the subject of international hostility to 
1,125/60, CBS in its comments on the 
FCC’s notice of inquiry on advanced televi- 
sion said: “It is hoped that a further period of 
study will resolve reservations expressed by 
several national administrations in Europe.” 
During a hearing before the House Telecom- 
munications Subcommittee — (BROAD- 


CASTING, Oct. 12, 1987), Flaherty ex- 
pressed confidence that a worldwide 
production system could be achieved with 
help on the diplomatic level from the State 
Department. 

On the regulatory front, the steering com- 
mittee of the FCC's advanced television 
(ATV) advisory committee will meet tomor- 
row morning (Jan. 5) at the FCC building in 
Washington. Attending will be ATV com- 
mittee Chairman Richard Wiley of the 
Washington law firm, Wiley, Rein & Field- 
ing, FCC officials including Mass Media 
Bureau Chief Alex Felker, the chairmen of 
the three ATV subcommittees (CBS's Fla- 
herty, planning subcommittee; Irwin Dorros 
of Bell Communications Research, systems 
subcommittee; James Tietjen of the David 
Sarnoff Research Center, implementation 
subcommittee) and the subcommittee vice 
chairmen. 

The meeting will address organizational 
and personnel matters. "I think what we're 
looking at is to make sure that everyone is 
comfortable with the way the work is being 
divvied up among the various subcommit- 
tees and the composition of the subcommit- 
tees," Felker said. Items on the agenda will 
include formulation of voting and funding 
proceedures, issues that were discussed at 
length during the first meeting of the ATV 
"blue ribbon" committee Nov. 17 (BROAD- 
CASTING, Nov. 23, 1987). There will also be 
progress reports from each of the subcom- 
mittee chairmen. Special attention will be 
paid to Flaherty's report on the planning 
subcommittee, which is responsible for 
drafting the first set of ATV committee rec- 
ommendations to the commission on spec- 
trum management, due May 17. The plan- 
ning committee has already met once and is 
scheduled to meet again Jan. 26. 

The National Cable Television Associ- 
ation's investigations into advanced cable 


SatellitesFootorints 


TV systems expanded just before the new 
year with the organization of a working 
group of the NCTA engineering committee’s 
HDTV subcommittee. The group, made up 
of representatives from several cable equip- 
ment manufacturers and multiple system op- 
erators, will “look at various approaches to 
improving television as we know it today,” 
within the 6 mhz bandwidth limit of NTSC, 
according to NCTA vice president and gen- 
eral counsel, Brenda Fox. Chairing the 
NTSC-compatible working group will be 
Paul Perez of Recoton Corp., Long Island 
City, N.Y., manufacturer of TV stereo 
equipment. Information from the overall 
HDTV subcommittee will be used by the 
NCTA's "blue ribbon" HDTV committee 
formed earlier this year, Fox said. 

The Congress's interest in HDTV's future 
will again become a topic of discussion this 
week. Three members of the House Tele- 
communications Subcommittee will be at 
the Las Vegas Hilton this Friday (Jan. 8) for 
a high-definition television workshop at the 
Electronics Industries Association's (EIA) 
Winter Consumer Electronics Show. The 
session, "HDTV: The Policymakers Speak," 
will be attended by Michael Oxley (R- 
Ohio), Don Ritter (R-Pa.) and Thomas 
Tauke (R-Iowa). 

All three congressmen were present at the 
Telecommunications Subcommittee hearing 
last Oct. 8, where the committee's chair- 
man, Edward Markey (D-Mass.), asked 
witnesses from the television industry to 
“stay close to us... We want to stay ahead of 
the technical curve." Other panelists in- 
clude: Ben Crutchfield of the National Asso- 
ciation Broadcasters; Fred Weingarten, Of- 
fice of Technology Assessment; R. T. Gregg, 
National Telecommunications and Informa- 
tion Administration; NCTA's Fox; Greg De- 
Priest, Association of Maximum Service 
Telecasters, and Tom Friel, EIA. С 


Buried treasure. State and federal authorities seized allegedly illegal 
descrambling equipment in two states within a span of 48 hours in late 
December, according to General Instrument, manufacturer of the 
most widely used encrypting system in the U.S., Videocipher II. 

The FBI, Hannibal, Mo., police and Missouri state police raided 
Hannibal-based Beach Craft Electronics Inc. Dec. 22, seizing de- 
scrambler modules, parts, programs, business documents and cus- 
tomer records, according to General Instrument. Federal search 
warrants in that case, which identified Harry L. Daily Jr. as Beach 
Crafts owner, alleged that Beach Craft has been involved in the 
manufacture, modification, marketing and distribution of illegally 
modified descramblers. Daily could not be reached for comment. The 
FBI's technical division will analyze the seized materials and report its 
findings to the U.S. Attorney's office for review and possible criminal 
action, said General Instrument. Gi, which has offered to assist the FB! 
in its analysis, said the Motion Picture Associatlon of America 
(MPAA)—charged by its membership with protecting copyright com- 
pensation—aided development of information on pirate activity at 
Beach Craft. MPAA antipiracy division spokesman, Mark Harrad, said 
that, since 1975 when MPAA began tracking piracy of film prints, then 
videotapes and most recently satellite signals, the association has 
established film and video security offices in Los Angeles and New 
York and enlisted a total of 75 investigators (many formerly with the 
FBI) full- and part-time across the country. 

In Brundidge, Ala., U.S. Customs Service agents, assisted by the 
U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and the Alabama 
Bureau of Investigation, seized integrated circuits, printed circuit 
boards, descramblers, customer records and other documents in a 


Dec. 23 raid on Tri-State Satellite Inc. of Alabama. Search warrants 
identified Benny Herring as Tri-State owner. Herring said he had no 
comment. Customs Service technical staff will pass analysis results to 
the U.S. Attorney in Montgomery, Ala. 

“Our Civil litigation program is continuing and will target distributors 
and dealers of pirate devices,” said Richard Hoffman, СІ vice presi- 
dent and general counsel. Promising an aggressive civil litigation 
effort by СІ, he said, “It will become very clear soon that pirates will 
have no rest from legal actions in both criminal and civil courts.” С! 
won à Civil suit against Ralph William Heller last November in the U.S. 
District Court of Phoenix (BRoADCAsriNG, Nov. 30, 1987). 

Eye on the ball. Houston International Teleport (HIT) and its 
mobile uplink division, Satellite Transmission and Reception Spe- 
cialists (STARS), began uplink service late last month for Raycom 
Sports coverage of 53 college basketball games. The Raycom 
contract, valued at between $150,000 and $200,000, includes 
coverage of games in the Pac-10, Big 8, Southwest and Metro 
conferences. That coverage culminates with mid-March tourna- 
ments in Memphis, Tucson, Ariz., and Kansas City HIT and STARS 
last week uplinked the Orange Bowl from Miami, the Fiesta Bowl 
from Tempe, Ariz., and the Hall of Fame Bowl from Tampa, Fla., all 
for NBC. Last week they also uplinked Raycoms coverage of the 
Liberty Bowl from Memphis and Mizlous coverage of the Blue 
Bonnet Bowl from Houston. Beginning Jan. 6, they will uplink 
Jefferson Pilot broadcasts of 18 Southeastern Conference (SEC) 
basketball games, running through the SEC womens basketball 
tournament ending March 7. That contract is valued between 
$60,000 to $100,000. 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


106 


All of these people are related to famous celebrities! And television 
viewers, with their insatiable curiosity about famous people, will 
find it absolutely irresistible to identify these unknown faces and 
their well-known relatives. In fact, it'll be habit-forming! 
The show is RELATIVELY SPEAKING, an all new game show 
with lots of laughs, and it will be available as a half-hour strip 
on a barter basis starting Fall ’88. 
Experience the fascination we all have 
with the very famous by calling for a demo 
today. It's all so easy—relatively speaking! 


DISTRIBUTED BY SMC 
SEE US AT CALL 212/355-0033 
INT V PRODUCED BY 


SUITES 733-735 ATLANTIC/KUSHNER-LOCKE, INC. M Е D i A 
и AND THE MALTESE COMPANIES. TIONS 


© 1987 Atlanüc/Kushner-Locke, Inc. and The Maltese Companies. © 1987 Select Media Communications Мис. 


Stockalncex 


Marker Market 
Closing Closing Capitali- Closing Closing Capitali- 
Wed Wed Net Percent PIE zation Wed Wed Net Percent PIE zation 


Dec 29 Dec 22 Change Change Ratio (000,000) 
ee BROADCASTING 


Dec 29 Dec 22 Change Change Ratio (000,000) 
T и PROGRAMING ME 


N (ССВ) Capital СШез/АВС.... 339 348 - 9 —0258 23 5,480 | О (NNET) Nostalgia Network.. 1 1/2 7/8 58 7142 -2 Е 
м (CBS) CBS s . 156 14 161 12 - 514 -0325 9 3,687] М (ОРС) Orion Plctures........... 10 5/8 10 78 - 14 -0229 16 18: 
А (CCU) Clear Channel... 12 1/8 12 38 - 14 -0202 23 39 | © (MOVE)PeregrineEntertaln. 1 38 1 58 - 14 -1538 -45 £ 
О (МЕТА) Infinity Broadcast... 17 15 12 * V? 09.67 -130 142 | м (PLA) Playboy Ent... 13 13 2 - 12 -0370 -8 12: 
О (JCOR) Jacor Commun..... 4 1/2 4916 - 116 -01.36 25 | © (QVCN) QVC Network... 5 5 00.00 3: 
© (LINB) LIN ..... 43 1/8 44 14 — 118 -0254 23  2312| о (RVCC)Reeves Commun... 6 58 7 58 - 1 = 1341 662 8: 
О (MALR) Malrite.. 5 78 6 14 - 38 -0600 8 80| © (RPICA) Republic Ріс. А... 4 1/4 4 14 00.00 47 1t 
O (MALRA) Malrite ‘A’. = E 614 = 114 -2000 -7 68 | О (RPICB) Republic Plc, В"... 5 12 5 12 1000 39 : 
О (OBCCC) Olympic Broad... 3 14 312 - Wa -0714 8| А (RHI) Robert Halmi........ 112 1 1/2 0000 6 x 
О (OSBN) Osborn Commun... 4 34 4 34 0000 4 19 | О (SMNI) Sat. Music Net. 3 21146 5/16 11.62 -75 2t 
© (ОСОМА) Outlet Commun.. 10 9 14 за 0810 65 | О (TRSP) Tri-Star Pictures... 818 8 18 0156 14 25 
А (PR) Price Commun... 10 58 9 7/8 34 0759 -5 91| N (WCI) Warner... 27 34 29 14 - 112 -0512 16 Зан 
© (SAGB) Sage Broadcasting 5 5 14 - 14 -0476 -7 16| O (WWTV) Western World ту. 3/8 716 - 16 -1428 2 
О (SCRP) Scripps Howard ...... 78 76 1/2 112 0196 26 805 | О (МОМЕ) Westwood One...... 18 20 - 2 -1000 24 22: 
O (SUNN) SunGroup Inc. 7/8 1 = 18 -12.50 1 2 
О (TLMD) Telemundo...... 8 T gu 34 1034 -I ӘН Т ЕЕРЕЕ 
O (TVXG) TVX Broadcast.. 214 2 34 - 12 -1818 -i 13 
О (ОТУ) United Televiston...... 22 22 2000 36 241 | © (BSIM) Burnup & Sims... 7 24 7 58 18 01.63 15 12: 
О (CVSI Compact Video... 2 18 2 14 - 18 -0555 -1 1 
[e] [rer € 
BROADCASTING WITH OTHER MAJOR INTERESTS м (CQ) Comsat... 2? 12 28 18 - 58 -0222 M 50. 
d 
М (BLC) А.Н. Belo............. Sag] #48 48 7/8 - 7/8 -0179 15 а ЕМ REBI Roote Соле ев аше и 19 Да E ТЕ 
O (GREY) Grey Advertising... 99 98 1 01.02 14 11: 
А (AAR) Adams Russell.......... 42 5/8 42 778 - 14 -0058 710 284 
О (IDBX) 108 Communications 714 8 14 -4 = 12.12 29 2 
О (ASTV) Amer. Comm. & TV 18 1/8 00.00 9 ч 
N (IPG) Interpublic Group... 20 3/8 31 - 58 -0201 15 67. 
М (AFL) American Раті!у........ 14 14 34 - Ja -0508 13 1,127 
A (MOV) Movielab........ 6 34 6 3/4 00.00 1 
О (ACCMA) Assoc. Commun. 23 23 00.00 219 4 З 
О (осі) Oglivy Group , 23 14 23 12 i14 -0106 12 32 
О (BMAC) Bus. Men's Assur. 26 28 78 - 278 -0995 -10 272 
О (OMCM) Omnicom Group... 20 19 1 05.26 -90 49 
HN. (CON) Се сат... 18 iE 00.00 20 363| н (SAA) Saatchi & Sastchl... 22 5/8 23 34 - 118 -0473 12 329 
N (DNB) Dun & Bradstreet 5251/2 544 145-144, озо 4218 79828] жаздан зоо ; 4 
9 22 12 21 14 114 0588 13 192 О (TLMT) Telematlon................ 2 2 00.00 8 
4 А (TPO) TEMPO Enterprises... 6 78 7 - 18 -078 22 3 
N (GCI) Gannett Co. 37 38 Ма - 1 14 -0326 20 5978| , (му) Unitel Video В 7 34 14 26122, 11 1 
N (GY) GenCorp...... 21 67 - 46 -6865 3 469 гише 2 
М (JP) Jefferson-Pilot 26 34 26 34 ооо 9 105| ————————— САБЕ — ы 
x. Ta agio daar ыы 3515.2: 20249 M68 зала талас. 12 38 13 18 - За -0571 1 
N (LEE) Lee Enterprises 22 22 14 - 44 -0112 13 547 ' 
A (ACN) American Cable... 43 7/8 44 1/8 - 14 -0056 -86 4t 
М (LC) Liberty ............. 35 34 35 34 00.00 12 342 
О (ATCMA)Amer TV& Comm. 21 34 21 3/4 0000 83 238 
М (MHP) McGraw-Hill. 49 18 48 14 78 01.81 16 2482 ТЕ 
А (CVC) Cablevision Sys. "А. 26 24 2 08.33 -44 54 
A (MEGA) Media Сепега!........ 34 34 33 1/2 i14 0373 5! 980 
М (CNT) Centel Согр.... .. 36 36 14 - 14 -0068 14 104 
N (MDP) Meredith Corp. 29 14 28 78 38 0129 15 561 
о (GCCOA) Century Commun. 15 14 15 14 01.66 1525 44 
О (MMEDC) Multimedia.. 51 49 1/2 1 12 03.03 5100 561 
O (CMCSA) Comcast... T. 123 23 18 - 18 -00.54 -104 95 
A (NYTA) New York Times 30 58 31 - 8&8 -01.20 17 2,508 
О (ESSAC) Essex commune 15 1/2 16 = 12 -0312 -35 5 
N (NWS) News Corp. Ltd. 16 7/8 16 18 &4 0465 10 2,38 
A (FAL) Falcon Cable Systems. 16 38 16 34 - 38 -0223 -51 10 
О (PARC) Park Commun. ........ 25 24 1 0416 21 345 
О (JOIN) Jones Intercable....... 10 9 58 3/8 0389 31 12 
О (PLTZ) Pulltzer Publishing.. 27 12 27 1/2 00.00 22 288 Pod 
T (МНРО) Maclean Hunter 'X!' 19 58 19 7/8 - 14 -01.25 27 72 
М (REL)RellanceGroupHold.. 5 34 6 14 - 12 -0800 6 431 
О (RCCAA) Rogers Cable А... 22 58 22 5/8 00.00 n 
O (RTRSY) Reuters Ltd. 55 18 52 7/8 2 14 04.25 26 22885 
О (TCAT) TCA Cable TV... 27 3/4 28 34 - 1 -0347 56 30 
T (SKHQ) Selkirk 20 12 20 1/2 00.00 44 166 
О (TCOMA) Tele-Commun. 22 1/2 22 1/8 38 0169 36 326 
O (STAUF) Stauffer Commun. | 135 135 0000 22 135 
М (TL) Time Їпс......................... 80 18 80 34 - 58 -0077 12 4,75 
А (ТО) Тесһ/Орв Inc... 23 12 23 1/2 00.00 9 50 
О (UAC) United Ай. Commun. 23 14 22 12 34 03.33 193 95 
N (TMC) Times Mirror ... 71 34 73 12 - 134 -0238 14 4,628 
М (UCT) United Cable TV....... 21 7/8 20 7/8 04.79 -364 82 
O (TMCI) TM Communications 34 3/4 00.00 3 5 
М (VIA) Viacom ............. 17 58 17 34 - 18 -0070 93 
О (TPCC) ТРС Commun.......... ane 3/16 00.00 2| N (wu) amo VES NE 00.00 A 
М (TRB) Tribune............. .. 38 12 38 38 18 0032 14 3033 NOSE DO) Union gais. 
А (TBSA) Turner Bcstg. ‘А’... 10 10 38 - 38 -03601 -1 217 | -——— ELECTRONICS/MANUFACTURING MEME 
A (TBSB) Turner Bestg. 'B'... 858 8 5/8 0781 -1 187 
A (WPOB) Washington Post... 185 192 -7 -0364 20 2,376 | М (МММ) ЗМ 62 78 64 14 - 138 -0214 16 14,39 
O (AMCI) AM Со 5/16 1/4 116 2500 
———— PROGRAMING ОН НМ (АНУ) Arvin Industrles......... 18 17 34 14 0140 6 33 
© (SP) Aaron Spelling Prod... 4 3/8 4 38 ГӘР УЕ в1 | О (CCBL) C-Cor Electronics... 5 14 5 М4 0500 14 1 
O (САТУ) Cable TY indus. 2 2 38 - 38 -1578 -13 
O (АЦТ) All American TV... 1 1/4 1 1/4 00.00 1 
A (СЕС) Cetec... 478 4 14 5/8 14.0 162 
O (BRRS) Barris Indus. 6 58 7 - 88 -0535 3 58 
м (CHY) Chyron. 4 14 412 - 4 -0555 16 4 
N (KO) Coca-Cola... 37 12 39 58 - 21/8 -0536 14 14174 
А (СХС) CMX Corp.. 7/8 7/8 0000 12 
A (CLR) Color Systems 3 3 38 - 38 -nu -1 15 
A (СОН) Cohu.......... 6 34 6 34 00.00 16 1 
О (САУМ) СУМ Cos. ...... 8 8 18 - 18 -0153 -24 146 
N (EK) Eastman Kodak... 48 1/4 49 12 - 11/4 -0252 12 109 
A (DEG) De Laurentils Ent... 1 1 78 - 18 -nn 11 
М (GRL) Gen, Instrument 31 32 34 - 134 -0534 -13 1,0 
О (аср!) dick clark prod. 6 14 6 1/4 04.16 16 51 
М (GE) General Electric 44 14 47 14 - 3 -06.34 16 40,44 
N (DIS) Disney ............... 60 14 60 38 - 18 -0020 21 7914 
O (GETE) Geotel Inc. 1 178 1 18 0000 3 
N (DJ) Dow Jones & Co. 29 78 30 5/8 - 24 -0244 14 2,892 
N (HRS) Harris Corp. 25 34 26 18 - 38 -0143 13 7E 
O (EM) Entertalnment Mktg.. 338 3 58 - 14 -0689 11 41 
N (MAI) M/A Com. Inc.. 878 8 34 18 0142 а 2E 
О (FNNI) Financial News... 6 34 7 14 - 1/2 -0689 42 79 
O (MCDY) Microdyne 3 3146 - 16 -0204 -2 1 
A (FE) Fries Entertain... 214 2 14 0000 9 11 М 
N (MOT) Motorola..... 49 14 50 34 - 112 -0295 27 63 
N (GW) Gulf + Western 72 74 - 2 -02.70 16 4,374 H 
М (OAK) Oak Industrias.. 1 1 0000 1 j 
O (HRSI) Hal Roach 4 14 аза - 18 -0285 59 29 
А (РРІ) Pico Products... 3 2 34 14 0909 -60 1 
A (HHH) Heritage Entertain... 278 3 - 18 -0416 2 13 
N (SFA) Sci-Atlanta .. и 74 11 12 - 14 -0217 -125 2€ 
A (HSN) Home Shopping Net, 5 38 5 78 - 12 -085! 14 461 
М (SNE) Sony Corp....... 37 14 38 34 - 112 -0387 61 861 
N (KWP) King World... 17 1/8 17 1/2 - 38 -0214 17 512 
М (ТЕК) Tektronix........ 24 25 14 - 114 -0495 18 7É 
O (LAUR) Laurel Entertain. . 138 1 34 - 38 -2142 3 3 
О (TLCR) Telecrafter ы. 2 12 3 18 - 58 -2000 11 
A (LT) Lorimar-Telepictures.... 9 7/8 9 78 | 0972 т 451 A 
N (VAR) Мапап Assoc. 2 25 - 1? -0200 122 5: 
М (МСА) МСА... "mee АЗДЫ 7/8 MES 5/8 114 0371 16 2,650 Я 
N (WX) Westinghouse. 50 14 - 78 -0174 10 7,08 
N (MGM) MGM/UA Commun 6 38 6 12 - 18 -0192 -8 318 | М (2Е) Zenith 15 38 - 12 -0225 59 e 
A (NHI) Nelson Holdings... 12 916 - 116 - 11.11 -5 13 i 1 
A (NWE) New World Ente з 18 3 38 - 14 -0740 2 33 | Standard & Poor's 400.......... 283.15 289.04 - 589 - 02. 


Т.Тоголіо, A-American, N-NYSE, O-OTC. Bid prices and common A stock used unless otherwise — Standard & Poor's or as obtained by Broadcasting's own research. Notes: " 3-for-1 split, Dec. 2 
noted. P/E ratios are based on earnings per share for the previous 12 months as published by 1987. 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


World Class Women 
. IsIn A Class By Itself 


Е 


€ [15 a winner! WORLD CLASS WOMEN 
is the first and only series to celebrate women’s 
achievements in sports and other activities. 

е Its the ideal audience crossover oppor- 
tunity! Finally, there's a program about 
women which appeals to men too! 


€ Host Randi Hall, Olympic 
sprint champion Evelyn Ashford, 
and world class bodybuilder 

Rachel McLish can help put you 
over the top, with profiles of women 
achievers that will give you one-of- 
a-kind programming that can run 
either adjacent to sports, or counter 
to sports. 

€ It’s the perfect vehicle for adver- 
tisers targeting male or female 
viewers, as well as those interested 
in reaching both. 

€ Test data shows that WORLD 
CLASS WOMEN dramatically 

A increases demographic delivery. The 
program has been shown to build 
strong women viewership while 
attracting an even larger percentile 
increase among men (figures avail- 
f able upon request) 

* WORLD CLASS WOMEN IS A WORLD 
+ CLASS WINNER. THERE'S NEVER BEEN 
A SERIES LIKE IT. 

Call Select Media Communications today 

at 212/355-0033. Vicki Jo Hoffman, Director, 
Television Distribu- 5 Е L E. C T 


tion. Andrew Eder, THE 


Director, National HHI E s T 

Advertising Sales. HELM к 

— Available Fourth ав” „jani 
SEE US ы Quarter, 1988. "m. HHE 
INTV В Original Half- sei | ЕЕЕ 
SUITES 733-735 Hours. Barter Basis. Соммоктсаттоһ% 


€) НГ Select Меша Communkcais «с. с 


AND THE SOLDIERS OF THE FUTURE 


DOVER 


AND THE SOLDIERS OF THE FUTURE 


IN 1987, CAPTAIN POWER MADE INTERACTIVE 
TELEVISION A REALITY. — 
IN 1988, THE ADVENTURE CONTINUES . . . 


7: А PROVEN FIRST-RUN HIT. 


81 ATTRACTS THE HARD-TO-REACH TEEN 
AND YOUNG ADULT AUDIENCES. 


E; STILL THE ONLY INTERACTIVE LIVE-ACTION 
ADVENTURE SHOW ON TELEVISION. 


Hs STATIONS THAT PROGRAM CAPTAIN POWER IN LATER, 
ALL-FAMILY TIME PERIODS ARE REALLY FEELING THE POWER. 


# | AMONG TEENS IN THE TIME PERIOD: 
New York - WPIX Los Angeles - KTLA 


# | AMONG TEENS AND MEN 18-34 
IN ALIE ШЕ ee à 


Chicago - Wi KTV 
Pittsburgh — AN OB ш а Нои -KSTW 


«WELL MADE! 
“REAL DRAMAP? 
«WATCH THE SHOW 


SISKEL & EBERT 


Source: Nielsen Station Index, October 1987 VIP pie 


in Pow arks? owned by Landmark Entertainment Group. 
Ни ка нес гай nt Gro up Al Rights D Ae 


TheaMedia 


Minority takes issue with TVRO bill 


Subcommittee Chairman Inouye, 
others, take issue with legislation 
regulating home satellite industry 


Calling it "bad legislation," based on "cir- 
cumstantial, anecdotal and unproven 
claims,” Senators Daniel Inouye (D-Ha- 
wali), chairman of the Communications 
Subcommittee, and Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), 
in the "minority views" submitted as part of 
the Commerce Committee’s report on S. 
889, lodged their grievances with the bill 
that would regulate the home satellite 
(TVRO) marketplace. Released last week, 
the report explains the committee's action 
and views on the measure, which Com- 
merce adopted by voice vote last November 
(BROADCASTING, Nov. 23, 30, 1987). 
Also of note, the report concludes that 
scrambled cable programing is being made 
available to dish owners and at prices com- 
parable to those that cable subscribers pay. 
(Included in the report were several adver- 
tisements from various TVRO programing 
packagers to illustrate availability and pric- 


ing.) Nonetheless, it found that legisla- 
tion—through a structural safeguard—is 
needed to insure that dish owners continue 
to have access to cable programing at rea- 
sonable prices. The bill's key provisions 
therefore would assure TVRO’s access to 
cable programing and would require cable 
programers to permit any qualified third 
party— inside and outside the cable indus- 
try—to distribute their services to dish own- 
ers. The latter would sunset in five years. 

“The committee believes it is less impor- 
tant to focus on prices and more important to 
focus on the market structure,” the report 
stated. “Specifically, the committee is con- 
cerned about the incentives to discriminate 
against home dish owners because of the 
vertical integration of cable operators and 
programers. Such a market structure will 
almost certainly lead to favoritism to the 
disadvantage of the dish owner.” 

The report also cited several examples of 
vertical integration: “Viacom, which owns 
18 systems serving 1.1 million subscribers, 
also owns the following programing ser- 


NAB's Hawaii agenda. The National Association of Broadcasters is covering its congres- 
Sional and technological bases this year during its annual winter joint board of directors 
meeting at the Mauna Lani Bay hotel in Hawaii, Jan. 18-21. Two adjunct sessions will be 
convened at the hotel before and following the board meeting dedicated to legislative issues 


and the future of high-definition television. 


From Jan. 15 to 17 NAB directors and invited representatives of major broadcast groups 
will gather for a legislative forum featuring key House and Senate members (some spouses 
are accompanying the congressmen). This is the third year NAB has conducted a congres- 
sional forum. According to МАВ latest roster, lawmakers slated to attend are: Senator Strom 
Thurmond (R-S.C.), ranking minority member on the Judiciary Committee; Representatives 
Rick Boucher (D-Va.); John Bryant (D-Tex.); Billy Tauzin (D-La.); Dan Coats (R-Ind.); Matthew 
Rinaldo (R-N.J.); Al Swift (D-Wash.); Tom Tauke (R-lowa), and Carlos Moorhead (R-Calif.), all 
House Telecommunications Subcommittee members, and Thomas Luken (D-Ohio), a mem- 
ber of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. House Appropriations Committee 
Chairman Jamie Whitten (D-Miss.) and committee members Harold Rogers (R-Ky.) and John 
Murtha (D-Pa.) are also expected to appear. The forum kicks off Friday evening with a 
reception for the lawmakers. Saturday morning (Jan. 16) a panel on the "Congressional 
Climate for Broadcast Issues," and another on "Must Carry, Satellite and Copyright Issues, 
will be held. Sunday morning (Jan. 17) broadcasters will hear the congressional outlook on 
First Amendment and advertising issues, as well as a discussion on the "1988 Campaigns: 
the Issues, Candidates, and Media Relations." Dinners and receptions are scheduled for 


both Saturday and Sunday evenings. 


Among the group broadcasters who are expected to attend the legislative forum: Ralph 
Becker, Television Station Partners, New York; George Lilly of SUL inc., Billings, Mont.; John 
McCrory, Times Mirror Broadcasting, Greenwich, Conn.; Charles Mechem, Great American, 


Cincinnati; Ed Reilly of McGraw-Hill Broadcasting, New York, and John Dille, Federated 
Media, Elkhart, Ind. Also, joining the broadcasters will be Preston Padden, president of the 
Association of Independent Television Stations. Douglas Bennet, president of National 
Public Radio, was invited but could not attend. 

After the joint board meeting is concluded, NAB executives and those television diréctors 
active on HDTV will meet Friday, Jan. 22, with engineering and management representatives 
from NHK, officials from the Japanese broadcasters association, as well as a representatives 
from the Korean broadcasting system, and Mexican and Canadian broadcasters. The 
session is viewed as an extension of earlier discussions NAB officials held in Japan last year 
(BRoapcasriNG, Nov 9, 1987) on HDTV and the prospects for coordinating developments on 
the new technology The Japanese specifically asked NAB to invite the Canadian and 


Mexican broadcasters, hoping to broaden their contacts in those countries, said Walt Wurfel, 
NAB senior vice president for public affairs and communications. Wurfel said NAB wants to 
continue its dialogue with the Japanese and "share developments.' 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


vices: Showtime; The Movie Channel; 
MTV; Lifetime; Nickelodeon, and VH-1. 
Similiarly, ATC/Time Inc., which owns 615 
systems serving 3.6 million subscribers, 
also owns HBO and Cinemax." 

As for the encouragement of third-party 
distribution, testimony presented at last 
year's committee hearing on S. 889 "shows 
that programers are not permitting their pro- 
grams to be sold by unaffiliated parties. This 
creates a climate where dish owners are 
beholden to cable operators and programers 
and thus pay higher prices and have less 
choice. This position is supported by the 
fact that there are only a few significant 
cable program packages in existence and 
that most 1f not all are controlled by cable 
ргоргатетв.” 

Besides Inouye and Stevens, Senators 
Larry Pressler (R-S.D) and John Kerry (D- 
Mass.) filed “additional views." Pressler 
stated his intentions to amend the bill on the 
Senate floor. (It is believed the full Senate 
won't act on S. 889 until March at the 
earliest.) The amendment would be aimed at 
helping small cable operators to obtain vol- 
ume discounts for programing. 

Kerry expressed his dissatisfaction with 
the measure. "I believe that Senate action on 
the bill at this time is premature, to say the 
least. The bill will not achieve the goals its 
supporters claim, and its passage will dis- 
rupt a new market that is already developing 
in a fair and competitive fashion without 
unwarranted government interference," 
wrote Kerry. He faulted S. 889 because it 
only applies to TVRO. "Is there any rational 
basis for excluding wireless cable and other 
non-cable technologies from this bill, if 
what we really seek to accomplish is to 
enhance competition in the distribution of 
satellite programing—not just competition 
between distributors to satellite dish owners 
but among all distributors to all home view- 
ers?" asked Kerry. “lf one accepts the thrust 
of this bill, if one accepts that its pro- 
competitive features are necessary to deal 
with the alleged cable monopoly, then it 
Should apply fairly and uniformly across the 
board," he added. 

Inouye and Stevens said the bill contains 
"il-conceived and expensive remedies." 
They urged their colleagues to "either im- 
prove it by amendment or reject it outright.” 

The senators were particularly troubled 
by the third-party distribution provision. 
Among their complaints: “it will foster end- 
less litigation,” and stymie the creation of 
new program packages. “Rather than per- 
mitting their programing to be used in pack- 
ages where they lack control, programers 
may decide to sell only directly. Packagers 
with whom programers may want to deal 
will then be unable to market this program- 
ing. While some might argue that pro- 
gramers will not take this route, the decision 


Harmony Gold Presents 


FIVE SMALL LIES: 


ONE BIG TRUTH: 


When you become a member of 
Harmony Gold's RSA you can receive 
over 100 hours of exciting, varied 
programming without having to pay a 
license fee. 


No kidding. 
We know that's hard to believe. All you have to do 
is stop by our suite at INTV and see how you 


become a member of RSA. 
INTV Rooms #511, 513, and 515 


8831 Sunset Blvd., LA, CA 90069-2109 *213/652-8720 « Fax: 213/854-3480 * Telex: 194131 (AGRAMA LSA) 
©1987 Harmony Gold. All Rights Reserved. 


The Knight-Bagehot Fellowship 
announces the fourth annual 


WESTINGHOUSE 
SCHOLARSHIP 


in Economics 
and Business Journalism 


The fourth annual Westinghouse Broadcasting 
Company (Group W) scholarship will be awarded 
this spring to a successful broadcast applicant to 
the Knight-Bagehot Fellowship in Economics and 
Business Journalism. 

The nine-month Knight-Bagehot Fellowship 
at the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia 
University is a mid-career program designed to 
strengthen journalists’ understanding of economics, 
business, and finance. Fellows receive tuition and 
a stipend. 


have included Paul Volcker, T. Boone Pickens, Jr., 
Alan Greenspan, and Walter Wriston. 
The deadline for application is April 1, 1988. 


Contact: Knight-Bagehot Fellowship 
Graduate School of Journalism 
Columbia University 

New York, New York 10027 
(212) 280-2711 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
aaa 


The intensive study program combines course 
work at Columbia University with a specially 
tailored program of seminars and dinners. Guests 


for a programer to market directly is not a 
remote possibility. Many do so today,” wrote 
Inouye and Stevens. 

And, they added: “The authors seem to 
admit their approach has problems and have 
included in this legislation an investigation 
by the Federal Trade Commission on the 
very matter on which we are legislating. We 
agree that an investigation by an expert 
agency is the proper route. We can then 
know whether there is а genuine 
problem.” a 


FCC refuses to 
bar Microband 
New York wireless 
cable service 


Commission finds "no compelling 
reason" to prevent broadcasts 
over ITFS and MDS channels 


The FCC has rejected Cabievision Systems 
Corp.’s request that the agency bar Micro- 
band Companies Inc. from providing its 
wireless cable service in New York over 
ITFS and MDS channels until other MDS 
channels that are hung up in interference 
disputes at the FCC become available for 
competing services. 

In a Dec. 23 letter to the various parties 
involved in the interference dispute, the 
FCC said it has found “no compelling rea- 
son” to prohibit Microband from continuing 
to broadcast its service. 

In an attempt to settle interference battles, 
the FCC has sent a letter to the parties 
involved asking specific questions that will, 
presumably, allow it to settle the interfer- 
ence disputes in short order and make as 
many of the channels available for use as 
possible. 

The FCC also indicated, however, that it 
would prefer the parties get together and 
settle their differences on their own. “Given 
the parties’ professed willingness to negoti- 
ate, we fail to see any impediment to such 
meetings, or the necessity for commission 
initiation of such a meeting,” the letter said. 
“Nor do we see any barrier to the develop- 
ment and submission of a concrete proposal 
for the resolution of the issues presented 
notwithstanding the pleadings filed by the 
parties.” 

Microband has been broadcasting a wire- 
less cable service over MDS and subleased 
ITFS channels to New Yorkers from a bank 
of microwave transmitters atop the Empire 
State Building. The service now comprises 
six cable program services, but Microband 
has enough channels lined up to offer eight 
more. 

The signals are scrambled, and subscrib- 
ers require a special antenna and de- 
scrambler to receive the service. 

In its petition, Cablevision said that it was 
interested in entering the wireless cable 
business in competition with Microband, 
but that the two four-channel MMDS blocks 
necessary to launch such a service were 
unavailable because of interference dis- 


INTERNATIONAL 


PROGRAM 
CONFERENCE 


FEBRUARY 25-29, 1988 


GEORGE R. BROWN CONVENTION CENTER 


FOR EXHIBITION & REGISTRATION 
INFORMATION ABOUT THE WORLD’S LARGEST 
TELEVISION PROGRAM CONFERENCE, CONTACT: 


NATPE International СТ Suite 300 C 10100 Santa Monica Boulevard Cl Los Angeles, CA 90067 C (213) 282-8801 


putes. It asked for the FCC to shut down 
Microband so that it would have an equal 
chance to compete. It also requested that the 
FCC take “whatever steps are necessary. ..to 
promote a resolution of the New York 
ITFS/MMDS situation." 

In response to Cablevision's petition, Mi- 
croband charged that Cablevision's real pur- 
pose was to protect its fledgling convention- 


al cable systems in the city from 
competition. Cablevision is building sys- 
tems in the Bronx and Brooklyn—two bor- 
oughs that Microband has targeted . 
Despite the FCC rejection of Cablevi- 
sion's request to'bar Microband from oper- 
ation, Frank Lloyd, an attorney for Cablevi- 
sion in Washington, said the FCC's letter 
was, on the whofe, a "very, very positive 


Cable 


development." The questions contained in it 
"constitute a road map of engineering pro- 
posals to resolve the New York situation and 
get everybody on the Empire State build- 
ing," he said. 

Cablevision's letter did what it was in- 
tended to do. "We got the FCC’s attention by 
beating them over the head with a two-by- 
four," Lloyd said. a 


News of the North 


The Canadian Broadcasting Corp. is work- 
ing toward bringing Canadian cable view- 
ers the country's first 24-hour news and 
information channel. The CBC was selected 
by the Canadian Radio-Television and Tele- 
communications Commission to provide a 
news and information service to Canada, 
and the CBC is/putting the network togeth- 
er, hoping for a launch next fall. 

The new service wil join the other 15 
basic and six to seven pay cable channels 
available to Canada's five million cable sub- 
scribers, which represent 80% of the coun- 
trys six million homes. CBC expects the 
service to cost $19 million in the first year, 
with revenues expected to cover expenses. 
CBC anticipates revenue of $4.4 million 
from advertising and $14.8 million in sub- 
scription fees. The service is expected to 
cost subscribers an additional 25 cents to 40 
cents per month. 

The operation will be run separately from 
the other radio and television networks of 
the CBC, which is partially funded by Parlia- 
ment. CBC's only other cable channel is a 
Canadian version of C-SPAN, which covers 
the proceedings of the House of Commons. 
The CBC will set up a Journalistic Review 
Committee to monitor and make recom- 
mendations about the news channel, a set- 
up designed to safeguard established jour- 
nalistic ethics. 

CBC already has a wide network of jour- 
nalists gathering regional news for the ex- 
isting broadcast networks. That staff will 
be augmented with another 200 employes. 
A spokesman said that more than 50% of 
the on-air product will come from the exist- 
ing newsgathering apparatus, as regional 
reports will now be broadcast to the entire 
country. The regular one-hour nightly news 
shows the CBC broadcasts on its French 
and English network will appear on the new 
channel, but several hours after their initial 
airing. There are two major programing 
blocks in the schedule of the new service, a 
5-11 am. “Daybreak” segment and the 6-11 
p.m. “This Country” segment. The English- 
language nightly news is scheduled to run 
at 2 a.m., four hours after its broadcast 
showing, while the French-language news 
will appear at 11 p.m., one hour after its 
showing on the French broadcast service. 

The CRTC has taken pains that the new 
service will have an across-the-country pro- 
duction slant. More than 70% of the ser- 
vice's programs are to be produced outside 


Toronto and no fewer than 12 hours are to 
be anchored in cities in British Columbia, 
Alberta and Atlantic Canada. CBC said vir- 
tually all the weekend programing will be 
produced in cities outside central Canada. 

The new venture, which is headed by 
Joan Donaldson, has not yet decided on an 
on-air name. 

The CRTC has also asked for proposals for 
a French-language news and information 
channel, which CBC is also studying. The 
deadline for those bids is Dec. 1. 


Sporting goods 


SportsChannel, which operates four region- 
al sports services, plans to add a half-hour 
shopping program in the spring that will be 
available to its over three million subscrib- 
ers. The Sports Shopping Showcase will be 
hosted by SportsChanne] Mets announcer 
Fran Healy and sportscaster Leandra Reilly. 
The show will feature, among other items, 
fitness equipment, sportswear and special 
sports vacations. There will also be theme 
shows as well as name athletes demonstrat- 
ing the products they endorse. Lund Media 
Associates will coordinate sales and mar- 
keting for the project. 


Political possibilities 


The Cabletelevision Advertising Bureau has 
lined up speakers for its Jan. 15 political 
advertising workshop, to be held from 9 
a.m. to noon in the caucus room of the 
Cannon House Office Building in Washing- 
ton. The workshop is designed to provide 
candidates and their staffs with information 
on the value of advertising on cable. 

The speakers will include Julie Aquan, 
marketing coordinator, A.C. Nielsen Co.; 
Ed Bennett, executive vice president, Via- 
com Cable; Wiliam Cromer, president, Wil- 
liam Cromer Associates; John Deardourff, 
chairman, Bailey, Deardourff & Sipple; Da- 
vid Doak, chairman, Doak & Shrum; James 
Cownie, president, telecommunications 
group, Heritage Communications; Cather- 
ine Farrell, president, Farrell Media/Ailes 
Communications; Anthony Fabrizio, presi- 
dent, Multi-Media Services; James Moon- 
ey, president, National Cable Television 
Association; John Power, group vice presi- 
dent, Vitt Media International; Fred Vierra, 
president and chief executive officer, Unit- 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
116 


ed Cable, and Bob Williams, president, Na- 
tional Cable Advertising. 

The workshop will examine how cable s 
multichannel environment segments the 
viewing audience, what the latest in audi- 
ence research information means and how 
cable can be used in new media strategies 
and campaigns. It will be free to all atten- 
dees and recorded by C-SPAN for later 
viewing. 

CAB said research shows that cable sub- 
scribers are 36% more inclined to be in- 
volved in political fund raising and 2696 
more likely to work for a candidate than 
nonsubscribers. Among the chief attributes 
for cable, said CAB, is that cable systems 
closely target local election districts, that 
cable's format allows for longer-form com- 
mercials than the typical 30-second spot 
and that cable's low cost can help stretch 8 
campaign's budget. 


QVC changes 


QVC Network President David Baxter wil 
leave his post at the end of the year, but wil 
remain with the company as a consultant 
and director, the home shopping service 
announced last week. Joseph Segel, chair 
man and chief executive officer, will take 
over the title of president. 

Segel said the reorganization “will short: 
en the span of command," as all eight ex 
ecutive vice presidents will now report tc 
Segel. Previously, seven executive vict 
presidents reported to Baxter. With Segel': 
new appointment, the company has addec 
an eighth executive vice president position 
for new business development. It will be 
filed by Keith Halford, former executive 
vice president, marketing, who will concen 
trate on “collateral activities that suppor 
the basic business,” said Segel. Halford wil 
be succeeded by David Heneberry, former! 
managing director of the direct marketint 
division of Tatham-Laird & Kudner. 

Segel said the reorganization will in 
crease the effectiveness of the company, a: 
QVC places "a greater emphasis on market 
ing now that it's up and running smoothly. 
He said Baxter's consulting expertise wa 
in operations management and that hi 
contributions "have been outstanding, es 
pecially in the areas of operations manage 
ment and cost control.” The goal now fo 
QVC, said Segel, “is to maximize viewer 
ship and customer loyalty.” 


Who combines 
communications industry 


know-how with 
investment banking 
expertise? 


Morgan Stanley 


CABLE TELEVISION 


Continental Cablevision, Inc. 


pending acquisition of 


American Cablesystems Corp. 
$750,300,000 


Star Midwest, Inc. 
pending acquisition of 


North American 
Communications Corp. 


and 
Four Cable Television Systems 


$239,000,000 


$150,000,000 
Cablevision Industries Corporation 


114% Senior Subordinated Debentures 


4.000,000 Shares 
Centel Cable Television Company 
Class A Common Stock 
820% a Share 


$50,000,000 
Star Cablevision Group 


134% Senior Subordinated Debentures 


$47,025.000 
Prime Cable Growth Partners. L.P. 


Partnership Units 


600,000 Units 
Falcon Cable Systems Company, 
a California Limited Partnership 


Price $19!1/,0 Unit 


Continental Cablevision, Inc. 


pending exchange of certain of its 
cellular telephone assets for certain 


cable television assets of 
Providence Journal Company 


Price not disclosed 


Wometco Cable TV, Inc. 
pending acquisition of 
Two Cable Television Systems 


Price not disclosed 


TELEVISION BROADCASTING 


TFBA Limited Partnership 


(а limited partnership formed, in part, 
by Robert M. Bass Group, Inc.) 


acquired 
Taft Broadcasting Company 
$1,450,000,000 


Six Television Stations 
of Storer Communications, Inc. 


acquired by 
SCI Television, Ine. 
$1,300.000,000 


$400,000,000 
CBS Inc. 


5% Convertible Subordinated Debentures 


WTVJ-TV 
(Miami. FL) 
of Wometco Broadcasting 
Company, Inc. 
acquired by 
GE Property Management Co. 
(subsidiary of General Electric Company) 


$270,000,000 


$110,000,000 
Tak Communications, Inc. 
$80,000,000 
Senior Secured Financing 
$20,000,000 
Subordinated Notes 


$10,000,000 
Common Equity 


WTVG-TV, 
(Toledo. OH) 
of Storer Communications, Inc. 


acquired by 
Toledo Television, Inc. 
$65,000,000 


Four Television Stations of 
Clay Communications Investors 


acquired by 
Price Communications Corporation 
$60,000,000 


$60,000,000 
Outlet Broadcasting, Inc. 


131596 Senior Subordinated Notes 


Tak Communications, Inc. 
acquired 
KITV-TV 
(Honolulu, HI) 


$50,000,000 


WLOS-TV 
(Asheville, NC) 
of Wometco Broadcasting 
Company, Inc. 
aequired by 
AMC of Delaware. Inc 
(an affiliate of Anchor Media, Ltd.) 


$50,000.000 


1,350,000 Shares 
Outlet Communications, Inc. 


Common Stock 
Price $11%a Share 


WPHL-TV 
я (Philadelphia, РА) 
of Providence Journal Company 


pending acquisition by 
Tuft Broadcasting Company 


Price not disclosed 


RADIO BROADCASTING 


Seven Radio Stations 
of Price Communications 
Corporation 


acquired by 
Fasribont Broadcasting, Ine. 


$120.000,000 
(in cash and notes} 


Tak Communications, Ine. 
acquired 
WUSL-FM 
(Philudelphia, PA) 


$32,000.000 


WASH-FM 
(Washington, DC) 


of Metropolitan Broadcasting 
Corporation 


acquired by 
Outlet Broadcasting, Ine. 
$29,250,000 


DKM Broadcasting Corporation 
pending acquisition by 
Summit Communications, Ine. 


Price not disclosed 


WIP-AM 
(Philadelphia, PA) 


of Metropolitan Broadcasting 
Corporation 


acquired by 
Spectacor Broadcasting L.P 


Price not disclosed 


TranSales, Inc. 


(an affiliate of The United Stations 
Companies) 


acquired a beneficial equity interest in 


StarGroup Communications. Ine. 


Price not disclosed 


1 жі 


PUBLISHING | SERVICES 


JWT Group, Inc. 
acquired by 
WPP Group plc 
$566,000,000 


Bell & Howell Company 
pending acquisition by 


BHW Acquisition Corp. 
$678,400,000 


Reuters Holdings PLC 


$100,000,000 acquired 


Instinet Corporation 
9106,500,000 


CELLULAR | 


The Cellular Telephone апа 
Paging Operations of 
Metromedia Ine. 
acquired by 


Southwestern Bell Corporation 
$1, 197,000,000 


Pulitzer Publishing Company 


8.8% Senior Notes due 1997 


Four Newspapers of 
Clay Communications Investors 


acquired by 
Thomson Newspapers Limited 


Price not disclosed 


| ENTERTAINMENT | 21 


$300,000,000 
MCA Inc. 


Detroit Regional Cellular 
Telephone Companies 
acquired by 
Рас Та! Personal Communications 
(division of Pacific Telesis Group) 


$3 16,000,000 


5%% Convertible Subordinated Debentures 


Theatre Assets and related 
Real Estate of The Litchfield 
Company of South Carolina, Inc. 


acquired by 
United Artists Communications. Inc. 
$93,000,000 


13,050,000 Shares 


McCaw Cellular Communications 
Class A Common Stock 
Price $213; a Share 


Communications companies have very specialized needs. 

And Morgan Stanley's Communications Group provides clients in the 
communications industry with a special resource—a team of more than a 
dozen seasoned investment bankers who work full time with media companies. 

This year, the Communications Group was involved in mergers and acqui- 
sition transactions worth more than $7.2 billion. In addition, they helped their 
clients raise more than $1.6 billion in capital. 

From mergers and acquisitions to finaneings and corporate restruc- 
turings, Morgan Staniey's Communications Group delivers the combination | 
of investment banking expertise and communications industry know-how its | 
clients need. 


MORGAN STANLEY 


24 hours of talk available for AM's 


Sun Radio Network's new satellite д 
service is billed as way to 
fully automated operation 


AM station operators now have a 24-hour 
national talk/information = programing 
alternative. 

Beginning today (Jan. 4), the Sun Radio 
Network, a Tampa, Fla.-based radio pro- 
gram supplier, is launching a seven-day, 
“around-the-clock” bartered talk service 
originating from Federal Broadcasting’s 
WMCA(AM) New York and Sun Radio’s 
Tampa facility. The personality lineup in- 
cludes veteran broadcasters Sonny Bloch 
and Barry Farber (both of whom broadcast 
their network programs from the WMCA stu- 
dios) and Chuck Harder, president and 
founder of the network, who hosts his own 
consumer/legal advice show, For The Peo- 
ple, from Florida. All three personalities can 
be heard locally in New York over WMCA. 
(Bloch and Farber once formed the nucleus 
of a short-lived nighttime talk program ser- 
vice, American Radio Network ["Riding 


Harder 


TODAY, YOU NEED THE 
COMPANY THAT KNOWS 
RESEARCH AND RADIO 


Mark Kassof and his 
associates have conducted 
research and devised the 
winning strategies for some 
of the biggest "success 
stories" in North 
American radio. 


Find out what we can 
do for your station. 
Call us at 

313-662-5700. 


527 E. Liberty, Suite 201 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48104 
313-662-5700 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
120 


Gain," May 26, 1986], which has no con- 
nection to the new Sun Radio Network). 
Among the other personalities hosting pro- 
grams over Sun Radio is psychologist Dr. 
Bob Moore. In addition, the Sun Radio 
Network was scheduled to air the television 
audio feed of Phil Donahue's syndicated 
one-hour TV talk show each weekday, start- 
ing today at 4 p.m. NYT. 

*We continue to negotiate with personal- 
ities [to join Sun Radio]. Some of them are 
stars from the old radio and television 
days,” said Harder, who would not be more 
specific. 

Harder also said that Sun Radio is putting 
together a daily, one-hour program originat- 
ing from Las Vegas. The proposed show, 
which has the working title of Star Talk, 
would feature celebrity interviews. 

Harder, a Tampa radio personality who 
operated a radio and television production 
firm there for many years called H&H Pro- 
ductions, told BROADCASTING that Sun Ra- 
dio, through an arrangement with UPI, 1s 
redistributing UPI Radio Network news, 
sports and business reports to Sun network 
affiliates as part of Sun’s continuous 
programing. 

According to Harder, Sun Radio will re- 
tain four minutes per hour of advertising 
time while local stations get eight minutes. 
Sun Radio’s initial advertising thrust is di- 
rect response. 

The foundation of the new 24-hour ser- 
vice was set last March when Harder’s For 
The People series was put into syndication. 
In November, Harder broadened the talk 
service schedule to 6 p.m.-midnight and 
then to 6 p.m.-6 a.m., all Eastern time, the 
following month. 

The new full-service talk network is being 
distributed via three satellites: Westar IV, 
Galaxy II and Satcom I-R—the last during 
the afternoon and evening hours. “We are 
filling a niche for the small-market AM 
broadcaster,” said Harder. (While many of 
Sun Radio’s affiliates are in small markets, 
some are in secondary, medium and major 
markets as well.) “A lot of these AM sta- 
tions were dark. They are now coming back 
on the air with us,” claimed Harder. “The 
service will allow AM operators to totally 
automate their Stations,” he added. 

As of Dec. 28, Sun Radio had 71 affili 
ates, 17 of which plan to take most or all o 
Sun Radio’s expanded program schedule 
Among the full-time affiliates are KTXO(AM 
Sherman, Tex.; wYIC(AM) Noblesville, Ind 
(Indianapolis); KVSD(AM) Vista, Calif. (Sar 
Diego), and KMDK(AM) Denver. 

Other national talk programing service; 
for radio, also primarily designed for AN 
outlets, include ABC Talkradio, NBC Talk 
net, Mutual PM’s nighttime talk agenda o 
Dr. Toni Grant and Larry King and Associat 


ed Press's weekend talk programs, which 
includes the Ed Busch Show. o 


Slow growth 
seen for radio 
this year 


In memo to members, RAB 
head tells radio to keep weather 
eye on consumer spending levels 


In the wake of the Oct. 19 stock market 
crash, radio executives need to keep close 
tabs on consumer spending behavior in 1988 
to assess potential advertising opportunities 
for their respective stations and companies, 
particularly on the local level. 

That was the underlying message of the 
Radio Advertising Bureau's 1988 economic 
outlook memorandum from Bill Stakelin, 
RAB president & CEO. (An upward or down- 
ward movement in local consumer spending, 
according to RAB, correlates directly to 
broadcast advertising expenditures). 

Short-term consumer reaction to the stock 
market plunge has been “negative,” said 
Stakelin. However, that reaction “has not 
been large enough to suggest any major 
spending retrenchment,” Stakelin’s memo- 
randum said. The memorandum was sent to 
association members in December, prior to 
any analysis of Christmas sales activity. 

Any initial consumer cutbacks in 1988 are 


most likely to occur first among the "discre- 
tionary" and "high ticket" items, "both of 
which have enjoyed significant unit growth 
in recent years," said Stakelin. But Stakelin 
noted that consumers "still don't know what 
the stock market crash means for them." 

Said Stakelin: "While 'extraordinary' po- 
litical and sports events [presidential elec- 
tion and Olympics] will add to radio coffers, 
consumer spending powers retail advertis- 
ing, which accounts for upward of 7096 of 
our industry's revenues. Therefore, careful 
attention to consumer confidence levels and 
spending patterns.. ..1$ our best early warn- 
ing system.’ 

The RAB president is forecasting local 
spot advertising throughout the industry to 
be "weak in the first half of the year in 
reaction to a pervasive ‘wait and see’ atti- 
tude" among advertisers regarding the econ- 
omy and consumer spending. Local adver- 
tising sales will "strengthen" during the 
second half of 1988 and remain "relatively 
strong" through 1989, Stakelin predicted. 

Meanwhile, Stakelin is anticipating a “di- 
version” of advertising funds by national 
advertisers, particularly after a 1 strong up- 


Stakelin 


front TV buying season this past year, to 
“more efficient media” in 1988. Such a 
move could translate into added national 
{including network) radio expenditures. 

Overall, RAB is expecting total radio sales 
revenues to perform better in 1988 than in 
1987. Breaking down the specific projections 
for radio's three main advertising segments, 
RAB is estimating national spot to increase by 
5.3% over its 1987 mark, network radio to 
grow by 5.596 (as previously reported, both 
segments are projected to finish 2% down in 
1987) and local spot to rise by 7.596. (Local 
spot is estimated to have risen 6.3% in 1987). 
Total radio revenues for 1988 should approach 
the $8 billion mark. 

Among the key advertising areas for radio 
executives to watch in 1988, according to 
Stakelin, are car dealers, mobile home deal- 
ers, hardware stores, jewelry stores, appli- 
ance dealers and camera supply stores, all of 
which sell high-ticket merchandise requir- 
ing "substantial consumer confidence" to 
maintain a brisk sales volume. 

"Businesses and individuals will change 
spending plans in 1988 to reflect perceptions 
in changes of wealth created by a rising or 
falling stock market," Stakelin said. "The 
market's recent fall," he concluded, "should 
produce a slow period of [economic] growth 
in the first half of 1988, although real gross 
national product and personal consumption 
will probably experience a net increase dur- 
ing the course of 1988." (RAB is predicting 
1988 consumer spending patterns to be 
about the same as 1987 with growth of ae 
or less.) 


Tie UNIVER SLT 
OF CHICAGO 
ANNOUNCES THE 


illiam 

enton 
ellowships in 
roadcast 
ournalism 


1988-89 


To receive a brochure and application 
form, mail this coupon to: Director, 
William Benton Fellowships, 

The University of Chicago, 

5737 University Ave., 

Chicago, IL 60637. 


The William Benton Fellowship Program at The University of Chica- 
go, now entering its sixth year, provides a unique opportunity for 
professionals—television and radio reporters, news executives, 
producers, writers—to expand their expertise on essential issues, free 
from deadline pressure. The Program is sponsored by the William Ben- 
ton Foundation. 

Each Fellow works with a faculty adviser to develop an individual- 
ized academic program of course work in such fields as law, econom- 
ics, religion, and public policy. The Fellows participate in a weekly 
seminar dealing with such fundamentals as First Amendment issues. 
They also meet and exchange ideas with national and international lead- 
ers in media, government, business, education, and other fields of public 
policy. 

Stipends are normally equivalent to full-time salary for the six-month 
period of the Fellowship. The Foundation covers tuition and travel costs. 
University personnel assist with local arrangements for Fellows and their 
families. 

The application deadline is March 7. Fellows will be notified by 
June 1. The 1988-89 Program begins September 19, 1988. 


PLEASE PRINT 
NAME TOTAL YEARS OF PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 
TITLE STATION/NETWORK 


ADDRESS TELEPHONE 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


Country radio convergence 


Finishing touches are being put on the 19th 
annual Country Radio Seminar, which will 
present an agenda featuring three long- 
form "mini-seminars" and 15 panel discus- 
sions, covering all aspects of station oper- 
ations. The seminar is scheduled for Feb. 


| Put Your Message Before 
H Country Radio's Top 
Decision Makers At 


Couey RADIO 


EMNAR'88 


FEBRUARY 11 - 13, 1988 
NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE 


11-13 at Nashville's Opryland hotel. The 
Country Radio Broadcasters—the sponsor 
and organizer of the three-day event —ex- 
pects an attendance of approximately 1,000 
country radio and music executives and 
program suppliers. (The CRS began in 1970 
with 43 paid registrants.) 

Among the major speakers slated to ad- 
dress the attendees are Bill Stakelin, Radio 
Advertising Bureau president and chief ex- 
ecutive officer; John Parikhal, Joint Com- 
munications chief executive officer; Dr. 
Lynn Weiss, author/psychotherapist and 


RidlinmgiGiaim 


KLIF(AM) Dallas talk show host, and country 
music performers Kenny Rogers and Charlie 
Daniels. Rogers and Daniels will deliver the 
opening and closing remarks, respectively. 
Additionally, for the fifth consecutive year, 
The Country Music Association will spon- 
sor Music Industry Professional Seminars 
(MIPS) during the meeting. 

Registration fee for the 1988 CRS is $349. 
(An early registration fee of $279 per person 
was in effect until today [Jan. 4].) This 
years theme is  "Country—America's 
Music." 


History lesson 


Syndicate It Productions, producer of black 
radio and television programs, Burbank, Ca- 
lif., is again offering its special radio series 
for February, Black History Month. The 
shows, Black History Notes, Black Women: A 
Portrait of Dignity, both of which are 90- 
second vignettes, and the 24-hour Story of a 
People, which stations can run in one-hour 
increments, are scheduled to begin airing 
Feb. 1. More than 300 stations are expected 
to clear the broadcasts. 


ChangingaHands 


WTTS(FM) Bloomington, Ind. O Sold by 
Sarkes Tarzian Inc. to Indiana Radio пс for 
$5,250,000. Seller is principally owned by 
Thomas Tarzian and family. It also owns 
KTVN(TV) Reno; WRCB-TV Chattanooga, 
Tenn., and WwAJKFM) Fort Wayne, and 
WGTC(AM) Bloomington, both Indiana, and 
is buying WBWB(FM) Bloomington (See be- 
low). Buyer is principally owned by Albert 
J. Kaneb. It also Owns WHLI(AM)-WKJY(FM) 
Hempstead, N.Y.; wGKX(FM) Memphis; 
KSSN(FM) Little Rock, Ark.; WSLR(AM)- 


MEDIA CAPITAL, INC. 


(Thomas J. Buono, P. Richard Zitelman and 
Michael Hesser, Principals) 


has acquired 


WJYL (FM) 
Jeffersontown (Louisville), KY 


for 


$1,700,000 


from 


INTER URBAN BROADCASTING OF LOUISVILLE 


(Thomas P. Lewis, Chairman and 


I N C OR 


James J. Hutchinson, Jr., President) 


We are pleased to have served as | 
broker in this transaction. 


BLACKBURNGCOMPANY 


P O RAT 


E D 


WASHINGTON, DC. 20036 
1100 Connecticut Ave., NW 
(202) 331-9270 


300 Colony Square 
(404) 892-4655 


Media Brokers ё Appraisers Since 1947 
ATLANTA, GA 30361 


CHICAGO, IL 60601 
333 N. Michigan Ave. 
(312) 346-6460 


BEVERLY HILLS, CA 90212 
9465 Wilshire Blvd. 
(213) 274-8151 


|| 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
122 


WKDD(FM) Akron, Ohio, and WHOM(FM) 
Mount Washington, N.H. WTTS is on 92.3 
mhz with 37 kw and antenna 1,090 feet 
above average terrain. 


WBWB(FM) Bloomington, Ind. O Sold by 
Indiana Communications Inc. to Sarkes Tar- 
zian Inc. for $3.5 million. Seller is headed 
by Rolland Johnson. It has no other broad- 
cast interests. Buyer is selling WTTS(FM) 
Bloomington, Ind. (see above). WBWB is on 
96.7 mhz with 3 kw and antenna 280 feet 
above average terrain. 


WSOR(FM) Fort Myers, Fla. O Sold by 
Riverside Baptist Church to Daytona Group 
of Florida Inc. for $2.6 million. Seller is 
headed by Sanford Williams and has no 
other broadcast interests. Buyer is owned by 
Carl Tutera and Norman Drubner. Drubner 
Owns WNLC(AM)-WTYD(FM) New London, 
Conn., and WNFI(FM) Palatka, WPAP(FM) Pa- 
nama City and WCOA(AM)-WJLQ(FM) Pensa- 
cola, all Florida, and, with Tutera, owns 
KRIX(FM) Brownsville, Tex., KSLM(AM)- 
KXYQ(FM) Salem, Ore., and КІУА(АМ) Cor- 
rales and KIVA(FM) Santa Fe, both New 
Mexico. Drubner also has interest in 
KRGE(AM) Weslaco, Tex., and KIKO(AM) Mi- 
ami and KEYX(FM) Globe, both Arizona. 
WsoR is on 95.3 mhz with 3 kw and antenna 
328 feet above average terrain. 


KDKS-FM Benton, La. O Sold by Benton 
Broadcasting Corp. to The Dowe Co. for $2 
million. Seller is principally owned by Hen- 
ry Cotton, who has no other broadcast inter- 
ests. Buyer is owned by Kenneth Dowe, and 
his wife, Dorothy, who also own KRLB-AM- 
FM Lubbock, Tex. KDKS-FM is on 92.1 mhz 
with 3 kw and antenna 300 feet above aver- 
age terrain. 


CABLE 


Systems serving Athens and Scottsboro, 
both Alabama; Commerce, Dalton and Jef: 
ferson, all Georgia; Lansing, Marquette 
and New Albin, aii lowa; Jay, Long Lake. 
Plattsburgh and Westport, all New York: 
Charlestown, Peterborough and Walpole 
all New Hampshire; Londonderry, Perkins 
ville, Reading, Springfield, Windsor anc 
Woodstock, all Vermont, and Burlington 
De Soto, Ferryville, Guys Mills, La Farge 


Mauston, Monroe, Prairie du Chien, Read- 
stown, Soldiers Grove, Viola and Viroqua, 
all Wisconsin О Sold by James Communi- 
cations Inc. to First Carolina Cable TV L.F. 
for estimated $170 million-180 million. 
Seller is Bloomfield Hills, Mich.-based 
MSO headed by William R. James, former 


Y 


president of Cable TV division of Capital 
Cities Communications Inc. It has no other 
cable interests. Buyer is newly formed part- 
nership headed by E.B. Chester and other 
former principals of First Carolina Commu- 

nications Inc., that was earlier sold to Cooke 


Cablevision Inc. Systems pass approximate- 


3 135,000 homes with 97,000 subscribers. 
roker: Waller Capital’ Corp. 


For other proposed and approved sales 
see “For the уже. page 120. 


1 


Presidential candidate takes 
issue with journalistic practices; 
some journalists comment, rebut 


Gary Hart’s resurrection as a candidate for 
the Democratic presidential nomination has, 
if nothing else, focused renewed attention 
on the media’s role in presidential politics. 
His battle cry of "Let the people decide,” in 
announcing the renewal of his candidacy, 
last month, seemed to lump “the media” 
with the party “bosses” as among the obsta- 
cles blocking his path to the prize he seeks. 
And in a speech at Yale in November, later 
published in The Washington Post, he spoke 
of a media filter that blocks the passage of 
complex solutions to tough problems. It was 
no wonder, һе said, “that an age of television 
‘sound bites’ produces bite-sized policies.” 

There are some in television who ac- 
knowledge its shortcomings as a purveyor of 
news. But they also argue it is basically fair 
and thorough in its coverage. And if anyone 
would be likely to support that proposition, 
at least in these first few weeks of the 
renewed Hart campaign, it would have to be 
the former senator himself. For while in the 
unorthodox campaign he promised, and is 
delivering, the Hart forces are producing no 
television commercials, Hart is showing up 
all over the television dial for protracted 
interviews. He is not doing print interviews, 
he told the Denver Post, in refusing another 
in a long series of requests. “I feel I’ve been 
treated unfairly. I’m just doing television 
interviews.” 

And he has been successful thus far. He 
was on a special one-hour edition of ABC's 
Nightline on the night he announced his 
reentry, on Dec. 15. The next night, he was 
on MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour, answering 
Jim Lehrer's questions in a 17-minute seg- 
ment. The following Sunday, he was on 
CBS's 60 Minutes. And оп Dec. 26 he was 
interviewed on CNN's Newsmakers Satur- 
day, a 30-minute program that is transmitted 
twice that day. What’s more, he has even 
had some success in controlling the inter- 
view: He told Lehrer he would refuse to 
answer questions about Donna Rice— I've 
spoken endlessly about my personal life, 
and I don't expect to talk any more about it,” 
he said. He made the same point regarding 
the Miami model in agreeing to appear on 60 
Minutes. 

Hart had abandoned' his campaign in the 


spring because of the Donna Rice episode. 
He said he found reporters more interested 
in his "character" than in his "ideas"—and 
he continues to fault them for that. "To keep 
or capture a worried or confused reader or 


viewer," he said in his speech at Yale, “sex is 
often more expedient than seriousness." So 
his aim, on reentry, he said in one print 
interview he did grant—to David Yepsen of 
The Des Moines Register—was to get past 
that media "filter" that other prominent po- 
litical leaders have found to be a problem— 
Richard Nixon, for one—and "make direct 
contact with the voters." 

How long will Hart continue to benefit 
from such generous gobs of free media? Not 
long, at least not in the form those inter- 
views have taken, in the view of Lester 
Crystal, executive producer of the MacNeil/ 
Lehrer NewsHour. The "initial burst" of 
attention shown him will not last, Crystal 
said. "The Democratic story between now 
and Iowa [Feb. 8] will be how Hart will do 


Cash Flow 


$220,000,000 


The Ted Hepburn Company sold over $220 million in 
radio, television, cable and newspaper properties between 
September '85 and September '87. Each and every one of 
these sales was an all CASH deal. 


When you want the maximum amount for your property 
and you want it in CASH call— 


THE Acquisition Specialists 


TED IPB 
COMPANY. 


ЕГЕ 


TER 7, IK А ON. 


Todd Бед burn, Vice-President 


325 Gode Ra Maas Beach, Florida 33480 PO Box 4240 1, Cincinnati, Ohio 45242 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
123 


(513) 791-8730 


in relation to the other Democrats in the 
contest, and they to him.’ 

Hart's impatience with questions about 
his personal life does not sit well with those 
in the media, not even with those who 
simply have a professional interest in the 
media's performance. Hart's complaint is 
“unwarranted,” according to John Dear- 
dourff, a political consultant who generally 
serves Republican candidates but has no 
client in the current presidential campaign. 
After all, Deardourff said, Hart "threw 
down the gauntlet." Deardourff was refer- 
ring to Hart's challenge to reporters to fol- 
low him if they suspected he was, in fact, 
the womanizer whisperers said he was. The 
challenge appeared in print on the same 
Sunday morning that the Miami Herald 
published its story on Hart's weekend with 
Rice. “Hart’s trying to make the press feel a 
collective sense of guilt for what has hap- 
pened, " said Deardourff. 

Guilt is not what those in the media are 
feeling. Edward Fouhy. who has held key 
posts in the news operations of ABC, CBS 
and NBC and who recently resigned from 
NBC as executive in charge of political 
coverage, regards the media's concern with 
the "character" issue as justified. “Тһе peo- 
ple have every right to be interested in that 
issue if they are going to entrust their lives to 
the man," he said. Hal Bruno, political 
director of ABC News in Washington, made 
a similar point. ‘‘For voters to listen to any 
candidate, that candidate must in the begin- 
ning establish his credentials, including his 
character, his intelligence and his common 


sense." He also said Hart was engaging in 
the kind of strategy employed by political 
figures in trouble who try to divert attention 
from themselves to the media: "Nixon tried 
it with Watergate and Reagan tried it with 
the Iran/contra story." 

One news executive who appeared par- 
ticularly stung by Hart's comments was Ed 
Turner, CNN's senior vice president. Hart, 
in his Yale address, had referred to CNN, 
along with USA Today, as representing “so- 
phisticated news packaging. not news col- 
lection." And Turner was miffed not only 
because CNN had provided live coverage of 
Hart on a number of occasions, including 
coverage of speeches before he dropped out 
of the race. 

Turner said it was Hart's idea that he 
appear on Newsmakers Saturday. What's 
more, Turner said, he accepted Hart's condi- 
tion that he be interviewed live in Denver; 
the program originates in Washington. Turn- 
er also disclosed that, in the months Hart 
was out of the race, a representative had 
asked if CNN would be interested in retain- 
ing Hart to moderate a program on world 
affairs. "So I'm puzzled that he would con- 
sider CNN merely a packager of news," said 
Turner. 

Hart, in his Yale address, insisted he was 
not engaged in press bashing. Yet the theme 
running through his remarks was keyed to 
the charge that the “media filter...demands 
simplicity, rewards tactics and is transfixed 
by personality." Not true, say those respon- 
sible for network news. “You have to look at 
network coverage in its totality,” said Tim 


John J. Long, Jr. 


has agreed to assign the stock 
of Media Concepts, Inc. 


WJJR(FM) 


Rutland, VT 


for 
$3,950,000 


Howard Schrott & Robert Beacham 


of Caravelle Broadcast Group 


AMERICOM 


— m 


Radio Station Brokerage & Financing 


1130 Connecticut Avenue, N.W. / Suite 500 / Washington, DC 20036 / (202) 737-9000 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
15A 


Russert, NBC News vice president. It is not 
only the short pieces on the evening news 
programs. “Pieces on the Today show run 
six or seven minutes," he said. “And inter- 
views on Meet the Press run 30 minutes." 

And while he agreed that the sound bites 
aired on news programs generally do not 
exceed 30 seconds. he noted that "Hart and 
other candidates have spent millions to put 
30-second commercials on the air If it 
works in paid media," Russert said, “why 
not in free media?" Besides, he said, "Hart 
is a master of sound bites: ‘I’m back in the 
race.’ ‘Let the people decide.’ " 

For all of that, Hart’s criticisms are not 
universally dismissed. 

Richard M. Cohen, the producer in 
charge of political coverage for CBS News, 
said the criticisms of television “are well 
taken” (though he does not know how the 
shortcomings he is willing to concede bear 
on the character issue.) “When you com- 
press the world into 22 minutes [the amount 
of time devoted to news in an evening news- 
cast] you lose a lot,” he said. “Twenty-two 
minutes is just a starting point.” 

And Russert did not want to be portrayed 
as simply rejecting Hart’s position. Hart’s 
remarks, Russert said, contributed to a “dia- 
logue” on the role of the media. “We have to 
spend more time examining what we do and 
why,” he said. And Hart can learn from the 
dialogue what we до and why we do it.” O 


Academicians find 
disaster coverage, 


well, disasterous 


U. of Pa. examinations of print and 
broadcast reporting claim there is 
not enough evaluation of problems; 
emphasis put on ‘sky is falling’ angle 


The merits and, more pointedly, the short- 
comings of broadcast and print news cover- 
age of disasters are featured in a University 
of Pennsylvania 1987 symposium, “Com- 
municating Risk: The Media and the Pub- 
lic,” published in the latest edition of Ox- 
ford University Press’s "Journal of 
Communication." The bottom line: “Virtu- 
ally all news stories mentioned harms asso- 
ciated with a particular hazard...virtually 
none gave readers a way of assessing the 
risk.” 

Among the six studies presented at the 
symposium, these conclusions prevail: 
Newsworthiness tends to be judged on the 
isolation and rarity, as well as the serious- 
ness, of an event—yet heavy coverage of 
stories perceived by media as newsworthy 
often creates a ‘sky is falling’ public percep- 
tion of the event itself; journalists tend to 
sacrifice the larger context of a story for the 
sake of immediacy and drama, and “worst- 
case scenario-spinning" results in public 
misperceptions about the frequency and 
magnitude of a particular disaster. 

In discussing the results of their studies, 


Why do these radio station owners 
work with Americom? 


“Ке have now bought or sold over $40,000,000 worth of radio stations 
with Americom in the last 12 months. 

When they came to us with a buyer for our Albany and Providence radio 
stations. we took them seriously, and we are glad we did. 

It wasn't just the more than fair price they brought us, but Americom's 
explanation of our stations' values was verv impressive to our Board of 
Directors and was a very important factor in our decision to sell the 
properties. 

From our experience, they are the best in the business." 


Morton I. Hamburg 
President & COO 
JAG Communications, Inc. 


“Recently, I completed a complex 
three-party, like-kind exchange of 
assets through Americom. We 
broke much new ground with this 
type of broadcast sale. Americom 
stayed right on top of things, 
providing solutions to difficult 
problems. At closing, it was a 
great deal for all parties involved. 
І applaud Americom's innovative 
nature and professional attitude." 


George Silverman 
President, Sunshine Group 
Broadcasting 


We sold our six-station group through Americom. They found a 
potential buyer who was willing to pay top dollar and had the financial 
means to do it. They then worked hard to find me another group to pur- 
chase. They were successful, and we recently closed on a three-station 
group acquisition. 

Their creativity in structuring sound financial deals and their ability to 
explain why a station has a certain value sets them apart. It's a pleasure to 
work with them. 


Jim Glassman 
Community Service Radio, Inc. 


AMERICOM 


Radio Station Brokerage & Financing 


1130 Connecticut Avenue, N.W. / Suite 500 / Washington, DC 20036 ү (202) 737-9000 


the various authors seldom differentiate be- 
tween print and broadcast news, but one 
report observes, "Although one might ex- 
pect television, subject to greater constraints 
of time, to include fewer details about risks, 
TV is not much worse in this regard than 
either newspapers or news weeklies...when 
we analyze reporting practices separately by 
media type, we find virtually no significant 
differences among them." But, says that 
same study: "Reporting Hazards: Their 
Benefits and Costs," presented by Eleanor 
Singer and Phyllis Endreny, “None of the 
media is very informative in providing in- 
formation about risk." Singer, Gannett Cen- 
ter for Media Studies senior fellow, and 
Endreny, University of Illinois communica- 
tions professor, monitored 15 media outlets, 
including three major television evening 
news programs (ABC, CBS and NBC) and 
one local TV news broadcast, between Sept. 
] and Dec. 31, 1984. (Four weeks in late 
1960 were also studied for comparison; few 
changes, said their report, were discovered 
between the periods.) 

In 1984, only 596 of hazard stories includ- 
ed information about the annual mortality 
associated with the hazard; only 24.2% of 
the stories included information about the 
size of the population at risk; and in stories 
concerning issues like contact sports, drug 
side effects and complex technologies, such 
as organ transplants, 97% mentioned associ- 
ated costs or harms and only 3296 mentioned 
benefits. Benefits also lost out to harms in 
coverage of the abortion issue, with virtual- 
ly all stories devoting space to harms to the 
fetus, none mentioning risks for the mother 
while virtually none of them covered any 
benefits. 

"Information provided by the media 
about risks," said Singer and Endreny, "is 
woefully inadequate...they fail to put such 
risks in perspective, [or] to mention the ratio 
of benefits to costs, and the implied ratio— 
based on the relative space given to harms 
and to benefits—was heavily weighted on 
the side of harm." 

Three other symposium studies focus on 
coverage of nuclear power accidents. David 
M. Rubin's "How the News Media Reported 
on Three Mile Island and Chernobyl," al- 
though damning Soviet and U.S. officials 
and emphasizing the media's reliance on 
authority sources who wish to keep their 
jobs and to avoid creating panic, also criti- 
cizes journalists for their tendency to seek 
the most dramatic answers. "The constant 
stream of ‘what if’ questions about the like- 
lihood of meltdown," said Rubin, co-direc- 
tor of the Center for War, Peace and the 
News Media, "convinced many utility and 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission officials at 
TMI to stop talking to the press altogether." 

The U.S. and Soviet experiences revealed 
a stark contrast between the nation's media 
operations, Rubin says, with Soviet reports 
“late, meager but probably not untrue” and 
Western reports “fast, massive and often 
misleading...." Yet, says Rubin, “the natu- 
ral suspiciousness of the press—at least the 
Western press—is an important counter- 
weight [to inadequate information chan- 
nels].... U.S. journalists have in the main 
never accepted the social reponsibility the- 
ory of the press. They are unwilling to 


assess the long-range effects of their work, 
preferring to ‘print the news and raise hell 
...{with] faith that their audience is capable 
of sorting out conflicting information and 
acting rationally.” 

The two other nuclear accident studies 
also pointed to reticent sources, as well as 
dense jargon, as reasons for less than thor- 
ough coverage. "Reporting on Radiation" by 
journalism professors Sharon Friedman and 
Carole Gorney and research scientist Brenda 
Egolf, concludes that: “Even considering 
the difficulty in obtaining radiation read- 
ings, this [4% of newscasts included read- 
ings] is still a smaller number than one 
would expect.” The third report, “Calculat- 


ing Risk: Radiation and Chernobyl," by 
Robert Peter Gale, who headed the team of 
physicians who treated the Soviet popula- 
tion after Chernobyl, illustrates the impor- 
tance of context with contrasting examples 
of risks from other hazards. Professors Lee 
Wilkins and Philip Patterson, in "Risk Anal- 
ysis and the Construction of News," con- 
clude that journalists often fail to rise above 
their reliance on images and that they attri- 
bute too much responsibility to people for 
their actions and too little to the social and 
environmental constraints shaping those ac- 
tions. "News stories," they say, “generally 
focus on individual events, not on the under- 
lying issues that gave rise to them." ПО 


When you say Greyhound, most people just think buses. But did you know 
that for 25 years Greyhound has been a major business finance company? 


Today, Greyhound Financial helps broadcasters and cable operators 
acquire and refinance their properties. Our Communication Finance 
team, lead by industry veteran Matt Breyne, offers: 


* quick decision making 


• ldan structuring expertise 


* access to a wide range of financing options 


So now, when you want to buy a new property or restructure an existing 
one, think Greyhound—the communications finance people. 


Call Matt Breyne, Communication Finance Group, at 1-800-525-4532 


(or 602-248-2808). 


A Greyhound Company 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


126 


Continued from page 46 


challenge them immediately in court. 

In conjunction with the syndex rulemak- 
ing, the FCC is conducting an inquiry into 
the compulsory copyright license, which 
allows cable systems to carry distant broad- 
cast signals through the payment of semi- 
annual license fees set by the government. 
The FCC has no jurisdiction over the li- 
cense, but its inquiry could result in a rec- 
ommendation to Congress that it eliminate 
the license or revamp it. 

Syndex is not cable's only worry at the 
FCC. The industry is also concerned about 
the FCC's apparent proclivity toward loos- 
ening restraints on telephone companies to 
allow them to compete in the cable business. 

That proclivity manifested itself clearly 
last summer when the agency started an 
inquiry on whether it should continue its ban 
against allowing telephone companies to 
own cable systems in their telephone service 
areas. The inquiry could lead to an elimina- 
tion of the FCC crossownership prohibition 
and a recommendation that Congress repeal 
the redundant one contained in the Cable 
Communications Policy Act of 1984. 

There is some sentiment on Capitol Hill 
that cable needs competition and that allow- 
ing the telcos in may be the way to provide 
it. But even if Congress fails to lift its ban, 
the FCC could bend its rules to allow the 
telcos to get more deeply into cable. For 
instance, as the telcos suggested in their 
comments, the FCC could redefine what 
constitutes "ownership" so that a telco could 
own up to 4946 of a cable company without 
violating the crossownership ban. 

The cable industry is also watching in- 
tently to see whether the FCC permits Gen- 
eral Telephone Company to build a cable 
system in Cerritos, Calif., and lease half the 
capacity to the cable franchisee and half to 
the affiliated GTE Service Corp. for the 
development of new services, including 
some sort of pay-per-view video service. 
The cable industry has strongly urged the 
FCC not to permit the arrangement, alleging 
that it would constitute prohibited crossow- 
nership because of the close relationship 
between General and its two proposed 
leasees. 

Also causing cable concern is the Nation- 
al Telecommunications and Information Ad- 


ministration's effort to persuade the FCC to 
challenge the authority of U.S. District 
Court Judge Harold Greene and declare that 
the seven regional Bell operating companies 
may provide so-called "information ser- 
vices," including cable television. Greene 
affirmed the five-year-old prohibition 
against BOC’s offering such services last 
year as part of his oversight of the 1982 
consent decree that settled the Justice De- 
partment’s antitrust suit against AT&T 
through the breakup of AT&T and the cre- 
ation of the seven independent BOC’s. 

The news from the FCC is not all bad for 
cable, The U.S. Court of Appeals in Wash- 
ington struck down the FCC’s must-carry 
Tules as a violation of cable operators’ First 
Amendment rights last month, and the FCC 
is showing little stomach for writing new 
rules that might pass constitutional muster. 
Indeed, the FCC may not even bother to 
press for Supreme Court review. 

Two weeks ago, the FCC asked the court 
of appeals to clarify whether its action en- 
compassed the related A/B switch rules, 
which require cable operators to educate 
subscribers about the switches and to pro- 
vide them to those who are willing to pay for 
them. When attached to the back of TV sets, 
the switches allow subscribers to switch 
easily from off-air to cable reception. FCC 
General Counsel Diane Killory has said the 
FCC would like to preserve some form of 
the rules. While the fate of the rules is being 
determined, the FCC has stayed them, 

Also on remand for the same court, the 
FCC is conducting inquiry to determine 
whether it should impose limits on advertis- 
ing time in commercial programs and 
whether programs based on toys are so- 
called program-length commercials. FCC 
dropped advertising limits on all program- 
ing in 1984, but the court said the FCC 
failed to justify removing limits on chil- 
dren’s advertising. The burden of proof in 
the proceeding is clearly on those advocat- 
ing limits. 

This spring, the FCC will once again take 
up a proposal to reallocate UHF spectrum in 
several markets from broadcasting to land- 
mobile radio. At the urging of broadcasting 
interests, the FCC agreed to hold the pro- 
ceeding in abeyance until the FCC-spon- 
sored Advanced Television Systems Indus- 


try Advisory Committee determines 
whether broadcasters would need additional 
spectrum to broadcast high-definition televi- 
sion in the future. The FCC has set May 17 
as the deadline for the committee report, 

The FCC is expected to send out a letter to 
several broadcasters this month asking them 
to respond to complaints that they have 
violated the FCC’s new, stricter indecency 
standard adopted last April. If, after evaluat- 
ing the responses, the FCC agrees with any 
of the complaintants, it will send warning 
letters to the appropriate stations. 

The FCC last week released an order 
“clarifying” the standard and its implemen- 
tation and establishing midnight-to-6 a.m. 
as a "safe harbor" during which broadcasters 
may air “indecent,” but not “obscene” pro- 
graming. If nothing else, the release of the 
order allows broadcasters who object to the 
standard to move forward with their chal- 
lenge of the standard in court. 

On the ajudicatory front, the FCC hopes it 
can resolve or, at least, come close to resolv- 
ing, the RKO General case, which dates 
back to 1965. In the lastest blow to RKO, 
Administrative Law Judge Edward Kuhl- 
mann found the pioneer broadcaster unfit to 
hold any of its remaining 14 television and 
radio licenses for various infractions of FCC 
rules dating back to the early 1970’s. RKO 
has appealed Judge Kuhlmann's decision to 
the full commission. 

All of RKO's licenses are hung up in 
comparative renewal hearings. RKO has 
reached settlements with competing appli- 
cants and third-party buyers in cases involv- 
ing KHJ(TV) Los Angeles and several radio 
stations. The FCC would like to bring an 
end to the RKO saga by authorizing current 
settlements and encouraging others. But 
such an approach will take some fancy legal 
footwork in light of Kuhlmann's decision. 

The FCC has been spared some work by 
Congress. In the waning days of 1987, Con- 
gress attached language to a $600-billion 
spending bill prohibiting the FCC from con- 
tinuing its inquiry into the constitutionality 
of policies designed to increase minority and 
female ownership of broadcast properties 
and from opening any proceedings to repeal 
or modify its prohibition against common 
ownership of broadcast stations and news- 
papers in the same market. [s] 


— 


"Datebook" continues from page 31. 
hotel, Dallas. Information: (202) 429-5420. 


March 15—/nternational Radio and Television Soci- 
ety néwsmaker luncheon. Waldorf-Astoria, New York. 


March 15-16—American Advertising Federation 
spring government affairs conference, Willard hotel, 
Washington. 


March 17-20—Alpha Epsilon Rho, National Broad- 
casting Society, national convention. Sheraton Center, 
New York. 


March 20-24—National Computer Graphics Associ- 
ation conference and exposition. Anaheim Convention 
Center, Anaheim, Calif. 


March 21-23—Satellite Broadcasting and Communi- 
cation Association trade show Bally's, Las Vegas. 
Information: (800) 654-9276. 


March 22—13th annual Commendation Awards cere- 
mony, sponsored by American Women in Radio and 
Television. Waldorf-Astoria, New York. Information: 
(202) 429-5102. 


а March 23-24—iilinois Broadcasters Association 
spring convention and Silver Dome awards presenta- 


tion. Ramada, Springfield. Ill. 


March 25-26—Oklahoma Associated Press Broad- 
casters Association annual convention. Marriott, Okla- 
homa City 


= 
April 


ш April 7- Саксиз for Producers, Writers and Direc- 
tors general membership meeting. Chasen's, Los An- 
geles. Information: (213) 652-0222. 


April 8-10—Broadeast Education Association con- 
vention. Las Vegas. information: (202) 429-5355. 


April 9-12—Nationai Association of Broadcasters 
66th annual Convention, international exposition and 
42d annual broadcast engineering conference. Las 
Vegas Convention Center, Las Vegas. 


April 10-12—Cabletelevision Advertising Bureau sev- 
еп annual conference. Waldorf-Astoria, New York. 


April 10-12—Public television annual membership 
meeting of Publie Broadcasting Service and National 
Association of Public Television Stations. Marriott 
Crystal Gateway, Arlington, Va. Information: (202) 739- 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
127 


5082. 


April 13—“Calling the Shots: Producing and Directing 
in Washington,” session sponsored by American 
Women in Radio and Television, Washington chapter. 
National Association of Broadcasters, Washington. In- 
formation: (202) 659-3494. 


April 14—/nternational Radio and Television Society 
newsmaker luncheon. Waldorf-Astoria, New York. Infor- 
mation: (212) 867-6650. 


April 14— Presentation of Achievement in Children's 
Television Awards, sponsored by Action for Children's 
Television. Cambridge, Mass. Information: (617) 876- 
6620. 


April 16—20th annual Golden Reel Awards ceremony 
sponsored by International Television Association. 
Caesars Palace, Las Vegas. Information: Kelly J. Bell, 
(214) 869-1112. 


April 18-20—Broadcast Financial Management Asso- 
ciation annual meeting. Hyatt Regency, New Orleans. 
Information: (312) 296-0200. 


April 28-30—7exas Associated Press Broadcasters 
Association annual convention. Hilton hotel, Odessa, 
Tex. 


As compiled by BROADCASTING, Dec. 23 
through Dec. 29 and based on filings, au- 
thorizations and other FCC actions. 


Abbreviations: AFC—Antenna For Communications. 
ALJ—Administrative Law Judge. alt.—alternate. ann.— 
announced. ant.—antenna, aur—aural. aux.—auxiliary. 
ch.—channel. CH—critical hours. chg—change. CP—con- 
struction permit. D—day. DA—directional antenna. Doc— 
Docket. ERP—effective radiated power. HAAT—height 
above average terrain. H&V—horizontal and vertical. 
khz—kilohertz. kw—kilowatts. lic.—license. m or M—me- 
ters. MEOC—maximum expected operation value. mhz— 
megahertz. mi.—miles. mod—modification. N—night. pet 
for recon—petition for reconsideration. PSA—presunrise 
service authority. pwr—power. RC—remote control. S-A— 
Scientific-Atlanta. SH—specified hours. SL—studio loca- 
tion. TL—transmitter location. trans.—transmitter. TPO— 
transmitter power output. U ог unl—unlimited hours. vis.— 
visual. w—watts. *—noncommercial. Six groups of num- 
bers at end of facilities changes items refer to map coordi- 
nates. 1 meter—3.28 feet. 


Ownership Changes 


в WFLN(FM) Philadelphia (BTCH871214GG: 95.7 mhz; 
50 kw; HAAT: 500 ft.) —Seeks assignment of license from 
Franklin Broadcasting Co. to Marlin Ltd Broadcasting Inc. 
for $15 million. Seller is owned by Raymond F. Green. who 
will remain as general manager; his father. Raymond S. 
Green, and Eleanor Smith and family. [t has no other 
broadcast interests. Buyer is Boston-based group of three 
ЕМ principally owned by Howard (Woody) Tanger and 
family. lt also owns WTMI(FM) Miami and WQRS(FM) 
Detroit. Filed Dec. 14. 1987. 


а KDKS-FM Benton. LA (BALH871208HK; 92.1 mhz; 3 
kw; HAAT: 300 ft.)—Seeks assignment of license from 
Benton Broadcasting Corp. to The Dowe Co. (ог $2 million. 
Seller is principally owned by Henry Cotton. who has no 
other broadcast interests. Buyer is owned by Kenneth 
Роме, and his wife Dorothy. who also own KRLB-AM-FM 
Lubbock. TX. Filed Dec. 8, 1987. 


а KAFM-FM Payson. AZ (BALH871209HC: 103.9 mhz: 
1.6 kw: HAAT: 393 ft.}—Seeks assignment of license from 
High Country Broadcasting Corp. to Pleasant Valley Broad- 
casting Corp. for $108.000. Buyer is owned by Jeffrey R. 
Morris. and his wife, Jane, who have no other broadcast 
interests. Filed Dec. 9. 1987. 


в WSOR(FM) For Myers. FL (BALH871209HF; 95.3 
mhz; 3 kw; HAAT: 328 ft.)—Seeks assignment of license 
from Riverside Baptist Church to Daytona Group of Florida 
Inc. for $2.6 million. Seller is headed by Sanford Williams, 
who has no other broadcast interests. Buyer is owned hy 
Carl C. Tutera and Norman 8. Drubner. Drubner owns 
WNLC(AM)-WTYD(FM) New London, CT; WNFI(FM) 


Palatka, WPAP(FM) Panama City, and WCOA(AM)- 
WJLQ(FM) Pensacola. all Florida. and with Tütera. owns 
KRIX(FM) Brownsville, TX. KSLM(AM)-KXYQ(FM) Sa- 
fem, OR, KIVA(AM) Corrales. NM and KIVA(FM) Santa 
Fe, NM. Drubner also has interest in KRGE(AM) Weslaco. 
TX and KIKO(AM) Miami and KEYX(FM) Globe. AZ. 
Filed Dec. 9. 1987. 


€ WITS(FM) Bloomington. IN (BALH871208HJ: 92.3 
mhz; 37 kw; HAAT; 1090 ft.)—Seeks assignment of license 
from Sarkes Tarzian Inc. to Indiana Radio Inc. for 
$5.250.000. Seller is principally owned by Thomas Tarzian. 
and his wife, Patricia. It also owns KTVN(TV) Reno. 
WRCB-TV Chattanooga. WGTC(AM) Bloomington, IN 
and WAJI(FM) Ft. Wayne. IN. Buyer is principally owned 
by Albert J. Kaneb. It also owns WHLI(AM)-WKJY (FM) 
Hempstead. NY; WGKX(FM) Memphis. TN; KSSN(FM) 
Little Rock, AR; WSLR(AM)-WKDD(FM) Akron. OH, 
and WHOM(FM) Mt. Washington, NH. Filed Dec. 8, 1987. 


а WBWB(FM) Bloomington. IN (BALH871208GY; 96.7 
mhz; 3 kw; HAAT: 280 ft.)—Seeks assignment of license 
from Indiana Communications Inc. to Sarkes Tarzian Inc. 
for $3.5 million. Seller is headed by Rolland Johnson. It has 
no other broadcast interests. Buyer is also selling 
кы Bloomington. IN (see above). Filed Dec. 8, 
1987. 


New Stations 


Applications 


в Atwater, СА (BPH871208MD)—H Group Inc. seeks 
92.5 mhz: 3 kw H&V; 100 m. Address: 20445 Johnny Ave., 
Sonora, CA 95370. Principal is owned by H. Randolph 
Holder Jr.. who also owns KVML(AM)-KZSQ(FM) Sono- 
га, СА and WGAU(AM)-WNGC(FM) Athens. GA. Filed 
Dec. 8. 1987. 


в Irwinton, GA (BPH871209MC)—Peachstate Media 
seeks 103.7 mhz; 3 kw H&V; 100 m. Address: 1367 Arlene 
Се. Libum. GA 30247. Principal is owned by Len A. 
Archdeacon. who is also 24% owner of WXZE(AM) Syl- 
vester, GÀ and 2.5% of WLKQ-FM Buford, GA. Filed 
Dec. 9. 1987. 


в Pleasant Hope, МО (BPH871210MF}—Multicom 
Broadcasting, Inc. seeks 95.5 mhz: 50 kw (H&V); 150 m. 
Address: Box 5697. Bryan, TX 77805. Principal is owned 
by Carolyn G. Vance. and her husband, William. who have 
no other broadcast interests. Filed Dec. 10, 1987. 


в Pleasant Hope. МО (BPH871012ME)—Minorities 
Broadcasting Co. of Missouri Inc. seeks 95.5 mhz: 46 kw 
(H&V); 157 m. Address: 3713 Hyway 94 N., St. Charles. 
MO 63301. Principal is owned by William E. White. 
Johnny Roland, and Bettie J. Williams. It has interest in 
KIRL(AM) St. Charles, MO. White has interest in WAP- 
ДАМ) Wetumpka, AL. Roland has interest in KXDW(AM) 
Clayton. MO. Filed Dec. 10, 1987. 


в Laughlin, NV (BPH871214MD)—Rick L. Murphy 
seeks 107.9 mhz; 10 kw H&V: 728 m. Address: PO. Box 
$646, Laughlin N V 87029. Principal has no other broadcast 
interests. Filed Dec. 14. 1987. 


EDWIN TORNBERG 


& COMPANY, 


INC. 


Negotiators 
For The Purchase And Sale Of 
Radio And TV Stations * CATV * Appraisers 


P.O. Box 55298 Washington, D.C. 20011 


(202)291-8700 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
128 


в Marysville. OH (BPH871202)— Charles H. Hutchinson 
and Richard H. Riggs seek 105.7 mhz: 3 kw H&V; 100 m. 
Address: РО. Box 1137. Lima. OH 45802. Principal. 
Charles H. Hutchinson. also has 75% ownership interest in 
FM station in Shawnee. OH. Filed Dec. 14. 1987. 


W Locust Grove. OK (BPH871215MD)—David C. Simp- 
son seeks 100.7 mhz; 3 kw H&V: 100 m. Address: Rte 1, 
Box 341, Fairland. OK 74343. Principal has no other 
broadcast interests. Filed Dec. 15, 1987. 


ш Roseburg. OR (BPED871208MA)—State of Oregon 
acting by and through State Board of Higher Education 
Seeks 91.5 mhz: 2kw H&V; 93 m. Address: P-O. Box 3175, 
Eugene. OR 97403. Principal is state educational institution 
headed by James C. Petersen. Filed Dec. 8, 1987. 


ш San Saba. TX (BPH871215MB)—Armadillo Broad- 
casting Inc. seeks 96.7 mhz: 1.6 kw H&V; 120 m. Address: 
РО. Box 576, San Saba. TX 76877. Principal is owned by 
E.P. Garth, who also owns KBAL(AM) San Saba, TX. 
Filed Dec. 15. 1987. 


Actions 


W Sacramento. CA (BPH871110MO)—Returned app. of 
Kidd Communications for 103.5 mhz: 3 kw H&V; 86 m. 
Address: 4096 Bridge St.. Ste 4. Fair Oaks, CA 95628. 
Principal is owned by Chris Kidd who also owns 50% OF 
KI7TAMLPIV) Fergys Falls. MN and 50% OF 
K28AI(LPTV) Wahpeton, ND. Action Dec. 18. 1987. 


в Beverly Hills, FL (BPH871120MC}—Returned app. of 
Emcee Communications Inc. for 97.1 mhz: 3 kw H&V: 87 
m. Address: P.O. Box 177. Inverness, FL 32651. Principal 
is owned by Christopher M. Moling. who has no other 
broadcast interests. Action Dec. 18. 1987. 


а Newberry. MI (BPH871014MB)—Returned app. of 
Leon B. Van Dam for 97.9 mhz; 50 kw H&V; 352 m. 
Address: South Newberry Ave.. Newberry. MI 49868. Prin- 
cipal has has no other broadcast interests. Action Dec. 18. 
1987. 


в Salamanca, МУ (BPH850625MB}—Granted арр. of 
Altair Communications. Inc. for 98.3 mhz: 0.87 kw H&V, 
183 m. Address: WGGO Radio-Star Route, Salamanca. NY 
14779. Principal is owned by Gary L. Livingstone, who has 
no other broadcast interests. Action Dec. 16, 1987. 


в Madisonville, TX (870330MI)—Returned app. of Texas 
Family Broadcasters for 96.1 mhz: 50 kw H&V: 492 m. 
Address: 111 W. Twilight Ог. Farmington. NM 87401. 
Principal is owned by Jimmie D. Gober, and family. who 
have no other broadcast interests. Action Dec. 16. 1987. 


@ Madisonville, ТХ (870331NZ)— Returned app. of Data 
International for 96.1 mhz: 50 kw H&V; 492 m. Address: 
Carrington & Polk, Centerville. TX 75833. Principal is 
owned by Marilyn S. Ware, who has no other broadcast 
interests. Action Dec. I6, 1987. 


а Madisonville, TX (870330ND)—Returned app. of 
Madison Communications for 96.1 mhz; 50 kw H&V; 500 
m. Address: Р.О. Box 1337, Livingston. TX 77351. Princi- 
pal is owned by Harold J. Haley, who has no other broadcast 
interests. Action Dec, 17, 1987. 


Facilities Changes 


Applications 

AM 

W La Grange, TX, KVLG, 1570 khz—871215-Applica- 
tion for CP to change hours of oper to unltd by adding night 
service with 500 watts; increase day pwr to 1000 watts; 
install DA-2 and make change in ant Sys. 

FM's 

в Rochester, NY, WRUR-FM. 88.5 mhz—871208-Appli- 
cation for CP for new FM educational on freq: 88.5 mhz; 
ERE: 2 kw H&V; HAAT: 70.6 m. H&V. 43 07 20N 77 37 
15W. 

в Childress, TX, KSRW. 95.9 mhz—871208-Application 
for CP to make changes freq: 96.1 mhz: change ERP: 50 kw 
H&V; change HAAT, 145 m. H&V; change antenna height 
supporting Structure. class, and modify licensed main 
facility. 

Actions 

FM's 

@ Key West, FL, WJIR, 90.9 mhz—871217-Application 


(BPED8709151A) granted for CP to make changes TL: 909 
Simonton St, Key West, FL: change HAAT: 36.6 m, H&V 
24 33 07N 81 47 53W. 


W Sterling Heights. МІ. WUGM. 1030 khz—871217- 
Application (BMP870312AL) granted l'or Mod of СР to 
change TL to: 0.37 mi. ESE of the corner of Cass Ave and 
Heydenreich Rd. Mt. Clemens. М1. 42 36 22N 82 54 38W. 


в Brentwood. NY. WXBA. 88.1 mhz—871217-Applica- 
tion (BPED8709281A) granted for CP to make changes TL: 
Sonderling High School. 1st Street and 5th. Ave: change 
HAAT: 29 m. H&V. 40 46 19N 73 15 19%. 


Ш Memphis. WGKX. 105.9 mhz—871216-Application 
(BPH870226IO) granted for CP to change TL: 7192 Ra- 
leigh-LaGrange Rd. Cordova, ТМ; change НА АТ; 302.6 m. 
H&V: and make changes in ant. sys. 35 09 17N 89 49 20W. 


TV 


ш Philadelphia, WYBE, ch. 35—871217-Application 
(BMPET871026KF) granted for Mod of CP 
(BPCT830801KP) to change ERP vis.: 523.6 kw: HAAT: 
931 ft. (283.7 m.} ANT: Andrew C33RVA(DA): TL: E 
Domino Lane. Philadelphia. 40 02 26N 75 14 20W. 


Actions 


Commission Actions 


в FCC reatfirms grant of new FM station to Sunshine 
Broadcasting at Fort Myers Villas. FL—MM Dockets 83- 
1332, 1334 (Report DC-1073. Action in Docket Case) 
Action by commission Dec. 21. 1987 by MO&O (FCC 87- 
392). 

в FCC reinstates David Ortiz's application in comparative 
wearing for FM channel 279b at Lajas. PR—MM Docket 86- 
510 (Report DC-1072. Action in Docket Case). Action hy 
zommission Dec. 21. 1987 by MO&O (FCC 87-393). 


в FCC reaffirms conclusion that Fairforest. SC. is a "li- 
zensable" community—MM Dockets 84-1309-1310 (Report 
0С-1070, Action in Docket Case}. Action by commission 
Dec. 21. 1987 пу MO&O (FCC 87-394). 


Staff Actions 


в Rockledge. FL—Designated for hearing 15 mutually 
exclusive applications for new FM station on channel 274A 
(102.7 MHz) at Rockledge. (MM Docket 87-556 by order 
[DA 87-1794] adopted Dec. 7. 1987 by the Chief. Audio 
Service Division, Mass Media Bureau.) 


W Corydon. IN—Designated for hearing. applications of 
Corydon Broadcasting Limited and Harrison County Broad- 
casting Co. for new FM station on channel 299B (107.7 
MHz) at Corydon, and dismissed applications of Pruitt and 
Owen. Lopez Radio Inc.. Corydon Broadcasting Limited 
Partnership. Corydon Communications Limited Partnership 
and Minority Communications. (MM Docket 87-559 by 
order [DA 87-1800] adopted Dec. 8, 1987 by Chief. Audio 
Services Division. Mass Media Bureau.) 


в Cedar Rapids. [A—Designated for hearing. applications 
of Cedar Rapids Broadcasting and Family Broadcasting Co. 
Inc. for new commercial television station on channel 48 at 
Cedar Rapids. (Bv order [DA 87-1711] adopted Oct. 27. 
1987 by Chief. Video Services Division. Mass Media 
Bureau.) 


в Fort Scott, KS—Designated lor hearing. applications of 
Courtney Jackson. Family Broadcasting Co. Inc. and Hefty 
Communications. Ltd. for new commercial TV station on 
channel 20 at Fort Scott. (MM Docket 87-553 by order [DA 
87-1782] adopted Nov. 30. 1987 by Chief. Video Services 
Division.) 

m Harlan. KY—Designated for hearing. applications of 
Eastern Broadcasting Co. and Charles W. Berger for new 
FM station on channel 286A (105.1 MHz) at Harlan. (MM 
Docket 87-558 by arder [DA 87-1780] adopted Dec. 3. 
1987 by Chief. Audio Services Division.) 


в Minden. LA—Designated for hearing applications of 
John Jones, Jr. and Carl M. Fisher for new commercial TV 
station on channel 21 at Minden. (By order [DA 87-1709] 
adopted Oct. 27, 1987 by Chief. Video Services Division.) 


m Kittery, ME—Designated for hearing eight mutually 
exclusive applications for new FM station on channel 287A 
(105.3 MHz) at Kittery and dismissed application of Earl 
Terry Courtney. (MM Docket 87-549 by order [DA 87-1783] 
adopted Dec. 2. 1987 by Chief. Audio Services Division.) 


в Lawton, OK—Designated for hearing. applications of 
Day Broadcasting and Barton W. Ratliff for new commercial 
TV station on channel 45 at Lawton. (MM Docket 87-550 
hy order [DÀ 87-1781] adopted Nov. 30. 1987 hy Chief. 
Video Services Division.) 


ш Lagrande, OR—Designated for hearing. applications of 
A.J.T Broadcasting Services Limited Partnership. Blue 
Mountain Broadcasting Co. and Carol M. Hodgins for new 
FM station on channel 261A (100.1 MHz) at LaGrande, and 
dismissed application of Non-Profit Concepts Inc. (MM 
Docket 87-557 bv order [DA 87-1795] adopted Dec. 7. 
1987 by Chief. Audio Services Division.) 


в Nashville—Determined that WTVF(TV) Nashville. 
produced program "On the Air with Ruth Ann Leach,” 
should be treated as "bona fide news interview program" 
exempt from equal opportunity requirements of Communi- 
cations Act. (By Staff Ruling [DA 87-1840] adopted Dec. 
16. 1987 by Chief. Fairness/Political Programing Branch. 
Mass Media Bureau.) 


ALJ Actions 
By Review Board on dates shown: 


ш San Francisco (KQED. Inc. [KQED-FM. KQED-TV 
and KQEC-TV]) License Renewal proceeding—Scheduled 
oral argument for Friday. Jan. 15. 9:30 a.m.. room 235. 
2000 L St.. NW. on exceptions to initial decision of Deputy 
ALJ James Е Tierney [FCC 860-69. released Jan. 16. 1987] 
granting renewal applications of KQED Inc. for stations 
KQED-TV. KQED-FM and KQEC-TV. channel 32 at San 
Francisco. and denying application of Minority Television 
Project for new noncommercial educational TV station on 
channel 32 at San Francisco. Each party has 20 minutes for 
argument. Minority Television. California Public Broadcast- 
ing. Forum. et al.. and Mass Media Bureau may reserve part 
of their time for rebuttal. (By order. Dec. 9. 1987.) (MM 
Docket 85-396, et al.) 


в Hastings. NE—Reopened record and enlarged issues 
against Charles Ray Shinn. applicant for new FM station at 
Hastings to determine whether Shinn has reasonable assur- 
ance that his proposed transmitter site will be available. 
(MM Docket 86-362 by MO&O [FCC 87R-67] adopted 
Dec. 15. 1987 by Review Board.) 


@ Las Vegas and Paradise, NV (Martin ltnermart. Inc.. et 
al.) FM procceding—Scheduled oral argument for Friday. 
Jan. 8. 10:00 a.m.. room 235. 200 L St.. NW. on exceptions 
to initial decision of ALJ Edward J. Kuhlmann [FCC 87D- 
32]. released Sept. 24. 1987] granting application of Gary 
E. Willson for new FM station on channel 278C (103.5 
MHz) at Paradise: and denying competing applications of 
Martin Intermart. Inc. and Fremont Broadcasting Corp. for 
same facility at Las Vegas. Each party has 20 minutes for 
argument. Martin [ntermart and Fremont Broadcasting may 
reserve part of their time Гог rebuttal. (By leter Dec. 11. 
1987.) (MM Doc 86-363.) 


By Chief ALJ Thomas B. Fitzpatrick on dates shown: 


= Linden. AL (Dianne E. Ellis. et al) FM proceeding— 
Designated ALJ Edward J. Kuhlmann to preside in proceed- 
ing scheduled prehearing conference for Feb. 10 and hearing 
for March 11. (By order. Dec. 9. 1987.) (MM Doc 87-539.) 


W Juneau. AK (Hameed Ahmad and Golden Bear Commu- 
nications General Partnership) FM proceeding—Designated 
ALJ Joseph Stirmer to preside in proceeding. Scheduled 
prehearing conference for Feb. 11 and hearing for March 14. 
(By order. Dec. П, 1987.) (MM Doc 87-540.) 


в Bradenton, FL (Gulf Coast Broadcasting Lid.. et al) TV 
proceeding—Designated ALJ Richard L. Sippel to preside 
in proceeding. Scheduled prehearing conference for Feb. 9 
and hearing for March 9. (By order. Dec. 8. 1987.) (MIM 
Doc 87-532.) 


W Ft. Lauderdale, FL (Metroplex Communications Inc. 
[WHYI-FM] and Southeast Florida Broadcasting Limited 
Partnership) FM Renewal proceeding—Granted Southeast 
Florida Broadcasting's request for immunity to Robert С. 
Walker. former program director of WHYI-FM. against self- 
incrimination with respect to whether he participated in 
recreational drug use with representatives of record compan- 
ies and whether he received drugs from such representatives 
for его use. (By order. Dec. 18. 1987.) (ММ Doc 
87-50.) 


ш Gainesville. FL (Gainesville Broadcasters and Matthew 
Provenzano) AM _ proceeding—Designated Chief ALJ 
Thomas B. Fitzpatrick to preside in proceeding. Scheduled 
prehearing conference for Feb. 10 and hearing for March 21. 
(By order. Dec. 9, 1987.) (MM Doc 87-536.) 


в Key West. FL (Hartke Communications Corp.. etal) TV 
proceeding—Designated Deputy Chief ALJ James Е Tier- 
ney to preside in proceeding. Scheduled prehearing confer- 
ence for Feb. 12 and hearing for March 15. (By order. Dec. 
15. 1987.) (MM Doc 87-548.) 


ш Ely. NV (Darryl Madlock and Mountlake Productions. 
Ltd.) TV proceeding—Designated ALJ Joseph P. Gonzalez 
to preside in proceeding. Scheduled prebearing conference 
for Feb. 9 and hearing for March 10. (By order. Dec. 8. 
1987.) (MM Doc 87-533.) 


в Roswell. NM (PN Radio Co.. et al) FM proceeding— 
Designated ALJ John M. Frysiak to preside in proceeding. 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
190 


In-teg-rity... 


1: soundness 2: adherence toa 
code of moral values: utter 
sincerity, honesty and candor 
syn. honesty. 


Dis-cre-tion... 


1: The quality of being dis- 
creet: cautious, reserve in 
speech 2: The ability to make 
responsible decisions. 


MVP, a discreet brokerage 
and financial service 
with integrity, whose princi- 
pals have initiated over 
$350,000,000 in transactions. 


For a strictly confidential dis- 
cussion about buying, selling, 
financing and appraising... 
call Media Venture Partners. 


MEDIA VENTURE 
PARTNERS 


Integrity and Discretion 
... the difference! 


RADIO and TELEVISION BROKERAGE 
FINANCING • APPRAISALS 


CHARLES E. GIDDENS * BRIAN E. COBB 
1255 23rd St., N.W., Suite 890 
Washington, D.C. 20037-1125 

202-785-4333 


RANDALL E. JEFFERY 
7419 Conroy Rd., Suite C 
Orlando, FL 32811-3409 

305-295-2572 


RAYMOND J. SCHONBAK 
6311 N. O'Connor Rd. 
L.B. 97, Irving, TX 75039-3510 
214-869-7643 


ELLIOT B. EVERS 
1700 Montgomery St., Suite 322 
San Francisco, CA 94111-1024 
415-391-4877 


Scheduled prehearing conference for Feb. 12 and hearing 
for March 15. (By order, Dec. 15, 1987.) (MM Doc 87- 
542.) 


в Oklahoma City (Seraphim Corp. [KGMC(TV)]) Show 
Cause proceeding—Designated ALJ Walter C. Miller to 
preside in proceeding. Scheduled prehearing conference for 
March 17 and hearing for April 25. (By order, Dec. 8, 
1987.) (MM Doc 87-531.) 


в Stephenville, TX (Breckenridge Broadcasting. Co., et 
al) FM proceeding—Designated ALJ Joseph Chachkin to 
preside in proceeding. Scheduled prehearing conference for 
Feb. 11 and hearing for March 14. (By order, Dec. 11. 
1987.) (MM Doc 87-541.) 


By ALJ Joseph Chachkin on dates shown: 


в Twentynine Palms. CA (Carter Broadcasting Corp.. et 
al) TV proceeding—Granted motion for summary decision 
by Carter Broadcasting and resolved air hazard issue in its 
favor. (By order. Dec. 21. 1987.) (MM Doc 87-448.) 


в Selbyville, DE (Anchor Broadcasting Ltd. Partnership, 
et al) FM proceeding—Granted request by Kirkiey Paige 
Beal and dismissed application with prejudice. (By order. 
Dec. 15. 1987.) (MM Doc 87-504.) 


в Shreveport. LA (Word of Life Ministries Inc.. et al) TV 
proceeding—Dismissed with prejudice application of Wes- 


Services 


FCC ON-LINE DATABASE 


dataworld 


Allocation Terrain Studies 
AM € FM е TV e LPTV e ITFS 
4827 Rugdy Ауе. Suite 200 
Betnesda. MD 20814 
(301) 652-8822 1-800- 368-5754 


BROADCAST DATA SERVICES 
Computerized Broadcast Service 
Including 
Data Base'/Allocation Studies 
Terrain Profiles 
A Div. of Maffet. Larson в Johmon, Inc. 


703 824-5666 


UNUSED 


CALL LETTERS 
CALL 


dataworld 


1-800—368-5754 


MAILING LABELS 


AM, FM & TV 
CALL 


dataworld 


1-800—368-5754 


VOICE OVER, INC. 
The right voice for Ту & radio: 
8 NEWS (Promotions) 
8 Entertainment (Promotions) 
" eo SPOTS 
е 1.0.5 
SAVE S, TIME, CONTACT US FIRST! 
(901) 272-3468 Telex 62601560 


Sony. Ampex, Ike 
Panasonic, NEC, GVG 
ON SITE MAINTENANCE 
HOURLY AND DAILY RATES 


Advanced Video Systems 
614—898-9120 - 24 Hrs. 


ley Godfrey for failure to prosecute. (By order, Dec. 9, 
1987.) (MM Doc 87-87.) 


® Irondequoit, NY (Silver Broadcasting Ltd. Partnership, 
et al) FM proceeding—Granted request by Genessee Broad- 
casting Inc. and dismissed its application with prejudice. 
(By order, Dec. 15, 1987.) (MM Doc 87-517.) 


By ALJ John M. Frysiak on dates shown: 


® Woodlake, CA (SEB Broadcasting, Inc., et al) FM 
proceeding—By separate orders, granted motion by KIKJ 
Company and dismissed with prejudice applications of SEB 
Broadcasting Inc., Vision Broadcasting, Baron Broadcast- 
ing, and Woodlake Ltd. Partnership for failure to prosecute 
ordered environmental issue specified against KIKJ Co. 
tesolved in its favor. (By orders, Dec. 15, 1987 and Dec. 
18, 1987.) (MM Doc 87-430.) 


@ M Harbor Springs. MI (Running Rhodes, Inc. and Patricia 
Ann Mason) FM proceeding—Approved settlement agree- 
ment and dismissed with prejudice application of Patricia 
Ann Mason; granted application of Running Rhodes for new 
FM on channel 280A (103.9 MHz) at Harbor Springs and 
terminated proceeding. (By MO&O. Dec. 8, 1987.) (MM 
Doc 87-466.) 


By ALJ Joseph Р Gonzalez on dates shown: 
W Kansas City, MO (Channel 32 Broadcasting Co., et al) 


301-731-5677 Completa 
Broadcast Гас! ту 
Design 4 Пезганат,оа 


arrison 


Systems Ltd. 


7$15 Annapolis Яоаб Suite 411 
мра нае, Магу ала 20784 


RAMTRONIX, INC. 


Connector Supplier 
to the Broadcast Industry 
Kings/ITT Cannon 
67 Jefryn Blvd. E. 
Deer Park, N.Y. 11729 
(516) 242-4700 


@Teletech inc. 


BROADCAST CONSULTANTS AND ENGINEERS 


€ FCC Аррка ав ano Ғе: Engineering 
ө Frequency Searcnes ana Coordinaron 
* Tower E-ecuon and Maintenance 

° Расму Design and Consiruction 


23400 Mich же 


Contact БММ 
RENE TEU Ен Dearborn MI 48124 


(313) 562 6873 


29 - 
COMMUNICATIONS INC 


* Radio and Television System Design 
* Transmitter and Studio Installation 
* Microwave and Satellite 
Engineering and Installation 
12 North Willow St. 


201-746-9307 Montclair, NJ 07642 


SOFTWARE 
FM CHANNEL SEARCH 


FM Database. modem updates by B.D.S 


MSDOS - EGA-Graphics - Color 


ү Doug Vernier 
Broadcest Conevitent 
1600 Picturesque Driva 
Cedar Falls Iowa 50613 
319 266-7435 


contact 
BROADCASTING MAGAZINE 
1705 DeSales St., N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
tor availabilities 
Phone: (202) 659-2340 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
130 


TV proceeding—Memorialized CMTV. Inc.'s voluntary 
withdrawal of its application. (By order, Dec. 14, 1987.) 
(MM Doc 87-86.) 


By ALJ Edward J. Kuhimann on dates shown: 


в Solana, FL (Central Radio Communications, Inc., et al) 
FM proceeding— Dismissed with prejudice applications of 
Central Radio Communications Inc., Frederick I. Shaffer 
Ш, and Brent L. Harmon and Elvin L. Harmon, partners, 
for failure to prosecute: granted motion for summary deci- 
sion by Charlotte Broadcast Partnership and resolved cross- 
interest issue in its favor. (By MO&O, Dec. 9. 1987.) (MM 
Doc 87-464.) 


в Lafayette, LA (Lafayette Communications, Inc.. et al) 
FM proceeding—Granted request by 80-90 Limited and 
dismissed its application with prejudice, dismissed with 
prejudice following applications for failure to prosecute: 
Lafayette Communicatins Inc.. George Van Hook Jr., Leam 
Broadcasting Inc., Phyla Broadcasting. Julie N. Frew. Klue 
Radio Inc.. Linzer Enterprises. RVM Inc.. Royal Broadcast- 
ing Partnership, Lafayette Communicatins Inc.. and Crisler 
Communications. (By MO&O. Dec. 8. 1987.) (MM Doc 
87-449.) 


By ALJ Edward Luton on dates shown: 


в Blackfoot, ID (Richard P. Bot. et al) FM proceeding— 
Granted motion for summary decision by Clare Marie Fer- 
guson and resolved air hazard and site availability issues in 
her favor. (By order. Dec. 9. 1987.) (MM Doc 87-223.) 


W Morganton, NC (Gnol Broadcasting Inc., et al) TV 
proceeding—By separate orders, granted motion for sum- 
mary decision by R. L. Bush. Jr. and resolved short-spacing 
issue in his favor. granted request by Joel J. Kinlow. Jr. and 
dismissed his application with prejudice. (By orders. Dec. 
10. 1987 and Dec. 22. 1987.) (MM Doc 87-82.) 


By ALJ Walter C. Miller on dates shown: 


m Montecito, СА (LNJ Communications. et al) FM pro- 
ceeding—Granted request by Raymond J. Briare and dis- 
missed his application with prejudice. (By order, Dec. 14. 
1987.) (MM Doc 87-426.) 


W Edinboro. PA (Susan B. Klaus, et al) FM proceeding— 
By separate orders. granted requests by Jeanine M. Joynt 
and Susan B. Klaus and dismissed their applications with 
prejudice; dismissed with prejudice applications of Paoella- 
CSOP Co. and Jeremy Warren and Cole Hughley. general 
partners, for failure to prosecute. (By orders, Dec. 15. 1987 
and by MO&O. Dec. 17. 1987.) (MM Doc 87-511.) 


By ALJ Richard L. Sippel on dates shown: 


m Destin. FL (Sharon S. Smith. et al) TV proceeding— 
Granted request by Emerald Coast Broadcasting and dis- 
missed with prejudice applications of Sharon S. Smith. 
William F. Parrish. Jr.. and Airwave Media. Ltd. for failure 
to prosecute. Application of Emerald Coast remains in 
hearing status pending resolution of air hazard issue. (By 
order, Dec. 7, 1987.) (MM Doc 87-488.) 


@ Bay Shore, NY (Warren Price Communications. Inc., et 
al) FM proceeding—Granted motion for summary decision 
by RPS Communications and resolved air hazard issue in its 
favor. (By order. Dec. 15, 1987.) (MM Doc 87-246.) 


W Upper Arlington. OH (PN Radio Co.. et al) FM pro- 
ceeding—Granted motion for partial summary decision by 
BMS Communicatins of Upper Arlington and resolved air 
hazard issue in its favor. (By order. Dec. 21. 1987.) (MM 
Doc 87-37.) 


By ALJ Joseph Stirmer on dates shown: 


Ш Kerman, CA (Barnard Broadcasting, et al) FM proceed- 
ing—Approved settlement agreement and dismissed with 
prejudice applications of A&A Broadcasting Corp., Kerman 
Radio Corp.. and Minority Media Telecommunicatins. Inc.. 
granted application of Barnard Broadcasting for new FM 
station on channel 232A (94.3 MHz) at Kerman. and 
terminated proceeding. (By MO&O. Dec. 17. 1987.) (MM 
Doc 87-238.) 


ш Nicholasville, KY Jessamine County Communications 
Ltd. and FM Nicholasville Limited Partnership) FM pro- 
ceeding—By separate orders. granted motion for summary 
decision by Jessamine County Communications and re- 
solved air hazard issue in its favor: approved settlement 
agreement and dismissed with prejudice application of FM 
Nicholasville Limited Partnership: granted application of 
Jessamine County Communicatins for new FM station on 
channel 273 (102.5 MHz) at Nicholasville, and terminated 
proceeding. (By order, Dec. 11, 1987 and by MO&O. Dec. 
17, 1987.) (MM Doc 87-251.) 


т Karns. TN (John Strelitz, et al) FM proceeding—Ap- 
proved settlement agreement among George S. Flinn Jr., 
John Strelitz. Kams Broadcasters. Ltd.. Beaver Ridge Com- 
munications, Ltd., and Jacob Broadcasting Co. Inc. and 
dismissed with prejudice application of George S. Flinn Jr. 
(By order. Dec. 2, 1987.) (MM doc 87-343.) 


Professional Cards 


du Trell, Lundin & Rackley, Inc. 


A Sybtiiary of A D Rng. P C 


1019 19th Street, М. W. 
Third Floor 
Washingion. О. С. 20036 
Tataphone: 202/223-6700 
Facsimile: 202/466-2042 


Member AFCCE 


SILLIMAN AND SILLIMAN 
8121 Georgia Ave. #700 
Silver Spring, MD 20910 


ROBERT M. SILLIMAN. P.E. 
(301! $89-8288 


THOMAS B. SILLIMAN. P.E. 
(812) 853.9754 


Member AFCCE 


JOHN B. HEFFELFINGER 


9233 Ward Parkway, Suite 285 
816.444-7010 
Kansas City, Missouri 64114 


Member AFCCE 


E. Harold Munn, Jr., 
& Associates, Inc. 
Broadcast Engineering Consultants 
Box 220 
Coldwater, Michigan 49036 
Phone: 517— 278-7339 


ENTERPRISE ENGINEERING PC. 
Consulting Engineers 
FW HANNEL, PE 


PO Box 9001 Peoria, IL 61614 
(309) 691.4155 


Member AFCCE 


D.C. WILLIAMS 
& ASSOCIATES, INC. 


Consuiting Engineers 
AM-FSVOTV LPTV {ату 
POS? orricr 80x 700 


FOLSOM, CALIFORNIA 95630 
(916) 933-5000 


LAWRENCE L. MORTON 
ASSOCIATES 


21671 SUPERIOR LANE 
LAKI FOREST CAuFORINA 92630 


TILECOMM IN CATORS OEE RS, 


LAWRENCE L. MORTON, P.E. 


AM + ЕМ + TV 
APPLICATIONS • FIELO ENGINEERING 


(714) 859-6015 


COURTRIGHT 
ENGINEERING, INC. 
ELECTRICAL AND BRÜADCAST 


РО. BOX 2201 е GLENDALE. 
ARIZONA 85311-2201 

MORRIS “COURT* COURTRIGHT. 
Ph D.. PE.. President 


Member AFCCE' (602) 937-5213 


Cari T Jones 
- Corporation 
A Suceiury of Scarce AcCICIFUPG ааттаан Corponibon 
CONSULTING ENGINEERS 


7901 YARNWOOD COURT 
SPRINGFIELO , VA. 22153 
(703) 569 - 7704 
MEMBER AFCCE 


Moffet, Larson & Johnson, Inc. 
Consulting Telecommunications Engineers 
Two Skyline Place, Suite 800 
5203 Leesburg Pike 
Falls Church, VÀ 22041 


703 824-5660 
Member AFCCE 


JULES COHEN 
& ASSOCIATES, PC. 


Suite 400 
1730 M St. N.W. 
Washington OC 20036 
1202) 659.3707 
Member AFCCE 


ROSNER TELEVISION 


SYSTEMS 
CONSULTING & ENGINEERING 


250 West 57 Street 
New York, N.Y. 10107 
(212) 246-2850 


STRUCTURAL SYSTEMS 
TECHNOLOGY, INC. 
MATTHEW J. VLISSIDES, Р.Е. 
PRESIDENT 
TOWERS. ANTENNAS. STRUCTURES. 
New Tall Towers. Existing Towers 
Studies, Analysis. Design Modifications, 
Inspections, Erection. Etc. 


6867 Elm St. McLean. VA 22101 (703) 356-9765 


(301 


Member AFCCE 


R.L. HOOVER 
Consulting Telecommurications Engineer 
11704 Seven Locks Road 
Potomac, Maryland 20854 
301-983-0054 
Member AFCCE 


Consulting Engineers 


P.O. Box 205 
McKinney, Texas 75069 
(214) 542-2056 
Member AFCCE 


George Jacobs 
& Associates, Inc. 
Consulting Broadcast Engineers 
Domestic & International 
Member AFCCE 


8701 Georgia Ave. 


Suite 410 Silver Spring. MD 
20910 


) 587-8800 


LOHNES & CULVER 


Consulting Radio-TV Engineers 
1156 15th. St. , N.W. , Suite 606 
Washington , D.C. 20005 
(202) 296-2722 


„Матра AFCCE 


Sinca 1944 


ANDRUS AND ASSOCIATES, INC. 
ALVIN H. ANDRUS, P.E. 


361 SCOTT DRIVE 
SILVER SPRING. MO. 20904 


ke 301 384-5374 


Member AFCCE 


CARL E. SMITH 
CONSULTING ENGINEERS 


AM-FM-TV Engineering Consultants 
Complete Tower and Rigging Services 


“Serving the Broadcast industry 
for over 50 Years" 


Box 2727 Ваш, Ohio 44210 
(216) 659-4440 


Mullaney Engineering, Inc. 
Consulting Telecommunications Engineers 


9049 Shady Grove Court 
Gaithersburg, MD 20877 
301-921-0115 
Member AFCCE 


C. P. CROSSNO & ASSOCIATES 
Consviting Engineers 
P.O. Box 18312 
Dallas, Texas 75218 
(214) 669-0294 
Member AFCCE 


ADVANCED BROADCAST 
CONSULTANTS 


APPLICATIONS, 
CONSULTING & 
FIELD SERVICES 


204B CROSS KEYS RD. 
BERLIN, NEW JERSEY 
(609) 767-7070 08009 


PAUL DEAN FORD. PE. 
BROADCAST ENGINEERING CONSULTANT 
R.R. 12, Box 351 
WEST TERRE HAUTE, INDIANA 47885 
812-535-3831 
Member AFCCE 


D.B. COMMUNICATIONS, INC. 


BroadcasvRCCicellular/satellite 
Telecommunications Consultants 


4401 East West Highway. Suite 308 
Bethesda. Maryland 20814 
(Located in лазат DC Area) 

301) 654-0777 
contact: Darrell E. Bauguess 


COHEN and DIPPELL, PC. 
CONSULTING ENGINEERS 
1015 18th St, N.W.. Suite 703 

(202) 783-0111 


Washington. D.C. 20005 
Member AFCCE 


HAMMETT & EDISON, INC. 
CONSULTING ENGINEERS 
Box 68, International Airport 
San Francisco, California, 94128 
(415) 342-5200 
Member AFCCE 


VIR JAMES 
CONSULTING ENGINEERS 
Аррисапопв and Field £ngineenng 
Computenzed Frequency Surveys 
3137 W. Kentucky Ave.-—80219 
(303) 937-1900 
DENVER, COLORADO 
Member AFCCE & NAB 


HATFIELD & DAWSON 
Consulting Engineers 
Broadcast and Communications 
4226 6th Ave., N.W. 
Seattle, Washington, 98107 


(206) 783-9151 
Member AFCCE 


JOHN F.X. BROWNE 
& ASSOCIATES, P.C. 
525 Woodward Ave. 
Bloomfield Hills, MI 48013 
(313) 642-6226 
Washington Office 
(202) 293-2020 
Member AFCCE 


CLARENCE M BEVERAGE 
Communications TECHNOLOGIES, Inc. 
BROADCAST ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS 
PO BOx 1130 
MARLTON. N.J 08053 
609) 885-002? 


WILLOUGHBY & VOSS 


Ve 
BROADCAST TECHNICAL CONSULTANTS 
SUITE 100-4 
15102 JONES - MALTSBERGER 
SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS 76232 
(512) 525-1111 QR 490-2778 
APPLICATIONS - FIELD SERVICES. 

Member МАН 


contact 
BROADCASTING MAGAZINE 
1705 DeSales St., N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
for availabilities 
Phone: (202) 659-2340 


Pal 


Classified Advertising 


See last page of Classified Section for rates. 
Closing dates. box numbers and other details. 


RADIO 


HELP WANTED MANAGEMENT 


су 1/20/88 to Brookdale Community College, Personnel 
Services Dept. RSM 1/20, Lincroft, NJ 07738. EOE/AA. 


Macon, GA 31201 


ES 
Rare opportunity for sales manager: Sales people with 
successful radio group. Good people are hard to find. as 


the rewards of a rapidly-growing communications com- 
pany Submit letter giving complete career and salary 
history and references. Responses will be kept strictly 
confidential. EOE. Box C-2 


HELP WANTED SALES 


KXEL. Send resumes to: Ken Hensley GSM, KXEL, Box 
1540, Waterloo, ІА 50704 


Come to Florida! Sales position available on Florida's 
beautiful west coast. Join top contemporary station. Salary 
plus commission. Contact E. Friedman, WRGI-FM. 950 
Manatee Road, Naples, FL 33961. Phone 813—775-3321. 


Atlantic City market. Local sales. Good money for willing 
worker. Great rock format and production department. 
603—522-1416 


8801. EOE M/F 


Wolf In sheeps clothing! Polished professional person 
who can close consistently Great deal for great person. 
Central Florida, and we've got the best station in our 
medium market of 200,000. Deal direct with owner. Box B- 
23 


Sales manager wanted for fast growing station near Allen- 
town, PA. Oldies format. Virgin market. This facility was 
totally upgraded in March of 1987. Good numbers. Gener- 
ous guarantee and percentages for the right person. Con- 
tact GM Aon Adams, WYNS, at 215—377-1160. EOE. 


M M ———— 
Leading radio station in exploding Greenville/Spartan- 
burg, SC, market seeks experienced salesperson exuding 
confidence, drive, creativity and customer focus. Only the 
best need apply in writing, in full confidence to: Tom Potts, 
WFBC, PO. Box 1330, Greenville, SC 29602. 


HELP WANTED ANNOUNCERS 


Available now: Station reorganizing staff and highly rec- 
ommending very talented personality with program direc- 
tor experience. Background includes jazz. urban contem- 
porary, AC, plus cable ТМ Wide experience. Now seeks 
settling in good market. All areas considered, preferably 
South. Minority status. 914— 762-9266. 


AM and FM combo, Southeast, medium market needs 
announcer for adult contemporary hits format. Strong pro- 
duction. Good future with expanding station. Box C-9. 


HELP WANTED TECHNICAL 


М.С. FM/AM seeks aggressive С.Е. for new state of the 
art facility Automation experience needed. Salary $500 
weekly, Send resume to Michael Thomas Whalen, WWMY, 
7819 National Service Road, Greensboro, NC 27409. 


KSKA-FM, 4101 University Drive, Anchorage. AK 99508. 
KSKA is an equal opportunity employer. 


HELP WANTED PROGRAMING 
PRODUCTION & OTHERS 


SITUATIONS WANTED MANAGEMENT 


Major market sales manager seeks GSM position. Strong 
trainer, motivator, innovator. Excellent track record includes 
everything from retail to national sales. Outstanding refer- 
ences. Box В-63. 


Want results now? Experienced G.M./S.M. delivers! You 
get what you pay for. Currently employed. Box B-70. 


SITUATIONS WANTED TECHNICAL 


Chief engineer for 10 years. Experienced in all phases of 
FM and AM directional. Seeks company that will share my 
commitment towards engineering excellence. Box B-B6. 


SITUATIONS WANTED PROGRAMING 
PRODUCTION & OTHERS 


Wants return to radio: desires programing. Internship in 
then #1 station in Wash., DC market. Supported DJs, 
collected demographics on audience and music. Robert 
Ware 703—256-3223. 


MISCELLANEOUS 


Producers, sleep wellf Thirty sixty-second music beds. 
Introductory price just $299.00. For demo, call Cape Ann 
Productions 617—356-2800. 


TELEVISION 


HELP WANTED MANAGEMENT 


General sales manager, local sales manager and national 
sales manager. The Gillett Group seeks aggressive, inno- 
vative leaders to become part of our team. !f you have 
exceptional people skills, a superior track record and are 
motivated by challenge, send resume to: Judy Somers, 
2242 North Great Neck Rd., Virginia Beach, VÀ 23451. 


National sales manager: WCBD-TV is seeking an aggres- 
Sive, results-oriented person with 2-3 years national rep 
experience. Strong communications skills and working 
knowledge of rating information are required. Station sales 
experience helpful. Send resume and cover letter to: John 
McMahon, GSM, РОВ 879. Charleston, SC 29402, 
ЕОЕ/МЕ 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
132 


General manager for market leading, group-owned televi- 
sion/radio combo in the Midwest. Leadership skills and 


lent salary and benefits. A career opportunity to lead a 
winning team. Please send resume to Box C-10. EOE. 


General manager opportunity available with a 100+ net- 
work affiliate in the beautiful upper Midwest. Experience in 
all phases of station operation and general management 
required. We're a group-owned company with outstanding 
tet and benefit plans. Please send resume to Box C-11. 
EOE. 


KMPH-TV, the nations number 1 independent television 
station is seeking an experienced national marketing man- 
ager. Applicants should have extensive experience in na- 
tional marketing (preferably independent) or national rep 
firm experience. Satary/commission comensurate with ex- 
perience. Please send resume. Applications will be taken 
through January 15th. Send resumes to: Personnel Depart- 
ment, KMPH-TV 26, 5111 E. McKinley Ave., Fresno, CA 
93727. No phone calls, please. An EOE, M/F/H. 


Station manager: CVETC is seeking a manager for WNVT- 
TV with studios located in Falls Church, Virginia. Manager 
is responsible for station operations and instructional inter- 
face with 13 school divisions in the northern Virginia area. 
Bachelor's degree and several years of fulltime exper- 
ience. Masters degree in mass communication learning 
systems or related fields desirable. Apply to WNVT-TV 
Search, 8101A Lee Hwy, Falls Church, МА 22042. Applica- 
tion deadline January 8, 1988, EOE. 


Local sales manager: WOTV Boston requires a good 
background in management. marketing, research. ac- 
count development, communication skills and strong sales 
abilities. This is an opportunity to be part of an exciting. 
challenging and dynamic team. Send resume, salary re- 
quirement and sales philosophy to Michael Roessler. 
МОТУ 1660 Soldiers Field Rd., Boston. MA 02135. ЕСЕ. 
МЕ 


General sales manager: Established independent is 
Seeking a dynamic, aggressive general sales manager. 
The successful candidate will be a strong leader. self 
motivated, and possess a proven professional track record 
in independent television sales. This group owned station 
is located in very attractive area of Sunbelt. Send resumes 
and information to: Box C-5. 


HELP WANTED SALES 


The Gillett Group is seeking aggressive, highly motivated. 
experienced account executives with exceptional track 
records, Also seeking trainee for challenging career oppor- 
tunity Send resume to: Judy Somers, 2242 North Great 
Neck На., Virginia Beach, МА 23451. 


Vendor support consultant. The Gillett Group is seeking a 
highly motivated individual for a major market affiliate. Must 
have at least three years experience conducting vendor 
programs with strong presentation skills. Send resume to: 
Judy Somers, 2242 North Great Neck Road, Virginia 
Beach, МА 23451. 


WPMT-TV, the Fox/independent powerhouse serving the 
Harrisburg-York-Lancaster-Lebanon 45th ADI, is expand- 
ing its sales staff and has immediate openings for 2 local 
account executives. We seek experienced individuals to 
work with state-of-the-art research and production facili- 
ties. If you're one of the chosen two, you'll join a group of 
positive hard-working professionals who are indeed in the 
right place at the right time. Send resume, references, and 
your definition of "commitment" to: Barry Bruce, Local 
Sales Manager, WPMT-TV, 2005 S. Queen Street, York, PA 
17403. ЕОЕ/МЕ 


HELP WANTED TECHNICAL 


Maintenance engineer with Type 5 experience. General 
studio maintenance with emphasis on 3/4". Send resume 
to Jack McGee, КОЕВ-ТМ 3000 East Cherry, Springfield, 
MO 65802. 


Experlenced maintenance engineers needed for major 
state-of-the-art Sunbelt facility Production, ENG, SNG. 
Competitive compensation and excellent benefits. We are 
looking for highly skilled people to maintain the most 
sophisticated facilities in the area. EOE. Box C-1. 


ENG Beta technician: Minimum 3 years experience in the 
installation and maintenance of ENG Beta cameras, video- 
tape equipment and related systems. Electronic school 
training and FCC general class radiotelephone license 
required. Heavy maintenance background in broadcast 
desired. Must be willing to work flexible hours and holi- 
days. Submit resumes to: Ralph Lee, Chief Engineer. 
KSTP-TV, 3415 University Ave., St. Paul, MN 55114. Equal 
opportunity employer, MF. 


—Ó á——HM— 
Maintenance engineer. WJKS-TV has an immediate open- 


Ing for an experienced studio maintenance engineer. We 
are equipped with Sony Betacart and BVU, Panasonic Mil, 
Grass Valley switchers, Utah Scientific routing. RCA and 
Ikegami studio cameras and Hitachi 1" VTRs. Our graphics 
are done with Chyron 4100, IRIS-C, NEC System 10, 
Aurora and Artstar. If ENG is your specially, we need your 
maintenance skills on Ikegami HL-79E, HL-95 and Sony 
BVP-300 cameras, BVU and MII field recorders, 2 micro- 
wave trucks, a helicopter and à Hubcom uplink truck. Send 
your resume to: Personnel, WJKS-TV PO. Box 17000, 
Jacksonville, FL 32216. EOE. M/F. 


жоя ш шо е оско аа ес 
Transmitter maintenance engineer. WJKS-TV is seeking 
a qualified transmitter engineer with experience on the 
Harris BF110U and General Electric TT-59A. We have a 
well maintained facility and an excellent staff to help you. 
Some nigh! hours are required. Send resume to: Person- 
bos MI PO. Box 17000. Jacksonville, FL 32216. 
‚МЕ 


Wanted: Studio maintenance engineer. Responsible for 
the maintenance of state-of-the-art broadcast quality 
equipment in expanding telecommunications center. Mini- 
mum qualifications: 2 year degree in electronics and 2 
years experience in the maintenance of broadcast quality 
TV equipment. Equivalent combinations of education and 
experience may substitute for the stated qualifications. To 
receive full consideration resume must be received no 
later than January 29, 1988. Send resume to: Marshall E. 
Alien, Director, Educational Television Services. Telecom- 
munications Center, Stillwater, OK 74078-0585. OSU is an 
affirmative action/equal opportunity employer. Successful 
applicant must comply with IRCA. 


Switcher/tape operator. On-air switching, record and play 
back shows off satellite. Light production work. Dubbing 
on-air Q.C. Experience required. EOE. Reply to Tammy 
Schmoll, KTVA, 1007 W. 32nd Ave., Anchorage, AK 99503. 


Senior maintenance engineer opening in upstale New 
York. Large TV facility loaded with the newest state-of-the- 
art equipment. Must be capable of troubleshooting studio 
equipment to the component level. Experience in maintain- 
ing digital and microprocessor-based equipment required. 
UHF experience a plus. Send resume and salary history to: 
WXXI Personnel Dept., PO. Box 21, Rochester, NY 14601. 
EOE. 


Now accepting applications for the position of lechnical 
director/master control operator for NBC affiliale in smog- 
free California central coast. Applicants must have strong 
experience in Switching newscasts and/or electronic main- 
tenance background. Send resume with salary history and 
requirements to James Brodsky, KSBY-TV, 467 Hill St., San 
Luis Obispo, CA 93401. No phone calls. Equal opportunity 
employer. 


HELP WANTED NEWS 


Computer graphics producer. News department needs 
computer graphics and series opens and to heip refine 
overall on-air look. Send resume, references and salary 
requirement to Billye Сами, KWTV. РО. Box 14159, Okla- 
homa City, OK 73113. EOE. M/F. 


News producers. We are looking for a late news producer 
who сап create fast-paced, highly visual newscasts. Can- 
didates should have 2-3 years producing experience. We 
also need a weekend show producer. 1 years experience 
required. Tape, resume, and references to News Director, 
WTEN-TV, 341 Northern Blvd., Albany NY 12204. 


Reporter: News 12 Long Island, America’s only 24-hour 

local news channel, seeks strong field reporter with supe- 

rior live on-air skills. Candidate should be capable, fast 

worker in all facets of reporting: ENG/SNG live, packages. 

and in-studio reports. Send tape and resume to John Hillis, 

Cre Media Crossways. Woodbury NY 11797. No calls. 
„МЕ 


News producer. Experienced producer for 6 & 11pm news 
shows at southern CBS station. Send resume & tape ю 
News Director, WNCT.TV РО. Box 898, Greenville, NC 
27835-0898. EOE. 


Sports anchor/reporter: We are looking for someone to 
Carry our Sports coverage beyond traditional highlights 
and scores. Must be an enthusiastic and personable an- 
chor as ме! as an excellent feature reporter. Should dem- 
onstrate ability to reach non-fans as well as the hard-core 
sports nuls. Send tape, resume and references to Michael 
Sullivan, News Director, WCBD-TV РО. Box 879. Charles- 
ton. SC 29464. No phone calls, please. EOE. M/F. 


Move into management! Dominant medium market affili- 
ate needs executive producer. Must be аме to handle day 
to day operations and many special projects. People skills 
and ability to direct and motivate producers and reporters 
essential. Perfect opportunity for major market producer 
who wants to move into management. Send resumes to Bill 
Payer, KTUL, PO. Box B, Tulsa, OK 74101. EOE. 


Reporter needed for top rated ABC affiliate. At least two 
years experience doing wide variety of stories as well as 
“live” shots. Send tape and resume (no phone calls) ta Bill 
Payer, KTUL, PO. Box В, Tulsa, OK 74101. EOE. 


Weekend weathercaster needed. Prefer meteorologist 
but strong on-air presentation à must. Science/environ- 
mental reporting three days/week. Send tape and resume 
(no phone calls) to Bill Payer, КТІ, РО. Box B, Tulsa, OK 
74101. ЕОЕ. 


Weather anchor/news reporter. KOLR-TV needs some- 
one as weekend weather anchor and news reporter three 
days a week. College degree and two years TVexperience 
required. Send tape/resume to News Director, KOLR-TV, 
Box 1718, Springfield, MO 65801-1716. Smokers need not 
apply No calls. EOE. 


Fox Television Stations, Ince., KRIV-TV Houston. is seek- 
ing a Monday - Friday weathercaster. Must have three to 
five years experience as a television weathercaster. Knowl- 
edge of color graphics desirable. Please send salary re- 
quirements, along with tape and resume to: KRIV-TV PO. 
Box 22810, Houston, TX 77027, Attn: News Director. No 
phone calls. EOE. 


Suncoast television: Join the excitement! Seeking news/ 
weather/sports personnel, production professionals, and 
promolion specialists. Tremendous growth area. challeng- 
ing opportunities, excellent compensation. Send resume/ 
references/salary history/non-returnable demo tape. Р.О. 
Box 22607, Tampa, FL 33622-2607. 


HELP WANTED PROGRAMING 
PRODUCTION & OTHERS 


The Giilett Group is seeking production directors, editors 
and innovative copywriters to staff expanding sales service 
departments. Must have two years minimum experience. 
Send demo tape 1/2” with resume to: Judy Somers, 2242 
North Great Neck Rd., Virginia Beach, VA 23451. 


Videotape editor. Full service post-production company 
seeks fulltime post editor for СМХ 3600, ADO, 4-62, VPR-3, 
on-line and off-line. Computer graphics experience helpful. 
Resume to: Scene Three, 1813 Eighth Ave. South. Nash- 
ville, TN 37203, Alln; Joe Askins, 615—385-2820. 


Photographer/editor. Leading TV news syndication com- 
pany seeks skilled photographer/editor. Tape should dem- 
onstrate a keen eye, sound news judgment and creativity. 
Must be self-motivated. At least two years commercial TV 
news experience. Send tape, resume and salary require- 
ments to: Glenn Graham, Crowley Financial Services, 2669 
E. Commercial Blvd., Ft, Lauderdale, FL 33308. 


Videographer for national cable ргодгатіпо network. Posi- 
tion requires extensive travel. Candidate will have 3-5 
years experience shooting with Belacam and 3/4", with a 
minimum of lwo years on a magazine style program (РМ 
Magazine). Send resume and demo tape te: Videographer 
Posilion, Black Entertainment Television, 4217 Wheeler 
Ave., Alexandria, МА 22304. No phone calls accepted. 


Post production editor: Experienced with computer edit- 
ing system, DVE, Chyron, GVG300, all tape formats. Send 
reusme to Miami Video & Post, 16550 N.W. 52nd Ave., 
Miami, FL 33014. EOE. 


Lighting director for public television station WETA. Re- 
sponsible for studia and remole location lighling for nation- 
al and local programs. Creativity, strong supervisory skills 
and ability to work within budget needed. Challenging 
opportunity for right person. Send resume, salary require- 
ments and sample reel, by January 15 to Director of 
Operations. WETA-TV, Box 2626, Washington. DC 20013. 


TV production manager: Top 50 network affiliate seeking 
aggressive production manager. Position requires hands- 
оп experience, good organizational skills, strong technical 
background and ability to manage production and oper- 
ational personnel. Commercial production a plus. Send 
resume and salary requirements to Bill Logan, WAVY-TV, 
801 Wavy St. Portsmouth, VA 23704. No phone calls, 
please. EEO. 


Producer/director: Network affiliate seeks director for #1 
newscasts and some commercial production. Minimum 
two to three years directing experience required. Send 
resume/tape to Paula Jacobsen, Production Manager, 
KTIV-TV, 3135 Floyd Вма., Sioux City, ІА 51105. EOE. 


TV producer. South Dakota Public Broadcasting seeks a 
cultural affairs/arts producer in Vermillion. Duties; Super- 
vise the production of television programs in the area of 
cultural affairs/arts for South Dakota Public Broadcasting 
Network; including program hosting. Opportunities: Pro- 
duction of magazine style format; mulli camera remotes: 
and arts documentaries. Education and experience: 
Graduation from a college or university with a bachelor's 
degree in communications with a broadcast emphasis and 
3 years experience in the television production field or 
specially area; cr an equivalent combination of education 
and experience. Salary range: $19,697.60 - $22,172.80. 
Deadline: January 8, 1988. Send resume (including Social 
Security Number) or state application form to the Bureau of 
Personnel. 118 West Capitol, Pierre, SD 57501. Handi- 
capped documentalion or DD214 forms required for pref- 
erence points. An equal opportunity employer. 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
133 


Videographer/field director. For West Virginia Public 
Broadcasting. Experienced in field and studio shooling, 
lighting. and directing. Responsible for editing. including 
content às well as technical aspects. Resume and salary 
requirements received by January 22, 1988 to: WNPB-TV. 
БЕ Box TV-24, Morgantown, WV 26507, c/o Videographer. 
EOE. 


Sr. videographer/editor for weekly magazine format pro- 
gram and local documentaries for Dallas/Fort Worth public 
television station. Minimum 3 years experience in television 
EFP or ENG production. Send resume and work samples 
to: Gilda Jones, KERA TV/FM, 3000 Harry Hines Blvd., 
Dallas, TX 75201. 


Creative services director. ABC affiliate serving newly 
expanded coverage area needs a hands-on crealive ser- 
vices director to oversee production-promotion and sales 
service. Production experience a must. Send resume, re- 
ferences and saiary requirements to: Jerry Heilman, Gen- 
eral Manager, КТУО-ТУ, Box 949. Kirksville, MO 63501. 


Tape editor: We need an individual capable of handling 
two high-volume a.m. shows. Need to possess nol only a 
technical eye, but an artistic one as well. Resumes only. 
Paul Baldwin, News Director, WTLV TV-12, 1070 E. Adams 
St., Jacksonville, FL 32202. EOE. 


SITUATIONS WANTED MANAGEMENT 


Weil versed operations and engineering manager with 
both large and small market experience wants to be part of 
your station. Strong on people, budgeting, and technology 
(including computers) Box C-7. 


TV generai sales manager...self starter with leadership 
and management skills. Extensive background covering 
local, nalional and regional sales management-wilh strong 
rep experience! Sales managemenl success with group- 
owned operations. Attending INTV Reply Box B-50. 


SITUATIONS WANTED TECHNICAL 


Experienced chief. Major market TV station looking for a 
new opportunity Good with people and technology Box C- 
B. 


Master control room operator over two years exp. 3/4" 
format, 1", 2" ànd live satt. exp. P. Hughes, Ht. 2, Box 62. 
Huntington. TN 38344. 


SITUATIONS WANTED NEWS 


Meteorologist: Personable, stable, AMS seal. Excellent 
and fast with colorgraphics. 8 years TV and radio exper- 
ience. Sincere, credible stlye. Contract expiring. Seeking 
move up from medium 1o higher market. Box B-55. 


Award winning sportscaster Show hosl, with 15 years 
experience. Great PBP & intyerviewer. Sports direclor or 
weekends. The personality for your newscast. 415— 
8780716. 


Feature or feature/weather position sought by reporter 
with reputation for finding an interesting story under every 
rock. Unique audition tape does resi of my talking! 814— 
255-3932. 


MISCELLANEOUS 


National home shopping network client will buy last 
minute air time on TV stations in any US market, large or 
small. 15 minutes to 24 hours are okay. Please send rate 
card and ROS closeout prices to: Vincent D'Autorio, VP. 
FCM Согр., PO. Box 2527, Sarasota, FL 34230. 1-800— 
2266660 Florida or 1-800—752-6668 other. 


Career Videos. Make an impact on employers with your 
personalized video resume tape prepared by our major 
market broadcast team. 312—272-2917. 


Media Marketing--now in our fourth year of offering conti- 
dential job-hunting assistance to broadcast professionals 
nationwide. No placement fee or contractual obligations. 
Discover the difference, and give your career the winning 
edge! P.O. Box 1476--PD. Palm Harbor, FL 34682-1476. 
B13—-7B6-3603. 


Primo People is seeking anchormen and anchorwomen 
with command and on-air presence, all size markets. Send 
lape and resume to Steve Porricelli, Box 116, Old Green- 
wich, CT 06870-0116. 203—637-3653. 


12 minutes of TV time on small stations are available 
anytime at $75.00 per 12 minute segment. Contact Vincent 
D'Autorio, УР, FCM Corp., РО. Box 2527, Sarasota, FL 
34230. 1-800—226-6660 Florida or 1-800—752-6668 out- 
side Florida. 


ALLIED FIELDS 
HELP WANTED INSTRUCTION 


Academic: Asst. Professor to teach broadcast news and 
Other areas in accredited school of journalism and broad- 
casting. Send letter, credentials, 3 references to Dr. Marlan 
Nelson, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK 74078. 
Deadline is 2/15/88. EOE/AF employer. 


Mass communication/broadcasting. Doane Col'ege in- 
vites applications for a new tenure-track position begin- 
ning August 1988 in a rapidly expanding program now 
planning a state-of-the-art production facility Seeking a 
dynamic assistant professor with strong committment to 
excellent undergraduate teaching at a vigorous, emerging 
college. Well-integrated theoretical and applied back- 
ground, professional media experience and PhD pre- 
ferred. Teach TV production and writing, media courses, 
and required speech course. Coordinate production facili- 
ty/program. Salary competitive. Send application letter, 
vita, 3 current letters of reference with phone numbers, and 
evidence of teaching effectiveness by January 20, 1988 to 
Dr. Phillip Gilbertson, Vice President for Academic Affairs, 
Doane College, Crete, NE 68333. AA/EOE 


Broadcasting. Indiana State University seeks an assis- 
tant professor to teach broadcast programing and TV 
production. Other courses offered will depend upon spe- 
cialty A tenure-track position with salary negotiable and 
good fringe benefits. Ph.D. or near and experience ехрес!- 
ed. Demonstrated competence in research, scholarship 
and/or creative activity and teaching expected. Send letter 
of application, vita, and names of three references to: Joe 
Duncan. Director of Broadcasting. Department of Commu- 
nication, Indiana State University, Terre Haute. IN 47809 
Materials received after January 29, 1988 cannot be guar- 
anteed consideration. AA/EOE 


Assistant professor (tenure track) available, September 
1988. Salary range competitive. MFA or Ph.D. required for 
tenure and promotion. Professional experience and col- 
lege teaching preferred. Responsibilities include teaching 
television/video production classes and classes in a spe- 
cialization such as radio, film and news. Minorities and 
women are encouraged to apply. Submit a letter of applica- 
tion indicating interest, training and experience, a com- 
plete set of graduate transcripts and al least three letters of 
recommendation no later than February 15. 1988 to Dr. 
Keith Henning, Department of Communication Studies, 
California State University, Los Angeles, 5151 State Univer- 
sity Drive, Los Angeles, CA 90032. 


Broadcast engineer: instructor position. Teach some 
broadcast classes, repair and maintain broadcast equip- 
ment. Salary: competitive nationally, twelve month appoint- 
ment. Qualifications: Master's degree and professional 
experience. Knowledge of the theory techniques and 
methods associated with the operation and maintenance 
of modern audio and video teievision broadcast and non- 
broadcast equipment, must know FCC rules and reguia- 
tions, must have 1st class radiotelephone operators li- 
cense or SBE broadcast technologists certificate or SBE 
engineering certificate or NARTE certification. Employment 
date: July 1, 1988. For initial screening send letter, vita, 
three letters of recommendation and official transcript to: 
Dr. E. Joseph Broussard, Head, Department of Communi- 
Cation, University of Southwestern Louisiana, PO. Box 
43650 USL, Lafayette, LA 70504. EEO, Affirmative action 
employer. 


Assistant or associate professor: Ohio University Schoo! 
of Telecommunications is looking for an industry profes- 
sional with Significant experience and a Master's or Ph.D 
to teach courses such as broadcast and cable mange- 
ment, finance, economics and sales; communication poli- 
cy and political economy of communications. Salary for a 
9-month academic year $22,000-$33,000 or negotiable 
Women and minority candidates are encouraged to apply 
Application deadline is January 15, 1988. Position starts 
Fall. 1988. Contact: Mike Mirarchi, Chair, Search Commit- 
tee, School of Telecommunications, Ohio University, Ath- 
ens, Он 45701. Affirmative аспомедиа! opportunity 
employer. 


University of Alaska Fairbanks seeks tenure track assis- 
tant professors beginning August 1988 with expertise in: 
RADIO BROADCASTING: Audio production, broadcast 
journalism and production, programing, broadcasting and 
Society Engage in professional actlvity aimed at produc- 
tion and publication. Graduate degree required in radio- TV 
or allied field, plus substantial relevant professional broad- 
casting experience. TELEVISION BROADCASTING: Televi- 
sion production. videography, instructional broadcasting, 
broadcast journalism and production, programing, broad- 
casting and society Engage in professional activity almed 
at production and publication, Graduate degree required 
In radio-TV or allied field. pius substantial relevant protes- 
sional broadcasting experience. Prior university level 
teaching experience, ability to teach advertising and/or 
public relations, or to manage academic personnel desir- 
able for al! positions. Salary: Minimum $30,747, depending 
on qualifications. AEJMC accredited program with news- 
editorial and broadcast sequences. in Community with 
daily and weekly papers, public and commerical radio and 
TV, cable. Send cover letter, resume, transcripts of gra- 
duate work, non-returnable sample of professional work, 
and names. addresses, phone numbers of two academic 
and two professional references to: Search Committee, 
Department of Journalism and Broadcasting. University of 
Alaska, Fairbanks, AK 99775-0940. Letter must be post- 
marked by February 5, 1988. The University of Alaska is an 


EO/AA employer and educational institution 


Brooklyn College: Tenure track position to teach in and 
coordinate undergraduate and graduate broadcast jour- 
nalism program. PhD or minimum of 8 years industry 
journalism experience. Assistant or Associate Professor. 
September 1 start. Dr. Robert C. Williams, Chair. Depart- 
ment of Television and Radio. Brooklyn College, Bedford 
Avenue and Avenue H, Brooklyn, NY 11210. An AA/EO 
employer. 


Indiana University: Department of Telecommunications 
seeks applicants for a tenure-track faculty position at the 
rank of assistant professor beginning August 15, 1988. 
Areas of particular interest include, but are not limited to: 
Electronic media audience analysis or programing; Elec- 
lronic media advertising; Critical and comparative media 
studies; Common carrier systems, economics and арріса- 
tions. Qualifications are an earned terminal degree, ипіуег- 
Siry-ievei teaching experience. ana demonstrated commit- 
ment to scholarly research. Salary is competitive and 
dependent on qualifications. Send transcripts; a vita de- 
scribing teaching, research and professional work; copies 
of research; indicators of teaching effectiveness: and three 
letters of recommendation to: Don Agostino. Department of 
Telecommunications, Radio-TV Bldg.. Indiana University, 
Bloomington. IN 47405. 812—335-6895. EOE/AAE. 


HELP WANTED TECHNICAL 


Telemation Productions Denver seeks highly exper- 
ienced audio engineer with advanced technica! and cre- 
ative skills In audio production and post production. Back- 
ground should include multi-track mixing, videotape and 
film recording. and ediling support. Salary commensurate 
with experience. Please send resume and salary history to 
Production Manager, TMP/Denver. 7700 East ІШ Avenue, 
Denver CO 80231. 


Maintenance engineer wanted: Television production fa- 
Cility is seeking a maintenance engineer. If you are exper- 
ienced with Sony & Ampex 1" videotape machines, CMX 
editing systems, Ampex & Abekus digital effects send 
resume to Jerry Ebbers, Telemation Productions, 7700 East 
lliff, Suite H, Denver. CO 80231. 


HELP WANTED PROGRAMING 
PRODUCTION & OTHERS 


Premier Colorado post production facility seeks highly 
experienced video tape editor with advanced technical 
and creative skills in computer editing, digital effects, and 
animation systems. Excellent client skills and references is 
anecessity. Experience on CMX 3400, ADO, Abekas desir- 
able. Salary commensurate with experience. Major bene- 
fits and unique creative environment. Send resume and 
demo tape to Personne! Director, 24769, Denver, CO 
80224. 


Videotape editor with business sense wanted to help 
deveiop new editing facility Sony BVU/BVE 800. Monthly 
retainer plus incentives. Send resume: CWI Productions, 
43 King Street, Portchester, NY 10573. 


SITUATIONS WANTED PROGRAMING 
PRODUCTION & OTHERS 


Video production. Looking for entry level position in an 
agency or production house. Have been independent 
producer during college. Video experience includes pro- 
ducing director. budgeting and live formats. Will relocated 
Contact Mark Verduin. 616—429-5358. 1574 Oak Terrace, 
St. Joseph, MI 49085. 


Corporate video manager: 16 years production exper- 
ience in broadcast and corporate video production. inter- 
ested in finding a company wanting to start a video depart- 
ment. or expand an existing one. Especially interested in 
the Southwest or West Coast. Currently employed. Box C- 
13. 


PROGRAMING 


Radio & TV Bingo. Oidest promotion in the industry. 
Copyright 1962. World Wide Bingo. РО. Box 2311, Little- 
ton. CO 80122. 303— 795-3288. 


EMPLOYMENT SERVICES 


Government jobs. 516,040 $59,230/yr. Now hiring. Your 
area. 805—687-6000 ext. R-7833 for current Federal list. 


EDUCATIONAL SERVICES 


On-air training: For TV reporters (beginners. veterans. 
cross-overs from print). Polish your delivery appearance. 
writing. Praclice with teleprompter. Learn from former ABC 
Network News correspondent and New York local reporter. 
Make demo tape. Call 212—921-0774. Eckhert Special 
Productions, Inc. (ESP). 


WANTED TO BUY EQUIPMENT 


Wanting 250, 500, 1,000 and 5,000 watt AM-FM transmit- 
ters. Guarantee Radio Supply Corp.. 1314 Iturbide Street, 
Laredo, TX 78040. Manuel Flores 512—723-3331 


Instant cash—highest prices. We buy TV transmitters and 
studio equipment. $1,000 reward for information leading to 
ош purchase of a good UHF transmitter. Quality Media. 
303—665-3767. 


prium p————— ÀÁ—À 
1" videotape. Looking for large quantities. 30 minules or 
longer will pay shipping. Call 301— 845-8888. 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
124 


— ———UÀ á— RENÉ S 
FM antenna (s): Will buy used FM broadcast antenna(s) - 
any make - any model - call 806—372-4518. 


FOR SALE EQUIPMENT 


AM and FM transmitter, used excellent condition. Guaran- 
teed. Financing available. Transcom. 215—8840888. Teiex 
910— 240-3856 


FM transmitters "Harris FM 25K(1986)-AEL 25KG"" RCA 
BTF-10D' Harris FM-10H3(10KW)" RCA 5В-ВСА 
3BCCA3000D(3KW)'" Syntronics 3.5 FM" Transcom 
Corp. 215—884-0888, Telex 910—240-3856 


AM transmitters ""Transmitters"" Harris BC-10H(10KW)"* 
5KW-Collins Power Воск (1978) 1KW-Harris MW1AHarris 
BC1H"* Collins 20V2 Gates ВС500” Transcom Corp 
215— 884-0888. Telex 910—240-3856 


50KW AM ''Gates BC-50C (1966) on air w/many spares, in 
STEREO * Transcom Corp. 215—884-0888, Telex 910— 
240-3856 


New TV startups. Quality Media can save you money Top 
quality equipment at lowest prices. Business Plans. financ- 
ing available. Quality Media 303—665-3767 


1000' Kline tower Good condition. Standing in centra 
U.S. Call Bill Kitchen 303—465-4141. 


Silverline UHF transmitters new, best price, latest tech- 
nology. 30kw. 60kw. 120kw, 240kw. В Kitchen or Dirk 
Freeman. Television Technology 303—465-4141. 


FM antennas. CP antennas. excellent price quick delivery, 
from recognized leader in antenna design. Jampro Anten- 
nas, Inc. 916—383-1177 


TV antennas. Custom design 60KW peak input power. 
Quick delivery. Exceilent coverage. Recognized in design 
adn manufacturing. Horizontal, elliptical and circular polar- 
ized Jampro Antennas Inc 916—383-1177 


39 AM trans. 65 FM trans. in stock. World leader in 
broadcast trans. Besco Internacional, 5946 Club Oaks Dr., 
Dallas, TX 75248. 214—226-8967/214— 8630-3600. Telex # 
510—1011-588. 


Colorgraphics Liveline III system, fully equipped, still be- 
ing used on air. Available in January. Bill Laughlin, WDSU- 
Ту 504--527-0632 


AM transmitters: 50, 10, 5, 2.5, 1, 5 and .25kw Continen- 
tal Communications, Box 78219, St. Louis, MO 63178. 
314—664-4497 


FM transmitters: 25, 20, 15, 5, 1, and .25kw Continental 
Communications, Box 78219, St. Louis, MO 63178. 314— 
664-4497 


Harris MW-1, five years old. Excellent condition. On 1330 
KHZ. $8,000 FOB Fort Pierce. Cal! Jim Chaplin or Fran 
Sherwood, 305—464-1330. WDKC, Fort Pierce, Florida 


Sony 1"-BVH 1100 with TBC 3 avai'able, Sony Portable 1" 
BVH-500A, Sony BVU-820, ВУ) 950, Sony BVE-800 Editor. 
Sony VO-6800 portabie 3/4" all VTR's in new condition. and 
with full warranty Cail Video Brokers 305—851-4595. 


Vinten Mark: 3 heads and peds 3 available. 45 Sony-VP- 
50005, iess than 100 hours. All with іші warranty. Cail Video 
Brokers 305— 851-4595. 


Grass Valley routing switcher: up to 64x64, Grass Valley 
1600-7K switcher with DVE, Grass Valley 1600-1x, all with 
full warranty Cali Video Brokers 305—851-4595. 


Tektronix 528 wave form monitor: (new), Tek 520 vectros- 
copes, Tek 1710, 1740,1750, Са! Video Brokers 305—851- 
4595. 


3D graphics system: Cubicomp picture maker 30 (New) 
special low price-several available. Call Video Brokers, 
now! 305— 851-4595. 


Sony color monitors-demo only: 19" PVM 1910. 40 avail- 
able with warranty са! Video Brokers 305—851-4595. 


Available now:Sony BVH-1000s. BVH-1100s, BVH- 
1100As. Ampex VPR-1Cs. VPR-2s, VPR-2Bs. VPR-3s, and 
one VPR-6. RCA and Hitachi triax cameras. Squeezoom, 
ADO-1000. and other DVEs. Chyron 4100, Sony 1" VTRs as 
low as $11,000.00. Cail Media Concepts for a complete lisi 
919—977-3600, ext. 45. 


Copper! #8 & #10 ground radials; 2,3,4,6,8" strap; fly 
Screen; ground screen. 317—962-8596. Ask for copper 
sales. 


Blank tape, half price! Perfect for editing, dubbing or 
Studio, recording Commericials, resumes, student pro- 
jects. training, copying. etc. Field mini KCS-20 minute 
cassettes $6.49. Elcon evaluated 3/4 videocassettes guar- 
anteed broadcast quality To order call Carpel Video Inc. 
301--845-8888. or call toll free. 800—238-4300. 


254' Rohn G-65 tower with lights. 65 Rohn HBX self 
supporting tower, 250' LDF J-50 Heliax, 250’ LDF HJ7-50A 
1 5/8" Heliax. Pheips-Dodge 3-bay antenna with deicers 
103.9. John Carroll, 517—362-3417 


Used broadcast & video equipment. We buy, sell. con- 
Sign, service. Over 1200 units in stock. BCS-Broadcast 
Store 818—845-1999. 


RADIO 
Help Wanted Programing 


Production and Others 


SENIOR EDITOR 


Washington based media organization is 
seeking a Senior Editor for it's National 
desk unit. Responsibilities include super- 
vising planning and execution of story 
coverage outside Washington, D.C., co- 
ordinating national coverage with pro- 
grams, national news coverage of inter- 
national and Washington news, 
supervising unit editors and production 
staff in preparation of national stories for 
programs. Must have B.A. or equivalent 
and six years journalistic experience, in- 
cluding national journalism and adminis- 
tratrve/editorial experience. Demonstrat- 
ed writing ability, and broadcast 
experience extremely desirable. Please 
send resume with salary requirements 
to 


National Public Radio 
Personnel Department 


2025 M Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20036 


EOE/AA 


Program Director/Morning Person 
for WCTO Long Island. Manager- 
administrator type with good 
voice. Disciplined beautiful-music 
morning person. Intelligent con- 
cerned, meticulous, ability to 
manage people. Computer knowl- 
edge helpful. Minorities and wom- 
en urged to apply. Send full infor- 
mation and tape first letter to 
Richard J. Scholem, WCTO, Box 
697, Long Island, NY 11747. 


Help Wanted Management 


CONTROLLER 


Dynamic Group Radio Broad- 
casting Company seeks Con- 
troller with strong communi- 
cations skills to oversee 
Accounting Operations. Re- 
porting to the CFO, the suc- 
cessful candidate will evi- 
dence a demonstrated track 
record of increasing financial 
responsibility spanning the 
course of at least 5 years; an 


academic background to in- 
clude, at minimum, under- 
graduate degree in Account- 
ing, and both Public and 
Private industry experience. 


Please forward resume and 
salary history to Box C-4. All 
responses will be maintained 
in strictest confidence. 


EOE, M/F 


Help Wanted Sales 


Broadcasting Company 
Seeks VP of Sales 


А. established national broadcasting company is looking for a key person in one 
of our industry's most vital markets, Detroit. We're reshaping the way the industry 
thinks of radio and we represent a truly unique opportunity for the right person. 


This special individual will build and manage our sales team, charging it with energy 


and innovation. 


To qualify, you must have detailed knowledge of radio station operation, extensive 
experience in selling broadcast advertising, and well-developed human relations 
skills. Knowledge of the Detroit market is a strong plus, as well as computer literacy 
and strong communications skills. We prefer a college degree and 3-5 years 
successful sales management experience in a top- 10 market. 


This position commands excellent salary and benefits. If you have the ability and 
qualifications, we encourage you to send your current resume promptly to: 


RICHARDSON-WILTON & ASSOCIATES 


РО. Вох 3502 Church Street Station 
New York, NY 10008-3502 


All replies will be handled in strictest confidence 


Principals Only 


Help Wanted Management Continued 


AA/EEO Administrator 


National Public Radio’s (NPR) Chief Ex- 
ecutive Officer seeks imaginative individ- 
ual with leadership qualities for new posi- 
tion as special assistant for affirmative 
aclion. The special assistant, as an ac- 
tive part of NPR's senior management, 
will report to the President and have 
three primary responsibilities: to assist in 
the impiementation of the NPR Affirma- 
tive Action Plan, to coordinate NPR's ef- 
forts to provide leadership in these areas 
in the public broadcasting system, and 
to serve as Equal Employment Opportu- 
nity Officer for NPR. Position requires that 
incumbent have: a working knowledge of 
equal employment opportunity require- 
ments as established in law or adminis- 
trative procedures; substantial related 
work experience: leadership ability; 
strong interpersonal skills; and excellent 
oral and writing skills. Prior related 
broadcasting media exposure/exper- 
тепсе a plus but not required. NPR offers 
a very attractive benefit package to in- 
clude several individual company paid 
benefits. Salary commensurate with ex- 
perience. Interested persons must sub- 
mit resume, to include salary history/re- 
quirements to: 


Ms. DeNise Johnson 

Director of Personnel 

National Public Radio 

2025 M Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20036 


Women and minorities 
are encouraged to apply. 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
135 


SALES MANAGER 


Now thal we have our 50,000 watt transmitter in St. 
Louis County: now that we have one of St. Louis” 
highest rated and most expensive air personal- 
ities: now that we have a $1,000,000.00 promotion 
budget. we need additional sales people and a 
sales manager. If you are interested in unlimited 
income pontential. the opportunity to build your- 
self a "team", send your resume and letter of 
interest that demonstrates your ability to develop 
sales and people, to ə 


Mr. Davis LX 


КІХ 104ҒМ 


111 West Port Plaza 104, 
Suite 1000 


St. Louis. MO 63146 Results Oriented Radio 
Confidentiality will be assured. 


Help Wanted Announcers 


VOA EUROPE 


INTERNATIONAL 
PERSONALITY/HOST 


VOA Europe. the Voice of America’s contemporary 
network to Western Europe seeks mature, versatile 
entertainer as personality/host Must be an exper- 
enced, major market quatity talent, used to exten- 
sive show prep, comfortable with scnpt or ad-lib, 
and willing to work any hours. VOA Europe is a full- 
service formal, which features contemporary mu- 
sic with adult personality hosts. Host will be an 
independent talent contractor This means excel- 
lent pay but no benefits. Must pass Government 
security clearance. Programs produced at VOA 
Europe studios in Washington, D C. Send recent 
tape with complete resume to: John Stevenson, 
VOA Europe, Rm. 1546, 330 Independence Ave- 
nue S.W. Washington. D.C. 20547 


Help Wanted Announcers 
Continued 


ANNOUNCER 
($17,000+ Annually) 
Highly rated Tampa Bay FM & AM seeks 
announcer with production-copy ability. 
This is an expansion position to accomodate 
our very rapid growth. Medium energy, 
MOR-AC delivery. Liberal benefits & career 


opportunity. Cassette & letter to: 
Station Manager 


маш 
СТАМРА BAYS MUSIC ОҒҚ АО LIFE 
7212 05 19 New Port Richey, FL 34652 


1w/AM GaOue ЖЕРЛЕСІ 
Lueian oe 


PALM BEACH, FLORIDA 


Talk show host for established newsytalk station, beck- 
ons quality talent for explosive market. Topical, in- 
volved, entertaining, able to touch listeners. and su- 
perb controversial conversationalist EOE. 
Tape/resume to: Broadcasting c/o WPBR, 3000 South 
Ocean Вма., Рат Beach, FL 33480 


Situations Wanted Management 


Capitalist Tool 


General manager with two decades 
of large-market experience seeks 
opportunity to be instrumental in 
helping your radio station face the 
challenges of 1988. Exceptional 
record of achievement with network 
o&o's and major group stations. 
No nonsense, no hype, 
no gimmicks and no excuses. 
Just hard work and winning results. 


Reply: Box 5754, Boston, MA 02114 


DALE ANDREWS 


Professional radio manager now 
seeking a new challenge. Major and 
medium market success in Balti- 
more, Houston, and Mobile/Pensa- 
s Taking calls now! 205—928- 
1182. 


Help Wanted Programing Production and Others 


We are a rapidly growing NBC affiliate in an outstanding location. We have 
the following opportunities immediately available: 


ART & GRAPHICS DIRECTOR 


The successful applicant will schedule, approve, and be responsible for 
all efforts of the Art and Graphics Departments. Duties will include on-air 
graphics look for News and promotionals, studio staging design and print 
advertising. The individual we seek must possess thorough working 
knowledge of state-of-the-art graphics equipment, including 3- D model- 
ing systems as well as TV graphic design, print advertising, layout and 
studio set design. Formal art & graphics training required. Supervisory skills 


helpful. 


ELECTRONICS GRAPHIC DESIGNER 


Help Wanted Programing 
Production, Others Continued 


Creative Services Senior 
Writer/Producer 


San Francisco's market leader 
seeks seasoned Writer/Pro- 
ducer to join fast paced, 
creative team. 
Must have 4 years TV 
promotion experience or equi- 
valent, samples of news and 
entertainment spots, print 
portfolio and excellent know- 
ledge of post production and 
editing. 

Send resume and demo reel to: 

Human Resources Director 


KPIX 
855 Battery St. 
San Francisco, Ca. 94111 


ких 
An equal opportunity employer 


Help Wanted Technical 


CIN 


SATELLITE UPLINK 
ENGINEERS 


Cable News Network, the leading news 
system in satellite communications, has 
career opportunities for engineers with 
earth station maintenance experience. 
These positions demand an extensive 
background in television and satellite 
uplink engineering. There will be some 
travel involved. Turner Broadcasting Sys- 
tem offers an excellent benefit and com- 
pensation program. Send resume to: 
Jim Brown, Engineering 
Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. 
One CNN Center, Box 105366 
Atlanta, Georgia 30348-5366 


TBS is an equal opportunity employer 


This individual will design and produce print, and electronic graphics relative 
to News and promotional efforts, utilizing state-of-the-art television 
graphics paint and modeling systems. Requires formal training in art design 
and experience on current TV graphics systems. Knowledge of current 
3-D modeling systems helpful. 


Help Wanted Sales 


TV SALES MANAGER 


Expanding television group 
seeking aggressive sales 
manager for independent sta- 
tion in the Northeast. Candi- 


We offer a location that affords rapid growth as well as outstanding year 
‘round recreational activities along with competitive salaries and benefits. 
For immediate consideration send your resume to: 


Personnel Department 
WXFL-TV 
PO. Box 1410 
Tampa, Florida 33602 


an equal opportunity employer m/t/h/v 


МУ ШЕН SESE Sree 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


date should have proven ra- 
dio or TV sales leadership 
experience with emphasis on 
local. Plenty of room for ad- 
vancement. Send resume to: 
Box C-6. EOE. 


ALLIED FIELDS 


Help Wanted Management 


DIRECTOR OF 
CURATORIAL 
DEPARTMENTS 


The Museum of Broadcasting has 
animmediate opening for an individ- 
ual with strong managerial skills, 


knowledge of the broadcasting in- 
dustry and working knowledge of 
Radio and Television programming. 
Please send resume only to Dr. Robe 
ert M. Batscha, Museum of Broad- 
casting, 1 East 53 Street, New York, 
NY 10022, Attention: Warren Levy 


Help Wanted Sales 


INTERMEDIA SALES 
DEVELOPMENT 


A unique opportunity to join the 
nation’s largest media corporation 
and one of the oldest newspapers 
in the Southwest in a visible, key 
sales development mission. Suc- 
cessful track record in broadcast 
sales, research sales or national 
media buying essential. Under- 
standing of newspaper industry 
preferred. Master's degree pre- 
ferred. Equal opportunity employ- 
er. Send resume to: Box B-83. 


Help Wanted Programing 
Production and Others 


Editing Specialists 


Due to rapid expansion, Cinedco/ 
Ediflex seeks additional staff to be 
trained as Instructors of the Ediflex 
Editing System. 

Requirements: 2-5 yrs. experience іп 
video or film editing. Familiarity with 
computers and video systems helpful. 
Send Resumes (о; Cinedco 

Attn: Jill Stanton 

Manager, Systems Support 

1225 Grand Central Avenue 
Glendale, СА 91201 


AS American as 


When you're JOB HUNTING... 


BBN 
Is On The Move... 


The Architectural Acoustics and Environmental Technologies Division of BBN 
Laboratories Incorporated has immediate need for several senior and entry-level 
consultants. BBN provides comprehensive consulting services in program 
development, facility design and systems design for many types of video, audio 
and audiovisual presentation facilities. 


If you are а... 


Senior Video Designer 
Senior Audiovisual Designer 
Audiovisual Designer 


and can provide leadership in some of the following areas... 


€ Facility Programming and Space Planning 
€ Video Systems Design 
€ Audiovisual Systems Design 


then BBN might be just what you're looking for! 


You should be outgoing, have excellent oral and written communication 
skills and be computer literate. As a senior designer, you should have more 
than 5 years' experience in the business and have a proven track record for 
successful marketing. As a staff designer, you should have at least 2 years of 
experience. Your education should include a B.S. or M.S. in Science, 
Engineering or other related areas. 

BBN Laboratories Incorporated offers an outstanding benefits package 
including: 3 weeks' vacation, tuition assistance, an employee stock purchase 
plan, and a retirement trust program. 

join the BBN team - voted one of the 200 Best Small Companies in America 
by Forbes magazine. 

Qualified candidates should forward a resume, including salary requirements 
to: Dept. FJ.D., BBN Laboratories Incorporated, 10 Moulton Street, 
Cambridge, MA 02238. An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H/V. 


BBN Laboratories Incorporated 


A Subsidiary of Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc. 


Employment Services 


It’s not what you know, but who you know... 


MEDIALINE KNOWS ’EM ALL! 


If you need a job, you need MediaLine. We're in touch with hundreds of media managers every 
week, finding the Job leads that will put you ahead of the pack. We report our job leads to you 
every day via telephone or computer. If you want a job in radio news or announcing, television 
news, production, weather, or sports, you'll get the freshest leads from MediaLine. Get the 


first word on the best jobs, call 800-237-8073 


JOBS ARE ON THE LINE 


The Consumer information Catalog is filled 
with over 200 federal consumer-oriented 
publications. Many are free and all are 
helpful. Get your free copy by writing — 


MO 65205-4002 


Consumer Information Center 
Department AB Pueblo, Colorado 81009 


Р.О. Box 10167, Coiumbia, 
THE BEST 


US General Services Administration 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
137 


Employment Services Continued 


WE PLACE ENGINEERS 
ALL CATEGORIES FOR TV, PROOUCTION, 
VIDEO, САТУ (EXCLUDING OPERATORS) 


America’s Leading Source for a Decade 
ITV STATIONS, PRODUCTION FACILITIES, CORP TV, MFG.. CATV) 
For information phone or write Mark Kornish 


key SYSTEMS 


479 Northampton Street 
Kingston, PA 18704 


(717) 283-1041 


Employer 
Paid Fees 


Programing 


RADIO BROADCASTERS 
PROFIT WITH 
HOME SHOPPING 


Our client is appointing AM and FM radio 
stations in various markets on an exclu- 
sive basis tó broadcast our radio shop- 
ping shows. Be the only affiliate in your 
market 


For a free video of our show CONTACT 
Ivan Siscoe, VP, Video Marketing Net- 
work, Inc., PO. Box 2527, Sarasota, FL 
34231, 1—800— 752-6668 national or 
1—800—— 226-6660 Florida 


SYNDICATORS 
SUPER = SUPER 
OUR 


HALF-HOUR FAMILY 
SPORTS TV SHOW 
NEEDS YOUR "HELP" 


Distribution - Sells 
415-878-0716 
WE HAVE THE $ TO 
PRODUCE 
"HELP" 


Lum and Abner 


Are Back 


.. piling up profits 
for Sponsors and stations, 
15-minute programs from 
ho tne golden age of radio. 
PROGRAM DISTRIBUTORS в P.O. Drawer 1737 
Jonesboro, Arkansas 72403 в 501/972-5884 


THE COMREX DIRECTORY 


If [20 have а program that's available on 
COMREX, call us at 1—800—237-1776. 


We'll include you in a new directory of 
radio programs that can be distributed 
on dial lines with Comrex encoding. 


we 
Programing Continued 


ATTENTION TV 
STATION 
PD.s & SALES MGR’S 


"THE FASTEST HALF-HOUR 
IN TV IS READY” 
SUPER - SUPER 

FAMILY SPORTS SHOW 
AVAILABLE 
BARTER OR CASH & 
MINUTES 
CALL NOW 415-878-0716 


Business Opportunities 


Transponder 
For 
Lease 
24 Hours/Day 
Westar IV 
BELOW MARKET 
Box C-12 


Miscellaneous 


WANTED FREELANCE 
BROADCAST PERSONNEL. 


We are now accepting additional applications 
for both freelance and full time broadcast per- 
sonnel for our national network, We place 
crews all around the country. Send resume and 
cover letter to: 


PERDER. 


BROADCAST SERVICES, INC. 
34-12 36th Street, Astoria, NY 11106 


VENTURE CAPITAL 
DEBT FINANCING 
For broadcasters 
Sanders & Co. 
1900 Emery St., Ste. 206 
Atlanta, GA 30318 
404—355-6B00 


For Sale Stations 


IOWA 
Fulltime AM - "A" FM 
Over $600,000 Gross 
Asking $ 1,060,000 


BE Meador d Kao. 


MEDIA BROKERS 
P.O. BOX 36 
LEXINGTON, MO 64067 
816-259.2544 


KANSAS CITY, MO. 
B16-455-0001 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
138 


For Sale Stations Continued 


NORTHEAST RADIO STATIONS 
FOR SALE 


Two combo radio stations (markets size 
100 to 200) operating under protection of 
Chapter 11 Bankruptcy are offered for 
sale by the Trustee. Both FM's are full 
Class B's. One AM is 5kw full-time direc- 
tional; the other is a 1kw daytimer. Com- 
bined 1987 Broadcast cash flow is est. 
$670,000 on $2,500,000 gross sales. Of- 
fers may be made on each combo sta- 
tion separately, however, any combined 
offer must exceed $6 million. Partial as- 
sumption of dept available to qualified 
buyer. (BROKERS NOT PROTECTED) 
iy must be received by February 1, 


Call or write for information to: 


Mr. Von A. Harshman 
Trustee in Bankruptcy 
Harshman, Lewis & 
Associates, P.C. 


323 Union, 3rd Floor 
Nashville, TN 37201 
615—726-3190 


TELEVISION 


TOP TEN INDY 
ATTRACTIVE MAJOR MARKET 
ENTRY OPPORTUNITY 


CLIFTON GARDINER 
& ASSOCIATES INE 


Communications Brokers 
433 Park Point Drive Golden, Colorado (303) 526-1458 


е 50,000 watts. 850КН2. Knoxville, TN. $1.2 million. 
Exciusive listing. 


* FM. Michigan on the lake. Resort area. $310,000. 
е Cable TV in W KS & S.C. PA, ask for Jim Dick. 
Broadcast Communications Bitisian 


BUSINESS BROKER ASSOCIATES 
615-756-7635 — 24 Hours 


JENNINGS-REID, ASSOCIATES 
EASTERN KY AM/FM 900K 
GA SMALL AM/FM 400K 

MED.FM 900K 
SMALL AM/FM 
SMALL FM 
BUYING OR SELLING 
JIM JENNINGS PAUL REID 
904—668-0263 404—882-1214 


$125,000 
$100,000 
$350,000 
$325,000 
ІРТУ Ch 14 Cent. FI. $175,000 


DOYLE HADDEN 305—365-7832 


AM Birmingham, Market 
AM Cent. Fl. 25K dn. 
AM (ЕМ CP) М. ЕІ. $75K dn. 


WGKR AM Perry, ҒІ., 75K dn. 


ot 


MULTI-MARKET 
Fulltime AM-Class "A" FM 
Currently %25-50,000 /mo 

MISSOURI - KANSAS 


Asking $600,000 


BE Meador & О ж 


MEDIA BROKERS 
P.O. BOX 36 
LEXINGTON, MO 64067 
816-259-2544 


Full C in strong mkt of over 400,000. Nego- 
tiable. 


Texas FM's and combos from $325K to 
$2MIl. 


Med. Mkt. Network TV - $10Mil, solid mkt. 


Profitable combo in beautiful La. mkt - 
$1.2Mil-terms. 


Ark. combo-170,000 pop. excellent terms. 
Miss. combos-great values for the $. 


John Mitchell or Joe Miot 


MITCHELL & ASSOCIATES 
Box 1065, Shreveport, La. 71163 
218—868-5409 318—869-1301 


TELEVISION 


TOP 40 
SUNBELT INDY 
FULLY EQUIPPED 
READY TO TURN ON 


CLIFTON GARDINER 
E ASSOCIATES INC 


Communications Brokers 
433 Park Point Drive Golden, Colorado (303) 526-1458 


Chapman 


ROCKY MNTS. AM/FM 
Small mkt. college town, close 
to major national parks. Asking 
$600,000 with $150,000 down. 


GREG MERRILL 
801/753-8090 


For Sale 1340 AM 


Beautiful profitable 24 hour 
station in N.C. growing mar- 
ket. Must send financial quali- 
fications. Box C-3. 


KANSAS CITY, MO. 


816-455-0001 | 


For Sale Stations Continued 


AM-FM 


Midwest Combo Powerhouses 
only TWO owners in the long 
history of these stations! 
Medium Size 
Multiple-State Market 
AM-$2,000,000 10kw 
FM-$1,750,000 100kw 
Strong Properties For 
Group Owner 
with management prepared 
to continue if desired. 


Reply Box B-36 


а Anchorage Area Class С $700,000/100,000 

Own. 

е Oregon Fulltime AM/good dial position. college 

Fw with strong ratings/$550,000 with $125.0 
Own. 

M Profitable Oregon Coast AM/FM $1,000,000/ 
erms. 


е среди Single Station Fulltime АМ $200,000/ 
$75, down. 
© Northwest Coast FM $175,000/inancing 
available. 
е Washington AM/FM College town 495,000/ 
$50,000 down. 
е Washington AM/FM metro market $650,000 
$150,000 down. 
CALL STEVE FEDER 
THE MONTCALM CORPORATION 
1410 NORTON BUILDING 
801 SECOND AVENUE 
SEATTLE, WASHINGTON 98104 
206—622-6236 


ЗАМ CP's make offer 
Aiken Fulltime AM 
AM (FM CP applied for) 
Fulltime AM Cash Flow 
Fulltime AM Cash Flow 
Class "A" FM 
Metro Class A FM 
Class C1 
Class A Combo 
Class C1 Top 100 market 


The Thorburn Company 
410 Sandalwood Drive, 
Atlanta, GA 30338 
Phone 404--998-1080 
Bob Thorburn, President 


250.000 
350.000 
850,000 
1,100,000 
1.200.000 
1,500,000 
3,500,000 


SOUTHWEST FM 
PERFORMS AS GREAT 


AS IT SOUNDS 
TOM месох 


CLIFTON GARDINER 


& ASSOCIATES INC 


Communications Brokers 
433 Park Point Drive Golden, Colorado (303) 526-1458 


TOP 100 MARKET 
Ohio AM/Day 


* Positive cash flow 
* Exclusive format 
* Long-term billing 
* Custom studios 

* Tax credits 


$350.000. Call after бот, 412—963-6311 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
129 


Chapman 


Associates 


SE TOP 70 MARKET 
Full AM, growth mkt., excellent 
ratings. Solid CF. $975 K with 
terms & opt. on val. real estate. 


ED SHAFFER 
404/998-1100 


BROADCASTING'S 
CLASSIFIED RATES 


All orders to place classified ads & all correspondence 
pertaining to this section should be sent to: BROAD- 
CASTING. Classified Department. 1705 DeSales St.. 
N.W. Washington. DC 20036. 


Payable In advance. Check. or money order Only Full 
& correct payment MUST accompany ALL orders. АП 
orders must be in writing. 


Deadline 1s Monday at noon Eastern Time for the fol- 
lowing Mondays issue Earlier deadlines apply for is- 
sues published during a week containing a legal holi- 
day and a special notice announcing the earlier 
deadline will be published above this ratecard. Orders. 
changes. and/or cancellations must be submitted in 
writing. NO TELEPHONE ORDERS. CHANGES. AND/ 
OR CANCELLATIONS WILL BE ACCEFTED. 


When placing an ad, indicate the EXACT category de- 
sired: Television, Radio or Allied Fields: Help Wanted or 
Situalions Wanted: Management, Sales News, etc. If 
thus information is omitted. we will determine Ihe appro- 
priate calegory according to the copy. NO make goods 
will be run if all information ts not included No personal 
ads. 


Rates: Classified listings (non-display). Per issue: Help 
Wanted: $1.00 per word, $18.00 weekly minimum Silu- 
ations Wanted : 604 per word. $9.00 weekly minimum. 
All other classifications: $1.10 per word. $18 00 weekly 
minimum. 


Rates: Classified display (minimum 1 inch. upward in 
half inch increments), per issue: Help Wanted: $80 per 
inch Situations Wanted: $50 per inch. All other Classifi- 
cations: $100 per inch. For Sale Stations. Wanted To 
Buy Stations. Public Notice & Business Opportunities 
advertising require display space. Agency commis- 
Sion Only on display space. 


Blind Box Service: (In addition to basic advertising 
costs) Situations Wanted: $4.00 per issue. All other 
Classifications. $7.00 per issue The charge for the 
blind box service applies to advertisers running listings 
and display ads. Each advertisement must have a Sep- 
arate box number BROADCASTING will not forward 
tapes. transcripts, writing samples. or other oversized 
materials; such materials are returned to sender. 


laplies to ads with Blind Box numbers should be ad- 
aressed to: (Box number), со BROADCASTING. 1705 
DeSales St., N.W., Washington, OC 20036. 


Word count: Count each abbreviation. initial. single 
figure or group of figures or letters as one word each. 
Symbols such as 35ram. COD, PD, etc. count as one 
word each. Phone number with area Code or zip code 
count as one word each. 


The publisher is not responsible for errors in printing 
due to illegible copy—all copy must be Clearly typed or 
printed. Any and all errors must be reported to the 
classified advertising department within 7 days of pub- 
lication date. No credits or make goods will be made 
on errors which do not materially affect the advertis- 
ment. 


Publisher reserves the righl to alter classified copy to 
conform wilh the provisions of Title Vit of the Civil Rights 
Act of 1964, as amended. Publisher reserves the right 
lo abbreviate. alter, or reject any copy. 


Media 


Appointments at American Television & 
Communications Corp., Englewood, Colo.- 
based cable television operator: Timothy 
Evard, head of corporate marketing depart- 
ment; Thomas Feige,VP of national divi- 
sion; John Field, division manager in in- 
vestments department; Stephen Kniffin, 
president of Denver division, Mile Hi Cab- 
levision; Jay Satterfield, president of In- 
dianapolis division, and Jack Stanley, presi- 
dent of ATC's Greensboro, N.C., division, 
named corporate VP's; H. Jack Roemer, 
director of investment accounting, elected 
assistant controller. 


Appointments at Cencom Cable Associates, 
Chesterfield, Mo.-based MSO: Robert Bai- 
ley, VP of construction, Group W Cable, 
New York. named group VP-operations; 
John Cousins, retired captain in U.S. Navy, 
named director-military liaison. 


Robert Schutt, VP and general manager, 
WDVE(FM) Pittsburgh, joins WRIF(FM) Detroit 
in same capacity. 


Patrick Scott, VP-station manager, KOMO- 
TV Seattle. named VP-general manager. 


Larry Alford, general manager, WBML(AM) 
Macon, Ga., joins KUXL(AM) Golden Valley, 
Minn., in same capacity. 


David Reeder, general 
WDCT(AM) Washington, 
manager. 


sales manager, 
named general 


Dan Lutgen, general sales manager, KTZZ- 
TV Seattle, named station manager. 


Sheldon Markoff, business manager, WGBO- 
TV Joliet, Ш., adds duties as station 
manager. 


Victor Garvey, manager, corporate events, 
NBC, New York, named director. corporate 
events and travel services. 


Doug Jones, VP of research, King Broad- 
casting Co., Seattle-based group owner of 
three AM’s, three FM's and five TV's, joins 
DKM Broadcasting Corp., Atlanta-based 


рыс... 
— — ( fates & Fortunesa 


group Owner of eight АМ and eight FM’s, 
as director of research. 


Stephen Martin, district manager for south- 
ern Illinois, Continental Cablevision of IHi- 
nois, Pekin, Ill., joins Continental Cablevi- 
sion of Michigan, East Lansing, Mich., as 
Eastern Michigan district manager. 


Marty Meyer, business manager, Bennett 
Broadcasting, Sherman Oaks, Calif., joins 
KCBS-TV Los Angeles as manager, studio 
operations. 


Susan Dutton, director of development and 
marketing, KNPB(TV) Reno, joins noncom- 
mercial KPBS-FM-TV San Diego as develop- 
ment manager. 


Marketing 


Appointments at Young & Rubicam Inc., 
New York: Klaus Gensheimer, associate 
creative director, named senior VP; Alistair 
Gillett, manager of art buying, named senior 
VP; C. Texas East, senior television produc- 
er, named VP of Y&R New York; Susan 
Bahr, manager, New Electronic Media; 
Mark Morrissey, account supervisor; Judith 
Reiss, account Supervisor, and Jane 
Quelch, account supervisor, named УР”. 


Edward Conlin, senior VP-managing direc- 
tor of technology group. Bozell, Jacobs, 
Kenyon & Eckhardt, Dallas, joins Tracy- 
Locke, Dallas, as senior VP-general man- 
ager of business and technology group. 


Arlene Kekalos, associate publisher, Man- 
hattan Inc., magazine, New York, joins Co- 
rinthian Communications as senior VP in 
charge of account services and new 
business. 


Appointments at Lintas:New York: Jack 
Eleftheriou, art director; Marie Connelly, 
director of advertising and marketing divi- 
sion of Special Libraries Association; Alida 
Gaines, network supervisor; Bob Knapp, 
account supervisor, and Ann Riddell, ac- 
count executive named VP's. 


The Most Experienced 
Executive Search Firm In Broadcasting. 


Joe Sullivan & Associates, Inc. 
Executive Search and Recruitment 
340 W. 57th St., New York, NY 10019 


(212) 765-3330 


The person you describe is the person we'll deliver. 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
14n 


William Morgan, account supervisor, 
D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles, St. 
Louis, joins HDM Dawson Johns & Black, 
Chicago, as VP-account director. 


Ronald Carter, VP and account supervisor, 
Barnes-Dennis & Associates, Greensboro, 
N.C., joins CRE, Indianapolis, Ind.-based 
marketing and communications agency, as 
VP of business development for consumer 
accounts. 


Gary Streiner, executive producer with 
Zone One, in-house production unit, DDB 
Needham Worldwide, New York, named 
VP. 


Allen Turner, director of market develop- 
ment, 7V Host, Harrisburg, Pa.-based pub- 
lisher of customized cable guides, Joins 
Greater Philadelphia Cable Interconnect as 
executive director. 


Appointments at WGBS-TV Philadelphia: Ed- 
ward Schaffer, local sales manager to gener- 
al sales manager; Rich Hammond, account 
eceuctive to local sales manager. 


Marla Drutz, promotion-marketing director, 
WJBK-TV Detroit, joins wxYZ-TV Detroit as 
director of sales research and retail 
development. 


Domenica Zagariello, account executive, 
WRKS-FM New York, joins Katz Radio, New 
York as account executive. 


Appointments at Mintz & Hoke Advertising 
and Public Relations, Avon, Conn.: Steven 
Raye, account executive, Cramer Krasselt, 
Milwaukee, named account supervisor; 
Richard Swietek, copy writer, Keilor Adver- 
tising, named to same position in Boston 
office; Todd Hoffman, senior account ex- 
ecutive, Durfee Advertising, Boston, to 
same capacity there; Tracey Churchill, as- 
sistant production and traffic manager, Har- 
land & Tine & White, named assistant traf- 
fic manager. 


Appointments at Access Syndication, Los 
Angeles: Pam Koch, account executive 
station. sales, Syndicast Services, New 
York, to manager, specials division; Peter 
Rosenberg, director of national sales ser- 
vices, Viacom, New York, to Northeast re- 
gional sales manager. 


Leni Salz, local broadcast supervisor of all 
program buying and syndication activity, 
RJR/Ohlmeyer, New York, joins Lintas- 
New York as director of local broadcast. 


Carol Terakawa, senior buyer, Della Femina 
Travisano, Los Angeles, joins Republic Ra- 
dio, New York as Los Angeles-based ac- 
count executive. 


Steve Herlocker, senior account executive, 
Independent Television Sales (ITS), New 
York, joins KTZZ-TV Seattle as national sales 
manager. 


Tiy Bowton, account executive, MMT Mar- 
keting, Los Angeles, joins Seltel, New 


York, as account executive for Los Angeles 
Raiders sales team. 


John Murtha, account executive, WABC(AM) 
New York, joins wINS(AM) there in same 
capacity. 

Susan Rivieccio, media buyer, Runyon- 
Saltzman Inc., Sacramento, Calif., joins 
KFBK(AM) there as account executive. 


Charles Martin, sales executive, Sperry & 
Associates, Raleigh, N.C., joins Katz Tele- 
vision as Charlotte, N.C.-based sales 
executive. 


Perry Karmin, director of broadcast media 
services, Faller, Klenk & Quinlan, Buffalo, 
N.Y., joins ICE Communications Inc., 
Rochester, N.Y.-based advertising firm, as 
media director. 


Elisa Vicari, computer operations manager, 
Harrington, Righter & Parsons, New York, 
joins Independent Television Sales, New 
York as computer manager. 


Programing 


Carl A. Russell, senior vice president, direc- 
tor of sales, MCA TV, retired Dec. 3l. 
Russell joined MCA TV in 1962 in com- 
pany's Atlanta office, where he became vice 
president, Southeast sales before moving to 
Chicago office in 1969, and New York office 
in 1975. Prior to MCA TV he was film 
program manager at WBKB-TV Chicago (now 
WLS-TV). He became senior vice president at 
MCA TV in 1980. Following his retirement 
Russell will become consultant. 


Appointments at QVC Network, West Ches- 
ter, Pa.: Douglas Briggs, senior VP, market- 
ing planning, named executive VP, pro 


) 

Briggs Giles 
graming; Ronald Giles, senior VP and ex- 
ecutive producer, named executive VP and 
executive producer. 

Bruce Swanson, director of national sales, 
Worldvision Enterprises Canada Ltd., New 
York, named VP and general manager. He 
succeeds Mel Watson who retires. 


Angela Gerken, VP revenue and business 
analysis, Home Box Office, New York, 
joins Showtime-The Movie Channel, New 
York, as VP, stratigic planning. 


Appointments at The Weather Channel, At- 
lanta: Tamra Davis, regional director, cen- 
tral region, named Eastern divisional direc- 
tor; Mary Hogan, regional director, Western 
region, named Western divisional director. 


Mark Gross, general sales manager, 
WBMW(FM) Mannassas, Va., joins Metro 
Traffic Control, Houstop-based traffic re- 
porting service, as regional director of mar- 


keting. Christopher Martin, marketing re- 
presentative-Los Angeles branch, United 
Insurance Co., Dallas, joins Metro Traffic 
Control, Kansas City, Mo., as marketing 
director. 


Jill Farren Phelps, supervising producer, 
Santa Barbara, NBC-TV, named executive 
producer. 


James (Jerry) Eaton, program manager, 
Group W's wJz-Tv Baltimore, joins co- 
owned KYw-Tv Philadelphia as program 
manager. 


Cicero Cadell Jr., acting program director, 
noncommercial WNVC(TV) Fairfax, Va., and 
WNVT(TV) Goldvein, Va., named program 
director. 


Jay Jarvis, program director-operations 
manager, WTIP(AM)-WVSR(FM) Charleston, 
W.Va., joins wGTZ(FM) Eaton, Ohio, as pro- 
gram director. 


Robert Day, advertis- 
ing and promotion 
manager, КССІ-Ту Des 
Moines, Iowa, named 


director of prog- 
raming. 

Judy Lisenby, admin- 
istrative assistant to 
president, KMGC(TV) 
Oklahoma City, 
named program 


director. 


News and Public Affairs 


Barry Keefe, news director, WCLR(FM) Sko- 
kie, Ш., named director of news and public 
affairs. 


Steve Raible, sports anchor, KIRO-TV Seat- 
tle, named sports director. 


Appointments at KCBS-TV Los Angeles: Val- 
erie Coleman, anchor of Sunday early 
news, adds duties as anchor of noonday 
news; Chris Conangla, anchor of weekday 
6 p.m. and 7 p.m. news, adds duties as 


noonday anchor. 


Appointments at KAKE-TV Wichita, Kan.: 
Lisa Price, anchor, First Edition newscast 
and Good Morning America cut-ins, named 
weekend news anchor. She replaces M.J. 
McKittrick, who resigns; Rhonda Scholt- 
ing, producer, early morning news and Mid- 
day Edition, named producer 10 p.m. 
news, She is replaced by Kevin Westhues, 
producer, KTKA-TV Topeka, Kan. 


Rich Marriott, avalanche meteorologist, 
U.S. Department of Commerce Forest 
Service Avalanche Center, Seattle, joins 
KING-Tv Seattle as weekend weather 
forecaster. 


Appointments at KMOV(TV) St. Louis: Faye 
DeHoff, freelance producer, ABCNewsone, 
affiliate relations department of ABC News, 
New York, named 6 p.m. news producer; 
Steven Perron, associate producer, WLS-TV 
Chicago, named producer. 


Cathy Chermol, associate producer and 
writer, Wall $treet Week With Louis Ru- 
keyser, PBS, Alexandria, Va., joins WTAE- 
TV Pittsburgh as associate producer of Pitts- 
burgh’s Talking. 
Ш! 


Technology 


James Chiddix, VP American Television & 
Communications Corp., Englewood, Colo.- 
based cable television operator, named sen- 
ior VP-engineering and technology. 


Chiddix Sarmento 
Ed Sarmento, president, Editel-Los Ange- 
les, joins Mediatech West, Hollywood, 


Engineering elections. Stanley N. Baron, managing director of the technical division, NBC 
Inc., New York, has been elected engineering vice president of the Society of Motion Picture 
and Television Engineers for 1988-89. He succeeds Richard G. Streeter, director, advanced 
development, CBS/ Broadcast Group, New York. He will supervise and coordinate the nine 
SMPTE technical committees. Baron was SMPTE engineering director, television, during the 


1986-87 term. 


SMPTE also announced that Richard K. Schafer of Eastman Кодак Co., Rochester, N.Y, 
will assume the new post of secretary-treasurer. Schafer, who was previously the society's 
treasurer, adds duties as secretary previously held by Richard J. Stumpf, vice president, 
engineering and development, Universal City Studios. 

Reelected as SMPTE officers were: Blaine Baker, president, MPL Film and Video Inc., 
Nashville, conference vice president (in charge of SMPTE's national conferences); Irwin W. 
Young, chairman, Du Art Film Laboratories and Du Art Video, New York, sections vice 
president (in charge of administering SMPTE's 21 regional sections and six student chap- 
ters); Stephen D. Kerman, director of sales, television division, Tektronix Inc., Beaverton, 


Ore., financial vice president. 


Stumpf is one of nine new SMPTE governors. Others elected were: Grant Dearnaley of the 
National Film Board of Canada; Charles B. Nairn, Communications Technology Inc., Hunts- 
ville, Аа.; John C. Gates, Gates Service Group, Natick, Mass.; Karl Renwanz, wNEV.TV 
Boston; Robert J. Ringer, RTS Inc., North Hollywood, Calif.; Bernard L. Dickens, CBS, 
New York; Earl V Higgns, Ampex Corp., Cumming, Ga.; Donna Foster-Roizen, Telegen, 


Palo Alto, Calif. 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
141 


Calif., as VP and general manager. 


Michael Vermillion, manager of GTE, Info- 
mart, Dallas, joins Teleconnect Long Dis- 
tance Services and Systems, Cedar Rapids, 
Iowa, as senior VP of field sales. 


Dixie Lee Anderson, VP of marketing, 
DUBS Inc., Los Angeles-based video dupli- 
cation service, named senior VP. 


Appointments at Sony Communications, 
New York: Patrick Murray, director of sales, 
Consumer Tape and Floppy Disk Division, 
Sony Magnetic Products Co., named VP of 
sales, Consumer Tape and Floppy Disk Di- 
vision; Lucian Rawls Ш, Southeastern dis- 
trict manager, named marketing manager 
display products; David Urry, sales engineer, 
in Southwest region for broadcast division, 
named marketing manager, Betacam pro- 
ducts; Gregg Bond, sales engineer, named 
marketing manager, production systems; 
Jerome Cohen, product manager for cam- 
eras, named marketing manager for broad- 
cast cameras and monitors, 


Thomas Keenze, 
consultant, Wegener 
Communications, 
Norcross, Ga., joins 
Ikegami Electronics 
(U.S.A.), Maywood, 
N.J., as sales man- 
ager, RF Equipment 
and Special Products 
Division, 


George Armes, mar- 
keting manager, in- 


Broad 


Keenze 


strumentation tape products, Ampex Corp., 
Redwood City, Calif., named general man- 
ager, instrumentation and data tape. 


Steve Flanagan, VP of engineering, Post- 
Newsweek Stations, Washington-based 
group owner of four television stations, 
joins Post-Newsweek’s WFSB(TV) Hartford, 
Conn., in same capacity. 


Le Fmmn Yd. 
Promotion and PR 


Edward Belkin, news director and executive 
editor, KYW(AM) Philadelphia, joins Shimer 
vonCantz, Philadelphia, as УР, public 
relations 


Glen Fortinberry, chairman and CEO, Ross 
Roy Group, Detroit-based advertising agen- 
cy, elected to board of directors, Anthony 
M. Franco Inc., Detroit-based public rela- 


tions firm. Ross Roy holds minority interest 
in Anthony Franco. 


Fortinberry Kulik 
Pam Kulik, community affairs director, 
KCCI-TV Des Moines, Iowa, named director 
of promotion, community affairs. 


castingz 


The Newsweekly of the Fifth Estate 
1705 DeSales St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036-4480 


Please send 
[] Broadcasting A Magazine 
О 3 years $190 


. (Check appropriate box) 


D 2 years $135 


O1 year 570 06 mos. $35 


(International subscribers add $20 per year) 


O Broadcasting 4 Cablecasting Yearbook 1987 
The complete guide to radio, TV cable and satellite facts and figures—$105. 
(if payment with order $90) Billable orders must be accompanied by com- 
pany business card or company purchase order. Off press March 1987. 
Please give street address for UPS delivery. 
To order by MASTERCARD, VISA or CHOICE credit cards, phone toll free 800-638-SUBS 


Name 


Company 
Address 
City 


Type of Business 


Signature 
trequired) 


State 


Title/Position 


О Payment enclosed 
D Bill me 


Home? YesO NoD 
Zip. 


Are you in cable TV operations O Yes 
О No 


For renewal or address change 
place most recent label here 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
142 


es 
Allied Fields 


Michael Packer, general manager, 
KTRH(AM) Houston and president of Packer 
Communications, Kingwood, Tex.-based 
broadcast management consultancy, adds 
duties as > consultant to — WRC(AM) 
Washington. 


Joseph Simonetti, mental-health director, 
Montefiore Hospital, New York, joins NBC 
Inc.'s, Employe Assistance program (EAP), 
New York, as employe assistance specialist. 


Karen Weimer, accounting manager, Ras- 
mussen Communications Management, 
Champaign, Ill.-based sports promotion 
firm, named business manager 


Susan Hill, director of library and informa- 
tion center, National Association of Broad- 
casters (NAB), Washington, named VP, li- 
brary and information center. 


Deaths 


Aaron Rubin, 72, for- 
mer NBC executive 
VP, died Dec. 23 at 
his home in Lake 
Worth, Fla., of mas- 
sive heart attack. Ru- 
bin joined NBC ac- 
counting department 
in 1937 moving to 
Blue Network, which 
later became Ameri- 
қ Broadcasting 

Rubin in 1970 Co., in 1942 as assis- 
tant controller. He became chief accountant 
of NBC in 1954 and VP and treasurer in 
1960. In 196] Rubin became financial ex- 
ecutive VP and in 1970 he was elected to 
board of directors. Rubin retired from NBC 
in 1977. He is survived by his wife, Mary, 
one son and one daughter. 


Herbert Dolgoff, 62, owner-operator of 
Florida radio stations, died Dec. 19 at Boca 
Raton, Fla., hospital of apparent heart at- 
tack. Dolgoff began his broadcasting career 
with Storz Broadcasting where he eventual- 
ly became VP-general counsel. In 1966 he 
became manager of Storz’s WQAM(AM) Mi- 
ami. In 1969 he moved to country formatted 
WWOK(AM), which is now Spanish-language 
WSUA(AM), as general manager. Three years 
later Dolgoff bought WCMQ(AM) Miami and 
instituted Latin music format. In 1985 he 
bought WTHZ(FM) Tallahassee, Fla., which 
he operated until his death. WCMQ(AM) was 
sold to Spanish Broadcasting System in 
1986. He is survived by wife, Lois, one son 
and one daughter. 


Marty Mills, 54, television reasearch execu- 
tive, died Dec. 6 of leukemia in his home in 
Stamford, Conn. Mills had been president 
of Marty Mills Associates, research com- 
munications firm. His previous positions 
included senior VP, director of marketing, 
LBS Communications; VP of marketing, 
Lorimar Television; director of programing, 
RKO Videogroup; and research director, 
Metro Media Television Sales, TeleRep and 
Metro TV Sales. He is survived by his wife, 
Toby, and one son. 


Making the case for cable 


Jack Cole has had a problem with the must- 
carry rules ever since they were adopted in 
the mid-1960's. 

So the 57-year-old communications attor- 
ney—the Cole in Cole, Raywid & Braver- 
man—has taken great pleasure in his promi- 
nent role in persuading the U.S. Court of 
Appeals in Washington two years ago to 
strike down the rules, which required cable 
operators to carry local broadcasts, and last 
month to do in a modified version of the 
rules as violations of cable operators’ First 
Amendment rights 

"It has always been my belief that govern- 
ment had no more right to tell a cable system 
what it had to carry in terms of content than 
it could tell a newspaper or magazine what it 
must publish," says Cole, who represented 
the operators who challenged the rules. 
"That essentially was the theory of our 
lawsuits." 

Cole, who speaks with a drawl that sug- 
gests he was raised farther south than he 
was, is an affable sort in an interview. But 
his reputation in dealing with the FCC and 
other members of the communications bar is 
for no-holds-barred advocacy. "He's a gutsy 
guy" says Henry Geller, the former FCC 
general counsel and former head of the Na- 
tional Telecommunications and Information 
Administration. "He goes right to the heart 
of the issue....He's painfully honest.” 

Every horizontal surface in Cole’s Wash- 
ington office is covered with the paper asso- 
ciated with a practicing lawyer. A large 
painting of an unidentified soldier stands 
guard over Cole's desk, a testament to an 
interest in antiques. 

Another picture tells of what seems to be 
a more passionate avocation. It is a 1983 
picture of the Cable Hackers in matching 
white polo shirts at Casa de Campo in the 
Dominican Republic. The Hackers are a 
group of cable executives including Dan- 
iels’s John Saeman, Uniteds Gene 
Schneider and Metrovision’s Henry Harris 
who used to gather once a year at some 
golfing mecca for an all-golf (no business, 
please) getaway. Cole laments that after 12 
years the tradition is petering out. 

Cole is that Washington oddity: a native. 
He was born in the city and grew up in the 
close-in suburb of Bethesda, Md. His father 
went from a job with a regulator (the Inter- 
state Commerce Commission) to one with 
the regulated (the Association of Southeast- 
em Railroads). 

Washington’s Woodrow Wilson High 
School class of 1948 may have made its 
impact in other fields, but its mark on com- 
munications law has been disproportionate- 
ly large. In addition to Cole, the class in 
cludes Washington communications attor- 
neys Robert Coll, Grover Cooper, Robert 
Jacobi, Richard Hildreth and Alan Raywid 
(Cole’s partner). 


JOHN Pope Сог Ја. —райпет, Cole, Raywid & 
Braverman, Washington; b. Jan. 12, 1930, 
Washington; BS, Auburn University, Auburn, 
Ala., 1953; JD, George Washington University, 
Washington, 1956; staff attorney Broadcast 
Bureau, FCC, 1956-57; attorney, Smith & 
Pepper, 1957-66; administrative aide, 
Representative Jack Flynt (D-Ga.), 1962-63 
(on leave of absence from Smith & Pepper); 
present position since March 1966; m. Patsy 
Nan Moss, March 20, 1960; children—John, 
26; Nina, 16. 
Е Á сече сас атты 

After graduating from Auburn in 1953 
and George Washington University Law 
three years later, Cole went to work as a staff 
attorney with the FCC. After a year, he 
joined the start-up law firm of Smith & 
Pepper, where he became immersed in the 
regulatory struggles of the budding cable 
industry. E. Stratford Smith, one of the 
firm’s partners, was the executive secretary 
of the National Community Antenna Asso- 
ciation, the predecessor of the National Ca- 
ble Television Association. 

In 1962, the firm granted Cole a leave of 
absence to work for a year for Representa- 
tive Jack Flynt (D-Ga.), a member of the 
House Communications Subcommittee, as 
an administrative assistant. Cole said he 
took the temporary job to get another per- 
spective on communications policy-making. 

Upon his return to the firm, Cole was 
made a partner. But he stayed for only three 
more years. In March 1966, he and the late 
Roger Zylstra broke away to form their own 
two-man firm, which gradually evolved into 
Cole, Raywid & Braverman with 23 attor- 
neys. Raywid joined the firm a year after its 
formation from the Justice Department; Burt 
Braverman became a “name partner" in 
1979 when Zylstra left to try his hand as a 
cable entrepreneur. 

Because of Cole’s roots, the firm has been 
principally a “cable firm.” But over the 
years, Cole says, it has successfully expand- 
ed into broadcasting, telephone and other 
types of litigation. 

Cole sees his 30 years of representing 
cable operators as a continuous struggle to 
slip out of regulatory restraints imposed by 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
143 


the FCC at the urging of broadcasters. 
“Broadcasters already had a great influence 
at the commission and were able to put some 
very substantial roadblocks in the way of 
cable development,” Cole says. “Must carry 
was just a continuation of that," 

Cole first questioned the heavy regulation 
of cable in light of the First Amendment in 
filings and articles in the early 1960's. In an 
American University Law Review article in 
1965, Cole termed the must-carry rules and 
the distant-signal rules, which, before their 
deletion in 1980, limited the number of 
distant signals a cable system could carry, 
"prior restraint" and said there were "serious 
questions" about whether they were com- 
patible with the First Amendment. 

He got his chance to put his legal argu- 
ments to work in 1979 when Clifton Collins, 
owner of a small cable system, Quincy Ca- 
ble TV, Quincy, Wash., came to him com- 
plaining about the FCC rules that forced him 
to carry duplicative network affiliate signals 
from Seattle and Spokane. Collins, who 
Cole says is a friend as well as a client, “was 
upset, to say the least, with the government 
telling him what he had to carry on his 
system." 

Cole urged his friend to challenge the 
rules. "It was essentially my idea not to 
capitulate to the rule because I had felt all 
along that the rule was content-oriented, that 
it was a violation of the speech clause of the 
First Amendment...that he had an excellent 
case," he says. 

After losing "at every single stage" at the 
FCC, Cole says, Quincy went to the U.S. 
Court of Appeals in Washington in February 
1983. The court combined the case with a 
similar case by Turner Broadcasting System 
charging that the rules were a violation of 
the First Amendment rights of cable pro- 
gramers, and, in 1985, rattled the broadcast- 
ing and cable industries with its finding that 
the rules were unconstitutional. 

With the help of the National Cable Tele- 
vision Association, the broadcasters man- 
aged to persuade the FCC to adopt new rules 
that were less burdensome to cable opera- 
tors. The NCTA played along to keep the 
National Association of Broadcasters from 
allying itself with efforts to impose new 
regulations on cable. But individual cable 
operators were no happier with the new 
rules than they were with the old. Cole 
gathered some of them together and chal- 
lenged the new rules in the court. The court 
knocked them out on Dec. 11. 

Immediately following the latest deci- 
sion, Cole said he doubted whether the FCC 
or Congress would resurrect must carry, 
quipping that he was "too old to fight must- 
carry III.” But the assumption in Washing- 
ton communications circles is that, should 
must carry sprout up again over the objec- 
tions of some cable operators, Cole would 
be among the first with an axe to try to chop 
it down again. а 


(ШЕ © 


In Nielsen Cassandra report for November 1987 released on Friday, 
Dec. 30, Wheel of Fortune (appearing in 199 markets covering 
99.3% of the country) was again top-ranked show with 19 rating. It 
was followed by P.M. Magazine (26 markets covering 24.7%) with 
12.3 rating; Jeopardy (189 markets covering 98.796 of the country) 
with 12.1; and The Oprah Winfrey Show (190 markets covering 
98.8% of the country) with 10.5. P.M. is distributed by Group W 
Productions and other three shows are distributed by King World. 
Family Ties, from Paramount, (172 markets covering 94% of the 
country) was highest ranked off-network show with 8 rating, and 
Duck Tales, from Buena Vista, (145 markets covering 92% of the 
country) was highest-ranked animated show. 


0 


Following second attempt to sell The Cosby Show in 22 markets іп 
which no station bid on show when it was originally offered, Viacom 
decided last week to reject all offers it received in those markets. 
Only market of 22 in which no station bid was Tampa, Fla. 
(BROADCASTING, Dec. 28, 1987). Viacom is not accepting second 
bids in re-bid markets, it said, because it does not want to 
compromise records established in 169 markets that bought 
Show. 


о 


Woman sound engineer working for NBC News in Burbank. Calif., 
has filed $10-million sex discrimination suit against NBC. Lee Ser- 
rie, who has been with network 12 years, charges in suit filed in 
Los Angeles County Superior Court that she has been denied 
promotion to camera operator because of network's “unlawful and 
discriminatory practices." Complaint alleges that she has been 
denied equal treatment in employment because of her sex. It says 
NBC News employes no women camera operators and only three 
women sound engineers. In addition to seeking $10 million in 
punitive damages, suit seeks court order barring NBC from en- 
gaging in discrimination and directing NBC to give Serrie next 


This month's meeting of the National Association of Broadcasters 
radio board in Hawaii (Jan. 18-21) has all the potential for a civil 
war. The board could become polarized along class lines (A's 
versus B's and C's) over an engineering proposal that would 
enable some class A FM stations to "double their power from 3 to 6 
kilowatts." Under the pian, approved by a special NAB FM trans- 
mission subcommittee, roughly 6096 of the nation's class A's could 
increase their power. But others, especially class A's in the 
Northeast (New Jersey and New York in particular) where the 
region is already crowded by FM stations, would not be able to 
upgrade because the subcommittee feels it would create interfer- 
ence to other classes of FM stations. If the board approves, the 
proposal will be submitted to the FCC as a petition for rulemaking. 

The directors also will be asked to endorse a new policy state- 
ment on spectrum allocation issues in general. improvement of 
services would be authorized, "but only to the extent that it 
doesn't create interference." And the board must decide whether 
to approve a staff recommendation to seek a freeze on all AM 
allocations until the FCC completes its AM technical standards 
proceeding. 

As for the class A situation, New Jersey and New York broad- 
casters have already started to register their concerns. According 
to Joe Reilly, president and executive director of the New York 
State Broadcasters Association, 70% of the FM facilities in New 
York are class A's. "There's no question our area has more than a 
passing interest in this," said Reilly, who is monitoring the situa- 
tion. It's not normally an issue NYSBA would get involved in and 
he "trusts the NAB board will strike a true compromise that is fair 
to everyone." 

The New Jersey Class A Broadcasters Association, chaired by 
Bob McAllan of wJLk-FM Asbury Park, N.J., has already petitioned 
the FCC with its own plan to upgrade class A's. McAllan met with 
the NAB subcommittee members to discuss his proposal, but 


camera operator position that becomes available. Serrie is beit 
represented by Los Angeles attorney John Huerta, with Natior 
Organization for Women Legal Defense and Education Fund 
counsel for plaintiff. Serrie, in news release issued by NOW LDE 
says she filed suit after eight months of trying to discuss h 
complaint with network. "They have refused to face it." NE 
Spokesperson said on Wednesday NBC could not comment sin: 
network lawyers had not yet seen Serrie's suit. 
g 


Tele-Communications Inc. has withdrawn franchise application 
overbuild NYT Cable's system in Cherry Hill, N.J. (BROADCASTI? 
Dec. 21, 1987). TCI cited changed set of circumstances—entry 
second bidder, Irving Kahn's Choice Cable TV—among reasc 
for pullout. Kahn plans to incorporate fiber optic technology in ] 
system. NYT's renewal and Choice's franchise application will 
taken up by township's cable advisory board оп Jan. 20. TCI Е 
also applied for franchise in Stratford, N.J. where NYT owned 
New York Times Co., also operates and where Kahn wants 
build. Company has yet to make decision on that applicatio: 
o 


Los Angeles based syndicator, The Entertainment Network, fil 
for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in Los Angeles. Followi 
filing, production of Top of the Pops, weekly, one-hour CBS k 
night pop music series, was returned to BBC Enterprises subs 
iary Lionheart Television, by original agreement between Bl 
and TEN in case of financial difficulties at TEN. Top of the Pops 
long-time hit on BBC-TV in England. 
Ü 


Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev last week was assured of having | 
New Year's greetings broadcast to American people on М 
Year's Day. What was not sure was whether Soviet Union tele 
sion would carry President Reagan's greetings to Soviet peop 
ABC News announced on Wednesday it would carry two leade 


Battle brewing over class A FM's? 


according to NAB's Michael Rau, vice president for science and 
technology, the New Jersey plan did not ease the subcommittee's 
concems about possible interference. The subcommittee, Rau 
said, wanted to insure that class A's could increase their power 
but not to the detriment of the entire broadcast system. 

"It's basically correct that many class A's in the Northeast may 
not benefit from this, but the subcommittee felt this was better for 
the industry as a whole," Rau said. He added that it would be 
impossible to upgrade all those stations without "taking a bit out of 
other stations." John Marino of NewCity Communications, Bridge- 
port, Conn., chairs the subcommittee. 

Since that session, however, McAllan's proposal has been re- 
vised (a supplement was filed at the FCC late last month) to 
incorporate new information. "We've reengineered the whole 
thing, so that the typical gain for class A's under this scenario will 
increase their coverage by about 4096," he said. The new filing 
includes an analysis of the FCC's table of allocations and shows 
that class A's can be upgraded with "de minimis or no impact to 
the vast majority of stations of other classes," McAllan said. 

Rau said he will look at the new McAllan рап. “I can't say what 
the subcommittee will do," he added. 

Like McAllan, Peter Amow of wDHA-FM Dover, N.J., is worried 
about the fate of his class A station. Amow has started a campaign 
to alert the industry to the issue. He has attracted the attention of 
another class A broadcaster and board member, William 
O'Shaughnessy of wRTN(FM) New Rochelle, N.Y. O'Shaughnessy 
represents New York and New Jersey and was sympathetic. “It 
seems the ones who would lose in the interim are the A's. It is 
indeed a difficult issue. As a holder of class A's, I might have to 
disqualify myself from voting, but I would imagine [directors with] 
class B's and C's would have the same dilemma," he said. "This 
could be the biggest battle on the shores of Hawaii," O'Shaugh- 
nessy added. 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


144 


3ages—each running about five-and-a-half minutes—begin- 
at 11:50 a.m. on Friday. CBS News decided not to carry 
sages but to use excerpts in Evening News. NBC News on 
nesday had not made decision. But it is no longer only major 
rorks that are to be considered in such matters. TV Direct, 
venture of Conus and AP, announced early in week it would 
n messages by satellite to some 900 television stations 
pped with Ku-band receive earth stations. It was to begin 
;smitting at 11 a.m., when embargo was to be lifted. CNN also 
to carry messages at that time. And C-SPAN said it would 
;mit messages three times during day, first time at 4:30 p.m. 
ever, White House on Friday had not yet heard Soviets' plans. 
st embassy spokesman could not be reached. 


n 


cast Corp. announced that its subsidiary, Comcast Cable of 
land Inc., general partner of Comcast Cablevision of Maryland 
Partnership has offered to purchase all its limited partnership 
ests for $118,363 each and assumption of $12,400 final 
iment on promissary notes—total of about $122 million. Com- 
said deal is conditioned on approval of at least 75% of shares 
release of lenders. Offer will expire Feb. 1. 
a 


ator Paul Simon (0-Ш.) employed satellite technology last 
nesday (Dec. 30, 1987) to reach voters in 10 Southern states 
3 trying to influence in his quest for Democratic presidential 
ination. Simon, in studio of WwLTv(TV) Miami, was interviewed 
nchors and political correspondents of 11 television stations. 
es represented are among 20 that will be involved in Super 
sday primaries on March 8. Interviews, which ran about five 
Jtes each, were relayed by Westar IV to foliowing stations: 
-Tv Houston; WTvD(Tv) Raleigh-Durham, N.C.; wAGA-Tv Atlan- 
NBRC-Tv Birmingham and wsFA-TV Montgomery, both Ala- 
а; WDSU-Tv New Orleans; wLBT(Tv) Jackson, Miss.; WLXT(TV) 
mbia, S.C.; wTKR-Tv Norfolk, Va.; WAVE-Tv Louisville, Ky. 

-Tv Fort Myers. Fla. News departments had editorial control. 

a 


over week before Jan. 9 launch of Prairie Home Companion 
icement, Good Evening (BROADCASTING, Dec. 7), American 
ic Radio said last week 165 stations have confirmed carriage of 
rday evening program for first six months—just over half of 
5 315 affiliates. Stations getting on board at launch are 
iving “early carriage incentive grant" amounting to 50% 
ount. 

o 
up W Productions and Reeves Entertaiment Group will bring back 
s Most Embarrassing Moments in syndication as weekly one- 
r series for fall 1988. Show wil be produced by Woody Fraser 
luctions, and hosted by ESPN sportscaster Roy Firestone. 
ier was executive producer of 10 Life's Most Embarrassing 
nents specials that aired between 1983 and 1986, and will act 
nat capacity on new series. 

a 


2 Chairman Dennis Patrick will be on stump twice this week in 
Angeles. On Wednesday (Jan. 6), he will tell members of the 
ywood chapter of Academy of Television Arts and Sciences 
; production community will benefit from increasingly com- 
tive television marketplace, which is producing more demand 
»rograming. The following day, at Association of Independent 
2vision Stations convention, he will remind independent 
idcasters of recent successes and tell them that in wake of 
rt action repealing must-carry rules they should do some long- 
je planning 
D 

e's growing awareness of value of promotion is evident in push 
stry is making surrounding Jan. 24 ACE awards program. Total 
3 cable program services are promoting awards in their 
пат schedules. Number of billing companies have included 
i messages and graphics in over 25 million bills for month of 
lary, while some cable program guides are running free 
2rtisements on awards. Cable programing service, Movietime, 
inning clips of ACE nominated programing throughout its 
жше in January, and UA Columbia is producing three half- 


e — i=! 


Tower trouble. The 2,000-foot broadcast tower of Allbritton 
Communications’ KTUL-TV Tulsa, Okla., collapsed on Saturday, 
Dec. 26, during an ice storm. The station remained black tor 
nearly 24 hours after the incident. Said Jerry Fritz, head of 
engineering for Alibritton, "It's clearly a tragedy on our part but 
fortunately no one was hurt." 

Power went out at about 3 p.m. in the Tulsa area during the 
storm, knocking KTUL-Tv off the air. Before the electricity was 
restored, the tower in Coweta, Okla., 26 miles from the Tuisa 
studio location, had been felled, apparently by a heavy accu- 
mulation of ice. The tower collapsed on itself, leaving the 
transmitter building unharmed. 

Within 24 hours after the collapse, KTUL-Tv was able to begin 
transmissions to the local cable TV system, United Cable 
Television's Tulsa Cable TV, which penetrates about 40% of 
the Tulsa market. According to KTUL-Tv engineering manager, 
Roman Hlohowskyj, the signal was first transmitted by satellite 
to the Tulsa Cable headend. The station's Conus SNG vehicle 
was used to send the signal over MCT's SBS III Ku-band 
satellite. Approximately five hours later a direct microwave link 
was established. 

Hlohowsky] said that the next goal was to put temporary 
over-the-air antenna facilities into operation by late last week. 
It was hoped that a 20 kw signal could be transmitted to reach 
up to 6056-7096 of the KTUL-Tv service area. After that, he said, 
the station would try to set up higher power temporary facilities 
during construction of a new tower, which could begin in three 
to five months, he estimated. 

No estimate of the cost due to the tower loss could be given. 
About $2.5 million was paid to construct it in 1964, Hlohowskyj 
said. When the cost of building a modern tower is determined, 
it will have to added to the loss of advertising revenue during 
the crisis as well as the intangible loss of audience. KTUL.Tv, an 
ABC affiliate, is the top rated stauon in the Tulsa market. "The 
challenge," Hlohowskyj said, "will be to get back on the air as 
Soon as possible to recapture our audience that may have 
sampled other stations.' 


= 


hour promotiona! programs, one including interview with Nation- 
al Academy of Cable Programing Chairman Ralph Baruch, that 
will be donated to Arts & Entertainment and Tempo Television 
networks. HBO will carry awards ceremony live at 9 p.m. 
D 

National Academy of Cable Programing announced last week two 
new appointments to 40-member board: Peter Chernin, president 
and chief operating officer, Lorimar Film Entertainment, and John 
Hendricks, chairman and chief executive officer, Discovery 
Channel. 


Hy Badler, VP of operations for CBS operations and engineering 
division in Washington, retires after 37 years with CBS. Badler is 
also fellow and governor of Society of Motion Picture and Televi- 
sion Engineers. 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 


145 


GOMMITTED TO THE FIRST AMENDMENT з THE FIFTH ESTATE 


On keeping powder dry 


There'll be good news and bad news in abundance at this week's 
Los Angeles convention of the Association of Independent 
Television Stations. Perhaps the brightest item will be recogni- 
tion of how well the independents are performing in the market- 
place, and how much better the perception of that performance 
might be were INTV successful in getting the rating services to 
change their ways. Probably the most somber consideration will 
be given to the subject of must carry: how to live without it and/ 
or how to get it back. 

We're hard put to advise the association on either of those last 
named points, except to share our view that this is no time for a 
call to arms. Cable can neither be wished away nor bashed away 
at this point in telecommunications development. Dialogue's the 
way to go 


Ambush 


A monkeywrench of uncommon proportions—and so far uniden- 
tified origin—has been thrown into the policy works by Con- 
gress's enacting a provision prohibiting repeal of the FCC's 
newspaper-broadcast crossownership rules. The first casualty is 
Rupert Murdoch, whose hopes to hold on to the New York Post 
and the Boston Herald are reduced to the infinitesimal by this 
action. Whether he was the intended victim or merely an inno- 
cent bystander has yet to emerge from the web of senatorial 
courtesy woven round the incident. 

It all happened in considering the continuing resolution that 
will fund these United States for the next year (the same CR that 
did not recodify the fairness doctrine). Senator Ernest Hollings 
(D-S.C.), at the request of a colleague (rumored to be Edward 
Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat), inserted the provision 
decreeing the status quo for another year. 

The action ties the hands not only of the FCC—which had 
begun to entertain discussion of this long-overdue subject—but 
of all the other parties at interest as well, and particularly the 
Freedom of Expression Foundation, which had petitioned for a 
rulemaking. It has long been evident that the best way to insure 
diversity, viability and a level playing field among media inter- 
ests is to let everyone play. The newspaper-broadcast area would 
have been a good place to start. 


Hart bashes press 


Presidential pretender Gary Hart has chosen a broad brush for his 
criticism of the media—criticism occasioned in part by the role 
of the press in his mercurial political fortunes. 

In a bylined Washington Post op-ed piece culled from a 
November speech at Yale University, the former senator paints an 
unflattering portrait of the journalistic standards and practices of 
the Fourth and Fifth Estates. Hart pauses at one point in his 
discussion to make this comment: "[A] headline is being com- 
posed by someone whose attention span has just been exhausted 
which reads: ‘Hart Bashes Press.’ Wrong." No, right. This 
page's attention span stretched to painful limits, we proceed to 
other Hart observations that fully justify the headline he deplores: 

“So-called innovations such as CNN and USA Today represent 
sophisticated news packaging, not news collection. More diver- 
sity has not increased competition in serious news gathering 
...competition in news media has occurred in the style and form 
of presentation, not in improved substantive quality" In the 


Editorialsg 


category of “our news simple and our politics spicy,” Hart lumps 
USA Today and ABC News-Break, then throws in the National 
Enquirer for bad measure. 

Expanding his criticism, Hart asks: “How far are we prepared 
to go as a society to peek into areas hitherto precluded? Should 
candidates be surreptitiously surveilled by reporters or private 
individuals? Should hidden cameras be used? How far should 
anonymous tips be pursued? Should rumors and gossip be widely 
printed? Should reporters tell untruths to obtain sensational 
responses? What are the limits?" 

All good questions, some with answers that are clearly “no.” 
But Hart adds that "even asking such questions" seems “a far cry 
from the America of Jefferson and Madison" and “more like what 
might occur in police-state capitals." Come again? Holding 
public officials accountable and subjecting them to press and 
public scrutiny are police-state practices? Sounds to us more like 
the democracy the writers of the First Amendment had in mind. 
True, the limits of press scrutiny deserve debate and get it, daily, 
in editorial decisions made in newsrooms across the country. 

Oversimplification is a handy rhetorical device, but it does 
little to further the debate over journalistic ethics. There is not, as 
Hart suggests, some universal "media filter" that eschews sub- 
stance and passes anything that promises to sell. There are, 
instead, tough choices made by professionals in a business that 
demands hard choices and a country that cherishes the freedom to 
make them. 


Curiouser and curiouser 


The Senate Commerce Committee's report on S. 899 was re- 
leased last week (see page 112). That's the bill that would force 
cable programers to accept third parties to distribute their pro- 
gram services to dish owners (BROADCASTING, Nov. 23, 1987, et 
seq.). The committee concluded that legislation was needed to 
insure that dish owners receive cable programing at reasonable 
prices. What evidence did it cite for reaching that conclusion? 
According to the language of the report, the evidence presented 
at hearings "demonstrated that scrambled signals of cable pro- 
graming are being made available to dish owners at prices 
comparable to those being charged cable subscribers" and that 
"all of the cable programing services that scramble now distrib- 
ute their programing to dish owners.” Are we missing something 
here? From the evidence that the marketplace is working fine, the 
committee concludes that it is not —predicting in its paranoia that 
the market structure now accounting for that equitable distribu- 
tion will not do so in some unknown future. The ghost of Lewis 
Carroll writes again. 


Drawn for BROADCASTING by Jack Schmidt 


“Whoever dreamed up the term ‘wireless cable’ never worked 
here.” 


Broadcasting Jan 4 1988 
14f 


Distinctive Fellowships for 
Media Professionals and Educators 


The Gannett Center for Media Studies invites applications for its 
1988—89 Residential Fellowship Program. 


Tbe Gannett Center Fellows 

The great problems facing the media 
and society are too important to be 
left unexplored and unexplained. 
Residential fellowships at the Gannett 
Center for Media Studies at Columbia 
University are open to outstanding 
media professionals and educators 
with ideas that have the potential for 
elevating and advancing public 
understanding of mass communica- 
tion and technological change. 


Since 1985 Fellows have taken up 
topics ranging from the coverage of 
business and poverty to AIDS and 
public health. Others have studied 
media leadership, media economics, 
ethics and fairness, media influence, 
the status of minorities and women 
and journalism education. 


Each project is unique. Each fel- 
lowship experience one-of-a-kind. 
It's an opportunity designed for the 
professional committed to exploring 
the enduring issues of our times. 


Wbat Fellows do 

They produce books, articles and 
monographs; develop new concepts 
for print and electronic media; 
create curricula and training 
programs. 


Types of fellowsbips 

The Center welcomes Fellows at 
three levels of attainment— dis- 
tinguished senior people; those at 
midcareer; and younger profession- 
als and scholars with 5 to 8 years 
of experience. 


B Fellowsbip support 
Stipends are based on present salary. 
Housing allowance for non-residents, 
research and other staff assistance 
and office space are available. 


B Appointment provisions 
Fellows are in full-time residence 
for a period ranging from 3 to 12 
months. 


ш Eligibility and 
selection criteria 
Media professionals or college and 
university teachers engaged in jour- 
nalism education, media studies or 
research on mass communication and 
technological change are invited to 
apply. 
Applicants should submit a letter of 
application, a brief summary of their 


proposed project, a resume, references 


and publications or work samples. 
Projects on issues and problems of 
major importance are preferred to 
those of more limited focus. Special 
consideration is given to topics on 


freedom of expression, media econom- 


ics, new communications technology, 
professionalism, the education and 
training of journalists and other com- 
municators, as well as minorities and 
women. 


Appointments will be based on (a) the 
proposal's significance and quality; (b) 


the applicant's ability to carry out the 
work; and (c) the relevance of the 
project to the resources of the Center 
and its New York City location. 


B How to apply 
Deadline for submission of applica- 
tion materials is February 1, 1988. 
Appointments will be announced in 
April 1988. Direct all materials and 
inquiries to: 


Gannett Center Fellowships 
Gannett Center for Media Studies 
Columbia University 

2950 Broadway 

New York, New York 10027 
212/280-8392 


1987-88 Gannett Center Fellows 


Senior Fellows 
Ralph M. Baruch, former president, chief executive officer 
and chairman, Viacom international, Inc. 


Asa Briggs, Lord Briggs of Lewes, provost of Worcester 
College, Oxford, England. 


Ernest Leiser, former vice president, CBS News. 


Gerald Lesser, Bigelow Professor of Education and 
Developmental Psychology, Harvard University. 

Fellows 

Jane Brown, associate professor. Center for Research in 
Journalism and Mass Communications, University of North 
Carolina, Chapel Hill. 


Loren Ghiglione, editor and publisher, Tbe News, 
Southbridge, Massachusetts. 


Garth Jowett, professor. School of Communication, 
University of Houston. 


James Kinsella, editorial page editor, Los Angeles 
Herald-Examiner. 


John Lawrence, assistant managing editor of economic 
allairs, Los Angeles Times. 

Kari Marton, former Bonn bureau chief, ABC News, and 
author of Wallenberg. 


Paul Perry, executive editor, American Health. 


Research Fellows 
Victoria Fung, co-anchor and senior producer, KCTS-TY, 
Seattle. 


Timothy Miller, technology writer. 


Gannett Center 
for Media Studies 


A Gannett Foundation Program 
| at Columbia University 


BRINGS IT HOM 
DEPENDENTS 


THE NEW: SMAKERS. 
THE GLOBAI COVERA aa 
- -, THE PRESTIGE OF 
FULLY COMPETITIV E 
DAILY NETWORK NEWSCAST. 


America's premier independent newscast. Delivered by satellite to 122 stations. 


PLAN NOW TO ATTEND INN'S 
NEWSMAKER FORUM AT INTY 


CASPAR W. | 
WEINBERGER 


His first address since leaving office. The former Secretary 
of Defense speaks out—and answers your questions — on 
the Summit, national defense and Election ‘88. 


: 6:00 PM THURSDAY, JANUARY 7 
FNENDCQENOEAT NERS, CENTURY PLAZA HOTEL, LOS ANGELES 


11 WPIX PLAZA, NEW YORK 10017 


A Tribune Broadcasting Company VISIT US AT INTV SUITE 534 


