The Fifth Estate 
Broadcasting и Jan 16 


у 


KO 


D | 


ELI MI M 


x 


£01*50 Jw 


1S Hif 


3N1 VW кузні 
f 5M c66?vVv 


£22x3$5222222 


Р 2 эс 
Ффшилбо > 
eA LIAM IE 
tad ada 
$ ща + 
my OC v 
Фао wong 
OND леа. 


DOWN 12% 


—— 


DOWN 5% DOWN 7% Ы. DOWN 27% 


Р № ۴ , 
1 m Е { Н 
EE Пу 


Source: NSI % Change in Share, 
Nov. ‘B8 vs. Nov.'87 
Top 100 Markets, Access/Affitiate Cleoronces ©1989 Poromount Pictures Corporation. АЙ rights re: 


BACK-TO-BACK 
ACTION HOURS 


OF PRIME TIME 
AND WEEKENDS 
FOR WWOR-TV. 


} n the never ending battle for viewers, 
WWOR-TV Channel 9 has created a potent 
weapon against movies: BACK-TO-BACK 
ACTION HOURS. 


PRIMETIME: 

Back-to-Back HUNTER and Back-to- 
Back A TEAM outperformed affiliate. and 
independent movies with young adults. 


WEEKENDS: 

Back-to-Back A TEAM beat everything 
the indies and affiliates threw against it. And 
so did Back-to-Back KNIGHT RIDER. 


The block of Back-to-Back KNIGHT 
RIDER and Back-to-Back A TEAM was 
stronger than many weekday strips including 
“Cheers,” "A Current Affair," “Family Feud" 
and “Win, Lose or Draw.” 


With a weekend record like that, it’s easy 
to see why Back-to-Back KNIGHT RIDER 
has just been added to Channel 9’s Prime 
Time lineup. 


BACK-TO-BACK ТНЕ WAY TO GO: 

If you’ve been looking for a potent 
advertising vehicle, climb up on our Back-to- 
Back Action Hours. It’s the surest way to get 
where you’re going. 


WWOR-TV 


Source AC Nielsen/Oct. '88 


88's MOST REWARDING SPECIAL 


BECOMES 89's MOST EXCITING SERIES. 


At the end of 1088, MISSING/REWARD | 


سے سم — 


gave TV audiences an intrigüing look at 


the huge rewards offered for the return of 


28” ef" missing реор1ё and Objects. Fram M.I.A.s 


JI to acus swords and even Marilyn 


fioe $ red diary. 


С Eco omms на س‎ 


[For fall 14989. that successful reality | 


Е < 2^ fier 
LS eer beco: I a Gompelling half-hour 

a ie 2 n 
|. E. dk sirieg E viding со with 
EN a E же 
d M р Н экеу ранае toe experience the 
A. DES. rt roo 7€ mia 

^ + ‘ое ‘stories af enous disappearances 

La "vh м » 
1 x >Я | ed. С 

a | jane to cash in on the rewards. 
> * — $e سس‎ Ey. 
¥ ш! " { " S | у 4 м, Ж 
M ==, "T $ = 
b УА; x - > СА 
^ E NE E ir 
8 i a 1 
E is Am E 
3v 52 
2 57 3 
FE ped 
PRODUCED BY ` E (um 


DAVE BELL ASSOCIATES INi Ay AON WITH 


AND So TED. BY GROUP "2 


S 
r "г 

4 Broadcasters —— 

y Producing or 3 
Broadcasters 


Dire Вел Av jc wie Me 


© 1989 Group W Productigfa- 


TV that pays you to watch. 


Мо!. 116 №. 3 


Broadcasting: Jan 16 


In the heat of late 


night... two weeks and one week, 
respectively, under their belts, early ratings for new 


+ч “<. 
Sajak with The Judds 


Hall 
late night talk show hosts Arsenio Hall and Pat Sajak 
seem to indicate both programs are exceeding 
initial expectations. PAGE 43. 


ESPN baseball: the long 


PUM aan Although ESPN President and CEO Roger 
Werner Jr. does not expect to make big profit on 
four-year Major League Baseball contract, package is 
expected to increase cable service's year-round 
viewing in all dayparts. PAGE 45. 


NAB goes west, Among topics 


expected to be discussed at National Association of 
Broadcasters’ joint board meeting in Arizona are 
fairness doctrine, must-carry and proposed $15.7 
million FY '89 budget. PAGE 46. 


الس _ 


50/MORE MONEY 
FOR DBS VENTURE 


UK direct broadcast satellite 
project, British Satellite 
Broadcasting, gets additional 
$238 million boost from investors 
as it prepares to compete 
head-to-head with Rupert 


54/NATPE '89: 
KEEPING PACE 


Under banner of "The Art and 
the Impact of Television,’ this 
year's NATPE International 


Murdoch's Sky Television ^ THE 
group. ) ART AND 

| IMPACT OF 
86/RADIO RATINGS: TELEVISION 
MARKETS SIX-TEN МАТРЕ 


Compared to results during 
same quarter in 1987, AOR 
formatted stations in top 10 
markets generally show drop in 
share during fall 1988 


gathering in Houston is 
expected to draw crowds on 


Arbitron ratings. par with last year's convention. 


Agenda and exhibitor listings 
also begin on page 54. 


92/INTV WRAPUP 


Although some suppliers at 
Association of Independent 
Television Stations say sales 
were sluggish-to-moderate as 
expected, others report sales 
exceeding expectations. 


93/COMEDY 
BACK TO BACK 


NBC Entertainment President 
Brandon Tartikoff says NBC will 
run, as one-time experiment, 
full night of network's most 
popular comedy series in 
prime time. 


94/VOTE OF 
CONFIDENCE 


In face of speculation that 
CBS's entertainment division 
would undergo personnel 
changes because of its low 
rated first-year programing 
this season, CBS/Broadcast 
Group President Howard 
Stringer says he's "completely 
satisfied" with CBS 
Entertainment President Kim 
LeMasters and his team at 
CBS Entertainment. In related 
story on page 44, LeMasters 
talks about moving network out 
of third place. 


95/YEAR LATER 


Fox Broadcasting Co.'s 

second annual affiliates meeting 
in Los Angeles is upbeat, 

with expressions of confidence 
in FBC's expansion plans. 


96/REAGAN'S 
FINAL BUDGET 


President Ronald Reagan's 
final budget provides FCC with 
funding commission says it 
can live with and includes 
proposal to auction off 
portions of spectrum not used 
for mass media. 


102/CANADIAN 
VOICES 


Canadian Parliament is 
expected to enact legislation 
that will change that country's 
broadcast regulations and 
strengthen Canadian content 
and texture of programing aired 
there. 


113/CABLE 
SYSTEM SALES 


Cooke Cablevision and New 
York Times Cable are matched 
with buyers in deals for $1.47 
billion and $420 million, 
respectively. 


135/SONY 
POINT MAN 


Sony's Richard Wheeler has 
risen through company’s ranks 
to assume post of Sony 
Communications Products Co 
president, where he is 

leading that company's push for 
digital future. 


-— 

DEPARTMENTS 

Advertisers Index ................. 134 
Визїпе$5................................ 109 
Cablecastings ......................... 99 
Сһапдїпд Напа$ ‚112 
Closed Circuit .. ..10 
Datebook.... ... 26 
Editorials .............................. 138 
Fates & Fortunes .................. 131 


Fifth Estater....... 
For the Весога...................... 
Lr  ——— 
International... 


Journalism .... 

Law & Reguiation.. ... 96 
Masthead........ ... 30 
The Media ...... .106 
Monday Memo * 
On Radio... 
Open Mike .............................. 
Programing 

Riding Gain 

Satellite Footprints ............... 108 
Speclal Report ...... .... 54 
Stock Index .... .105 
Technology ........... .100 
Where Things Stand ................ 14 


Broadcasting (ISSN 0007-2028) is pub- 
lished 52 Mondays a year by Broadcasting 
Publications Inc.. 1705 DeSales Street. N.W 

Washington, D.C. 20036. Second-class post- 
age paid at Washington. D.C.. and additional 
offices. Single issue $2 exCept special issues 
$3.50 (50th Anniversary issue $10). Sub- 
scriptions. U.S. and possessions: one year 
$70. two years $135. three years $190. Ca- 
nadian and other international subscribers 
add $20 per year. U.S. and possessions 
$235 yearly for special delivery. $100 for 
first-class. Subscriber's occupation required. 
Annually Broadcasting O Cablecasting 
Yearbook $115, Across the Dial $6.95. MI- 
Crofilm of Broadcasting s available trom 
University Microtiims, 300 North Zeeb Road. 
Ann Arbor. Mich. 48106 (35mm, full year 
$55). Postmaster. please send address cor- 
rections to Broadcasting, 1705 DeSales St., 
N.W., Washington. D.C. 20036 


Produced By National Advertising Ву 
` A. 


| 


PRODUCTIONS, INC. А King World Company 


oger than ever: 


#1 in every metered market 


Seeing is believing. Oprah's in #1 NewYork МАВС 
the best shape ever, and she’s got #1 Los Angeles КАВС 
the figure to prove it. Her national 
rating is up 8% over last November. #l Chicago | WLS 
And she's #1 in every metered mar- #1 Philadelphia — WPVI 
ket for the November book: #1 San Francisco КСО 

On November 15th, Oprah # В WCVB 
shed her coat to reveal the biggest oson 
hit of the sweep. Her all new, #1 Detroit WXYZ 
slimmed-down, trimmed-down look #1 Washineton WUSA 
delivered a hefty 16.3 national rating. 9 


THE ОРВАН WINFREY #1 Dallas WFAA 
SHOW continues to tip the scale as #1 Houston KHOU 
the #1 talk show. With measure- 
ments like these, the chances of the #1 Atlanta WSB 
competition outperforming Oprah #1 Seattle KIRO 
get slimmer and slimmer. #1 Miami WPLG 

She’s growing so fast, there’s #1 Denver KUSA 


no telling how big she'll get! 
е 5 5 #1 Sacramento KXTV 


iss oa Шы нет по 1/30/88 шелш #1 Нап d WFSB 
| | or 


#1 Minneapolis КТР 


DISTRIBUTED BY 


KINGWURLD. 


Se eee ——H 
BE SE eer к MEI 


/ 
| 
\ 


‘losedac 


Arcuit 


SSS ЕЕ ÀÁÓ 
Heading for Houston 


Hot program format heading into NATPE 
is tabloid show. With King World's Inside 
Edition having just premiered and 
Paramount's Tabloid and Orion's Crime 
Watch Tonight looked upon as solid fall 
launches, along with successful A Current 
Affair from Fox, format is well 
represented in marketplace. Station reps 
warn, however, that saturation of market 
could mean quick death of format. It's 
basically a condition of "eating our 
young," said one station rep on format's 
killing itself off through overexposure. 
Off-network properties will generate 
interest in Houston, with Embassy 
Television's 227 for fall 1990 expected to 
be announced at convention. Other off- 
network product expected to be brought 
to market in near future: Columbia's 
Married... With Children for fall 1991; 
Lorimar's The Hogan Family for fall 1990; 
Viacom's Matlock for fall 1990. Also, 
MCA's Amen has been on market for three 
months for fall 1990. Rep source said 
crowded marketplace for off-network in 
1990 may cause some shows to 
exercise option to launch in 1991 although 
they were scheduled to launch in 1990. 


YI CN PRI, d 
into the vacuum 


With NBC's decision to cut back hour's 
worth of game shows on daytime slate, Fox 
Station group has decided to create its 
own midday two-hour game show block. 
Though there may be some fluctuation 
from station to station, four-program block 
is targeted for noon to 2 p.m., but could 

be pushed up to 11 a.m. in some cases. So 
far, group has cleared just one of four 
programs for block—Palladium 
Entertainment's new first-run version of 
Jackpot. Seven owned Fox stations have 
combined coverage of over 2396 of 
country. 


س پڪ 
New hat in ring‏ 


FCC General Counsel Diane Killory's 

name has been added to list of those under 
consideration by Bush transition team 

for one of two vacancies on FCC. However, 
34-year-old Republican may lack 

political connection to make real run. 
Former legal assistant to FCC Chairman 
Dennis Patrick, she shares his marketplace 
philosophy but has own ideas about 

how it should be woven into FCC policy. 


Courting 


Wold Communications may this month 

become next company to participate in 
consolidation of satellite services, with 

Bonneville Satellite Communications 


topping list of merger candidates. 
Following $35 million acquisition of Hughes 
Television Network by rapidly 

expanding IDB Communications last month 
(BROADCASTING, Jan. 2), several sources 
said Wold—which uplinks much 
syndicated programing and operates 

new international uplink outside Los 
Angeles—is near similar merging of 
assets, possibly with Bonneville, which has 
uplinks at same site. 


аа) 
Protecting his turf 


House Telecommunications 
Subcommittee Chairman Edward Markey 
(D-Mass.) is putting word out that he 
wants Cable Labs to remain in his state. 
Cable Labs, still very much in formative 
Stages, is now based in Boston suburb of 
Cambridge but is contemplating move 

to Boulder, Colo. Sources confirmed last 
week that chairman would like labs to 
stay put, and he's making his feelings 
known to cabie operators who 
underwrite labs. 


[LLL cj] 
Good times гой 


Record revenues were recorded in 1988 
by Ampex Corp., Redwood City, Calif., 
manufacturer of analog and digital 
videotape equipment, digital effects 
Systems and other broadcast and 
production/post-production equipment. 
Company took in $700 million last year, 
surpassing $619 million earned in 1987. 


Е 
Reluctant owners 


Ownership committee of Major League 
Baseball owners is scheduled to meet Jan. 
24 to discuss Gaylord Broadcasting's 
application to become majority owner of 
Texas Rangers. Decision had been 
delayed until broadcast and cable network 
baseball deals were completed. 

Gaylord, which owns approximately one- 
third of team, also owns ктут(ту) Dallas, 
and therein may lie problem. Two years 
ago, owners turned down similar 

Gaylord bid to take majority position, 
principally because KTvT is passive 
superstation. Although superstation growth 
is unlikely in face of economic and 
regulatory constraints—and ESPN's 175 
baseball games will further affect 

existing superstations—entire concept 
remains thorn in side of owners. 


ай 
One man's meat 


Interesting twist appears in sale of 
Centel Cable Television properties: what 
might bring in most money for 8296 
owner Centel Corp. might not be best for 
minority shareholders. If conducted as 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
10 


asset sale—preferable to buyers for tax 
purposes and also likely if systems are 
broken up—Centel Cable TV would pay 
34% federal tax on gains and then make 
distribution to shareholders. Then paths 
diverge: Centel Corp., because of 

greater than 80% ownership, would not be 
taxed on receipt of this liquidation from 

its subsidiary. On other hand, individual 
taxpayers would be taxed again on 
liquidation money, perhaps another 28%, 
making total taxation on their share of 
proceeds 52.5%. Centel Cable is said to be 
considering other forms of disposal, 

such as sale of some assets followed by 
Stock sale. Preliminary expressions of 
interest in properties are due today 
(Monday). 


Options 


Group of cable programers reportedly 
including Viacom, Turner Broadcasting, C- 
SPAN, The Weather Channel, CBN 
Family Channel and Disney Channel has 
ace in hole in seeking next-generation 
satellite capacity. According to group 
negotiator Clay Whitehead, if it cannot 
make acceptable bulk deal with Hughes 
Communications, GE Americom or 
others dealing in transponder lot sales, 
group could strike deal with those 
having orbital slot assignments and buy 
whole satellites instead. 

Whitehead has own ace. He is 
president of National Exchange, one of six 
firms assigned orbital slots last 
November and authorized to launch two 
satellites in 1990's. Slots are less than 
ideal for full U.S. coverage, but group 
members are aware of National 
Exchange option. 

Е | 
Green thumb 


NBC News Division appears to have 
already gained considerable business 
Savvy, to judge by recent dealings. п 
exchange for sharing graphics software, 
developed and financed in-house, news 
division was given warrants for 5% of small 
Boulder, Colo.-based software 

company, Satellite Information Systems 
Technology (SISCOM). It is believed 

that NBC warrants can be exercised 
beginning 1991 without cash, meaning 
that news division would directly benefit 
from already considerable SISCOM 

stock price appreciation. At time 
negotiations began between two 
companies earlier this year SISCOM stock 
(OTC: SATI) was trading at just above 

two dollars, and by last week it had tripled, 
to just over six dollars, providing paper 
gain of over half-million dollars. SISCOM is 
integrating NBC graphics technology 

into its Own newsroom software product, 
NewsPro. 


65 Half-Hours 


wt 


^ мы 


ENTERTAINMENT 


са 


са 


TEVEN SPIELBERG 
WARNER BROS: 


PRESENT 


€ Solid box denotes items that have changed 
Since last issue. 


Despite opposition of NAB, FCC voted Dec. 
12, 1988, to give FM broadcasters greater 
flexibility in choosing antenna sites and plot- 
ling coverage by permitting limited "short 
spacing" of FM stations. NAB believes move 
will lead to "AM-ization" of FM band. 

Comments on FCC proposal for mandatory 
observance of National Radio Systems Com- 
mittee standards for AM radio favored adop- 
tion of NRSC-1 audio standard rather than 
commission's preference, NRSC-2 emission 
standard. Broadcasters asked for immediate 
adoption of NRSC-1 with NRSC-2 adoption to 
follow after further refinement. 

FM broadcasters commenting on proposed 
increases in maximum Class A station power 
from 3 kw to 6 kw were split over two pro- 
posed plans. Most Class A’s support New 
Jersey Class A Broadcasters Association's 
plan for blanket upgrades. Most Class B and 
C stations support NAB plan for upgrade of 
about two-thirds of Class A's, excluding many 
in northeast U.S. 

NAB and other broadcast groups oppose 


Data Data / January 16 
а 
News from Data Express January 16, 1989 


Turner Broadcasting System is now 
publishing a sales newsletter through 
the popular Data Express Newsletter Ser- 
vice.* The TBS addition gives Data Ex- 
press 90 clients in 33 states. We look 
forward to working with Jim Gatto. 


KMGH-TV, Denver says they're happy 
with the service. "I always look forward to 
seeing the faxed proof of the next issue," 
says the station's Debbie Hammond. 


KRQR-FM, San Francisco started their 
third year of Newsletter Service last week. 
Thank you Denise St. Louis, Carl Dickens. 


KISN AM/FM, Salt Lake City GSM Jim 
Vandiver recommended our Newsletter 
Service to Command Performance. Data 
Express now handles company newslet- 
ters for both. Thanks Jim. 


meam papá 
meee چ‎ == =. = к -—— = 


* Data Express is the country's leading news- 
letter ghost-publisher. Our service gives you a 
fully-produced salesnewsletter, published month- 
ly. We handle all design, layout, editing, print- 
ing and mailing; you supply your information 
and a mailing list of your clients and prospects. 
The process takes just six working days. Price: 
40e to $1 per piece, depending on quantity 
(min. 750). Price includes all postage. For de- 
tails call Sharon Kennedy at 904-386-3282. 


zzii 


AM-FM Allocations 
AM Stereo 
Antitrafficking 

By the Numbers 
Cable Regulation 
Children's Television 
Comparative Renewal 
Compulsory License 
Crossownership 
Direct Broadcast Satellites 
High-Definition Television 
Home Satellite 
indecency 
international Satellite 
Land Mobile 

Mergers 

Must Carry 

Network Rules 
Public Broadcasting 
Syndex 

Wireless Cable 


FCC's proposed expansion of service to allow 
for local origination by translators, asking that 
rules establish translators as secondary ser- 
vices to fill in underserved areas of full-power 
stations and not as “low-power ЕМ” stations. 

Western Hemisphere countries on June 2, 
1988, concluded second and final session of 
conference to plan use of 100 khz of spectrum 
added to AM band that had ended at 1605 
khz. FCC is in midst of inquiry to determine 
how to use 10 new channels; it has indicated 
some channels will be reserved for national 
licensees. 


Motorola's C-Quam AM stereo system has be- 
come virtual de facto standard, with adoption 
by 657 stations worldwide. Kahn system holds 
on to favor with fewer than 100 stations. 


Issue essentially boils down to reimposition of 
three-year rule, which required owners to hold 
broadcast properties for that long before sell- 
ing. Quiescent at moment 


а Cable television industry is under fire from 
allegations it is “unregulated monopoly." Cit- 
ies approved new policy week of Dec. 5, 
1988, in Boston calling for overhaul of Cable 
Communications Policy Act this year to 
strengthen their regulatory grip on cable and 
to provide entry for telephone companies to 
offer competitive services. Motion picture in- 
dustry and independent broadcasters have 
also been pushing for stricter regulation of 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
14 


cable until there is more competition in deliv- 
ering cable programing to homes. Top motion 
picture and cable executives are holding talks 
to discuss their relationship and possible reg- 
ulatory changes. House Commerce Commit- 
tee Chairman John Dingell (D-Mich.) has 
warned cable to be on best behavior or Con- 
gress may reevaluate regulatory environment. 


m Proponents of children's TV legislation suf- 
fered blow when President Reagan, issued 
pocket veto of bill on Nov. 5, 1988. Chief 
executive's rejection of bill has made it priority 
for 10151 Congress. Quick НИ! action on re- 
vived version of legislation ís anticipated 
druing first 100 days of session. Television 
networks and National Association of Broad- 
casters let White House know they backed 
legislation last year, but President found mea- 
sure "counterproductive" and at odds with 
broadcasters' First Amendment rights. Mea- 
sure would have put commercial limits on chil- 
dren's programs of 10.5 minutes per hour on 
weekends and 12 minutes on weekdays. It 
also required broadcasters to serve "special 
needs" of children, which FCC would have to 
take into account at renewal. 

Department of Education has released 
study concluding, among other things, that 
"research literature provides little support for 
most of the common beliefs about the influ- 
ence of television. 


National Telecommunications and Information 
Administration, in NTIA Telecom 2000 report 
on future of broadcasting and telecommuni- 
cations, recommended FCC purge license re- 
newal procedures of "references to program 
content" as part of overall elimination of rules 
"governing content." FCC Chairman Dennis 
Patrick has also called for minimizing role of 
programing in FCC deliberations at renewal 
time. But their views are not shared by broad- 
casting industry. In first round of comments in 
current FCC proceeding aimed at reforming 
much-maligned comparative renewal рго- 
cess, broadcasters, led by NAB and INTV, 
argue that past programing performance 
should be basis for renewal. 

FCC proceeding is aiso aimed at discour- 
aging groups from using comparative renewal 
process and policy of allowing groups to peti- 
tion FCC to deny renewal and station transfers 
to "extort" money from broadcasters. To deter 
abuse, FCC has proposed limiting payments 
broadcasters may таке to challengers in set- 
tlements of comparative renewal proceedings 
and to groups in exchange for withdrawal of 
petitions to deny renewals. In addition, it has 
proposed requiring fuller ownership and fi- 
nancial disclosure information from compet- 
ing applicants, clarifying standards broad- 


Announcing 
a unique opportunity for 
the shrewd investor... 


The opportunit 


| =a 
Buena 


= 


Vista 


Television 


(©1985 Buma Vista 


“ 


"Television, Inc. 


f 


Т, shrewd programmer recognizes that in today's increas- í x 
ingly competitive marketplace, dominance and flexibility are key to a & 5 ` 
program's long-term success, Today, THE GOLDEN GIRLS, with its 
unique combination of proven dominance and unrivaled flexibility, stands 
out as the finest syndication investment opportunity since M*A*S*H. ee 

THE GOLDEN GIRLS is one of those rare blockbuster off-net a | : 
sitcoms destined to become a perennial syndication powerhouse. Now in > 
its fourth season, the show's popularity is still increasing - moving up to a 
commanding 22 rating/38 share, and ranking #2 overall. THE GOLDEN DEVE 
GIRLS is “appointment television” at its best. Its 10 point share increase over , р 
lead-in is unmatched in prime time and your key to daypart dominance. 

And we mean any daypart! The show's broad-based appeal— 

#1 in every demo, every year—gives you the flexibility to 
schedule THE GOLDEN GIRLS in any 
time period. That’s the competi- 


Eh STE йу e А 


-— 44 
tive edge that no other first-run ; «ЖҮ 
or off-net show can give you. и ш 

E -p A? 
Not OPRAH, not WHEEL OF Ue È 
< т * 
FORTUNE, not even COSBY. ME 
age н * t = - 
Opportunities like this "nd 
are rare. So don’t wait. Join the аи 
exclusive group of discriminating ioo е 
LOI cA 
programmers who will reap the ү! 
н M 
benefits of carrying the Gold. t p w ^ 
Ц + i 
и Rl fa 
Gut L Li 
Ar 5 w n ва t 5 f 
" . f RF i 4 
4 a ale L t Li 
4 Р + а at 
a fa «| 
js му н 
$ E 
ETI 
a ' + Mat 
net 
У F rium На 


Don't leave your homes without it. 
- 


casters must meet to win “renewal 
expectancies’ and reconsidering criteria 
used in comparative hearings. particularly di- 
versity of ownership. 


в ЕСС voted in October 1988 to recommend 
that Congress abolish 12-year-old compul- 
sory copyright license, at least for distant sig- 
nals, saying move wouid benefit consumers, 
broadcasters and cable programing services 
(BRoAoCAsrING, Oct. 31, 1988). Recommenda- 
tion wil! be expanded to cover local signals if 
FCC Commissioner Patricia Diaz Dennis 
comes through with vote, which she is with- 
holding until "editorial changes" are made. 

What Congress will do is unknown. At very 
least, if it decides to pass law requiring local 
signal carriage, it will probably also preserve 
copyright license for signals. 

Two weeks ago, House Telecommunica- 
tions Subcommittee member John Bryant (D- 
Tex.) reintroduced bill he offered in last Con- 
gress (BROADCASTING, April 4, 1988) to 
condition compulsory license on whether ca- 
ble operator is carrying local broadcast sig- 
nals. Senate Copyright Subcommittee Chair- 
man Dennis DeConcini (D-Ariz.) offered 
similar measure in June, 1988 and according 
to aide, plans to revive measure. 


Telco-cable—FCC tentatively concluded last 
July to recommend that Congress lift cross- 
ownership ban on telephone companies pro- 
viding cable television service in their tele- 
phone Service areas, and proposed loosening 
its rules to allow some telcos to own minority 
interest in or finance cable systems in their 
service areas. FCC Commissioner Patricia 
Diaz Dennis dissented from actions. 

In comments filed with FCC, telco industry, 
along with National League of Cities and six 
major motion picture studios, supported FCC 
initiatives, but cable operators, led by Nation- 
al Cable Television Association, strongly op- 
posed them. 

FCC move follows National Telecommuni- 
cations and Information Administration report 
on cable TV regulation recommending tele- 
phone companies be allowed to serve as 
transporters of others’ programing, although 
not as programers themselves, in telcos’ own 
service areas (BROADCASTING, June 20, 1988). 

At present, barriers to such BOC cross- 
ownership include not only FCC regulations 
and 1984 Cable Act but also modified final 
judgment issued by US. Judge Harold 
Greene in his Supervision of breakup of AT&T. 
МПА has petitioned FCC to preempt Greene's 
reguiation of BOC's, arguing that judge is 


BY THE NUMBERS 


Summary of broadcasting and cable 


BRDADCAST 1 
ON AIR 


SERVICE 
Commercial AM 


м б 
CP's 


Commercial FM 


Educational FM 


FM translators 


Commercial VHF TV 


Commercial UHF TV 


VHF LPTV 


UHF LPTV 


VHF [VHF translators | 


ИНЕ translators 


С А В 1. ЕТ 


Total subscribers 


48,637,000 


Homes passed 


73,900,000 


Total systems 


| Household penetrationt 


8,000 


Pay cable penetration 


* includes ott: air licenses. T Penetration percentages are of TV household universe of 


90 4 million. ' Construction permit. 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
18 


hampering their entry into information ser- 
vices, including cable. 

Duopoly. one-to-a-market—FCC voted Oct 
27, 1988, to relax duopoly rules to allow closer 
spacing of commonly owned AM and FM sta- 
tions, arguing that impact on diversity would 
be negligible and that it would allow some 
broadcasters to reap certain economies of 
scale 

Using same justification, FCC relaxed poli- 
Cy for waivers to one-to-market rules Dec. 12, 
1988, saying it would look favorably on waiver 
requests involving top 25 markets with at least 
30 broadcast "voices 

Broadcast-newspaper—Appropriations bill 
(H.R. 4782), which was signed into law, in- 
cludes provision that prevents FCC from reex- 
amining its broadcast-newspaper crossown- 
ership rules. 

Rupert Murdoch won victory in U.S. Court of 
Appeals in Washington March 29, 1988, when 
court ruled that statute passed by Congress in 
session's final hours violated First and Fifth 
Amendments by prohibiting FCC from extend- 
ing current waivers of rule banning newspa- 
per-television station crossownership. Court 
did not rule on constitutionality of substance 
of provision that bars commission from re- 
pealing or modifying television-newspaper 
crossownership ban. 


= СЕ Americom and HBO (Crimson Satellite 
Associates) have filed petitions to reconsider 
Nov. 8, 1988, FCC decision to deny request to 
modify their medium-power direct-to-home TV 
(DBS) satellite, Satcom K-3, power from 45 
watts to 60 watts. Denial of power boost, 
which has been considered necessary to 
reach mass-marketable three-foot receiving 
dishes, could be death blow to Crimson plans 
to start first Ku-band DBS service in U.S., 
and/or to bring cable programers to Ku-band 
delivery via already built K-3 (scheduled for 
launch in January 1990). 

Hughes Communications, authorized to 
launch two 16-channel DBS birds, each to 
serve the entire nation from one orbital posi- 
tion, said it will later this month join Dominion 
Satellite and Continental Satellite in filing com- 
ments opposing FCC proposal to assign pairs 
of DBS slots—one east, one west, each serv- 
ing only half of U.S.—to create rnost efficient 
use of spectrum. Multiple applicants have re- 
quested one of four eastern slots only (from 
which whole nation can be served), leaving 
four western slots (reaching only western half 
of nation) underused. Comments on proposal 
are due Jan. 17, and replies are due Jan. 31. 

Number of applications to operate high- 
power Ku-band direct-to-home television ser- 
vice satellites has now outstripped available 
orbital assignments in separate DBS orbital 
arc, says FCC, which could assign new round 
of positions early this year. 

"True" high-power Ku-band DBS delivery of 
TV programing directly to homes will become 
reality in U.S. in "1992 time frame," says 
Hughes, whose DBS plan will go to parent, 
General Motors, for approval early this year 
Hughes DBS's 200-watt power—10 times 
higher than current fixed satellite service 


birds—says Hughes. will enable reception of 
video programing by affordable one-foot 
downlinks, thereby expanding current соп- 
sumer home satellite market well beyond cur- 
rent two million. 

Hughes says GE service would only be "in- 
terim" step toward its 200 watt service. 
Hughes and GE agree on need to bring to- 
gether "business system." including program- 
ers and cable operators. 

FCC extension granted late last year gave 
Dominion Video Satellite and Hubbard Broad- 
casting's United States Satellite Broadcast- 
ing—among those granted permits with six- 
year expirations in December 1982—four 
more years—until Dec. 4, 1992. 


а Defense Department will provide up to $30 
million in funding to private organizations re- 
searching and developing new, low-cost 
methods of displaying and processing HOTV 
pictures. Pentagon hopes program will lead to 
mass production of low-cost, high-resolution 
screens for consumer and defense applica- 
tions. Requests to fund projects should be 
submitted by Feb. 13. 

National Telecommunications and Informa- 
tion Administration has asked for comments 
оп whether U.S. government should continue 
to support worldwide adoption of 1,125/60 
HDTV production standard. Inquiry asks 
whether any production format should be sup- 
ported and, if so, what criteria should be used 
to decide which is superior. Comments are 
due March 1, 1989. 

Deadline for “action memos” to Telecom- 
munications Subcommittee has been post- 
poned from Jan. 4, 1989, to Feb. 1. Subcom- 
mittee Chairman £d Markey (D-Mass.) has 
asked Electronic Industries Association, 
American Electronics Association and Semi- 
conductor Industry Association to submit re- 
ports recommending policies that would en- 
courage U.S. activity in HDTV manufacturing. 
FCC's HDTV advisory task force and МПА 
also were asked to prepare reports on sub- 
ject. 

Analysis subgroup of ATS committee's sys- 
tems subcommittee has received submis- 
sions for 15 proposed HOTV or EDTV trans- 
mission Systems. Thirteen of 15 systems were 
studied in-depth by analysis group during 
meeting held Nov. 14-18, 1988, in Washing- 
ton. Report, based on finding of week-long 
meeting, will be submitted to systems sub- 
committee in February. 

On Sept. 1. 1988, FCC tentatively decided 
to eliminate from standardization consider- 
ation transmission systems with continuous 9 
mhz channel, incompatible with NTSC seis. 
Move eliminates possibility of terrestrial stan- 
dardization of NHK's MUSE-E system. Com- 
mission also decided to restrict any possible 
additional spectrum for advanced television 
broadcasting to currently allotted VHF and 
UHF television spectrum. Use of band above 
1 ghz for augmentation channels was ruled 
out. 


a Giving shot in arm to struggling home satel- 


lite industry, 100th Congress passed copy- 
right legislation authorizing transmission of 
broadcast television signals via satellite to 
backyard dish owners. (President Reagan 
signed bill on Nov. 16, 1988.) Under its terms, 
independent television signals can be 
beamed to any of more than two million dish 
owners, but network affiliate signals can only 
be delivered to those in “white areas’—those 
not able to receive network programing off air 
and not choosing to receive it via cable. 

Other legislation designed to help home 
satellite industry did not fare as well. 3.889 
died in Senate after lawmakers voted 43 to 36 
to table measure. but bill’s author, Senator Al 
Gore (D-Tenn.) has vowed to revive measure 
in 101st Congress. 


Implementing stringent indecency law signed 
into law by President Reagan last fall (BRoAD- 
CASTING, Oct. 3, 1988), FCC unanimously 
adopted new policy that prohibits "indecent" 
broadcasts 24 hours per day. But policy and 
underlying law are being challenged in courts 
on First Amendment grounds by coalition of 
broadcasting and public-interest groups, in- 
cluding such diverse groups as National As- 
sociation of Broadcasters and Action for Chil- 
dren's Television 

U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington had 
affirmed FCC's earlier indecency enforcement 
policy based on premise that FCC could not 
ban indecency, but could channel it to times 
of day when few children were in audience. 
But court remanded case to commission to 
justify midnight-to-6 a.m. "safe harbor." In 
light of congressional action, FCC will not go 
ahead wilh ils remand rulemaking. 


а Cable News Network became first non-Intel- 
sat video service provider from U.S. to Latin 
America in December 1988 after deal with 
Pan American Satellite Corp. PanAmSat saw 
its first satellite, PAS 1, go into orbit June 15, 
1988, aboard Arianespace rocket launched 
from Kourou, French Guiana. The satellite is 
intended to provide domestic services in 
South American countries as well as interna- 
lional services. 

Hollywood film studios have sold nearly bil- 
lion dollars in movie packages to British pay 
satellite TV channels in recent weeks. British 
Satellite Broadcasting, UK direct-to-home ser- 
vice to launch thís year, has closed more than 
$600 million in multi-year film deals with Para- 
mount, Universal, Columbia/Tri-Star, MGM/UA 
and Warner. Rival Sky Movies service of Ru- 
pert Murdoch, launching this winter on Euro- 
pean Astra satellite, has tied up with Walt 
Disney, Warner and Murdoch-owned 20th 
Century Fox. 

Luxembourg's Astra satellite, being posi- 
tioned as Europe's new "hot bird" for cable 
and direct broadcasting, launched success- 
fully Dec. 10 and is preparing to become op- 
erational with first programing next month. On 
16-channel Astra so far are Rupert Murdoch's 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
19 


Sky Television package (Disney Channel, 
news, sports, movies, arts and general enter- 
tainment) and MTV. 

Britains Conservative government pro- 
posed massive overhaul of UK broadcasting 
system to be debated in parliament during 
1989. Proposed changes include opening of 
new fifth terrestrial TV channel. auctioning of 
regional commercial TV franchises, relaxed 
takeover and ownership rules, separation of 
fourth channel from existing commercial 
Structure and changes in BBC financing. 

State Department has "agreed in principle" 
10 pursue special trade agreement with Peo- 
ple's Republic of China to allow export of U.S.- 
made commercial satellites into that country 
for launch by China's Long March launch firm, 
saying both sides are "definitely prepared to 
move forward." Hughes Aircraft-built HS 601 
birds for Australian Aussat B services and 
Hughes-built Westar МІ, now in hands of Hong 
Kong-based China-UK consortium, are pro- 
posed exports in question. 

Intelsat board of governors approved 
$394.3 million Intelsat VII series contract with 
Ford Aerospace during Sept. 8-15, 1988, 
meeting in Washington. Contract calls for de- 
livery of five satellites, first two to be launched 
in 1992-93. Each bird will carry C-band and 
Ku-band capacity. 


And in Geneva on Oct. 6, 1988, World Ad- 
ministrative Radio Conference dealing with 
satellites’ use of fixed satellite services com- 
pleted second and concluding session. Con- 
ference, considered reasonable success, 
completed plan for use of expansion bands 
associated with 6/4 ghz and 14/11-12 ghz, 
which assures all countries guaranteed "equi- 
table access" to geostationary orbit. 


Last fall, FCC delayed decision on petition to 
reallocate UHF channels in eight markets to 
land mobile radio until completion of report on 
whether UHF channels in question will be 
needed for broadcasting high-definition sys- 
tems. But report released in June 1988 by 
FCC's advisory committee on advanced TV 
service advised FCC not to act because il is 
too early to know how much spectrum broad- 
casters will need. During special meeting on 
HDTV issues, FCC decided to follow report's 
advice (BROADCASTING, Sept. 5. 1988). 


a Lorimar Telepictures stockholders approved 
company's acquisition by Warner Communi- 
cations Inc. at shareholder meeting Dec. 8, 
1988. Under terms of tax-free stock swap, 
Lorimar shareholders will exchange roughly 
2.7 shares for each common share of Warner. 
Original definitive agreement for merger had 
set ratio of about 2.4 Lorimar shares per 
Warner share, but was revised Oct. 21. New 
agreement also provides for "substantial" in- 
terim financing of Lorimar's operations by 
Warner. Transaction has been delayed by 
Sept. 27 New York state court ruling, upheld 
by appeals court Dec. 8. Court ruled that 
Warner's acquisition of Lorimar's TV stations. 


along with rest of company, would violate 
1984 shareholder agreement by which Chris- 
Craft, group owner, became Warner's largest 
shareholder. On Dec. 29, Lorimar announced 
closing of sale of two of three stations it still 
held: company sold beneficial interest in trust 
holding two Puerto Rico stations to Orlando 
broadcaster Timothy Brumlik for $20 million- 
$30 million. Warner and Lorimar hope to com- 
plete transaction by end of January. Since 
May, Warner has taken over Lorimar's domes- 
tic theatrical distribution operations, along 
with distribution of Lorimar's home video li- 
brary. 

MSO's United Cable (UCT) and United Art- 
ists Communications Inc. (UACI) signed de- 
finitive agreement March 8 to merge into new 
company, United Artists Entertainment Co. 
(UAE). Under terms of agreement amendment 
announced Sept. 19, UACI stockholders 
would exchange each share for one share 
each of class A and class B common stocks— 
class B stock convertible into class A and 
carrying 10 votes per share compared to 
class A stock’s single vote. UCT stockholders 
have option to receive either $35 cash or one 
share apiece of A and B stock in UAE, with 
right to put that stock to Tele-Communications 
Inc. ТС! Ваз expanded UCT ownership to 
41% share аз of July 29. ТС! owns roughly 
two-thirds of UACI and would own a majority 
of newly formed UAE. Setup of class A and 
class B stocks is designed to preserve TCI's 
majority vote in UAE while permitting convert- 
ible-bond financing. In anticipation of merger, 
UCT and UACI have consolidated their exec- 
utive offices. Companies await SEC approva! 


The 1989 


of new securities. Merger is also subject to 
shareholder approval. 


a National Cable Television Association Presi- 
dent James P. Mooney iterated in Jan. 10 
speech association's willingness to work with 
broadcasters in persuading Congress to pass 
"reasonable" must-carry law requiring cable 
systems to carry some local broadcast sig- 
nals. 

МСТА cooperative attitude is not new. After 
federal courts struck down FCC's original 
must-carry rules as violation of First Amend- 
ment, NCTA was party to compromise with 
broadcasters on new set of rules, which FCC 
later adopted. But because courts also found 
revised rules unconstitutional, broadcasters 
now need cable's help in push for must-carry 
law that, it is hoped, will survive legal chal- 
lenge. 

Impact lack of must-carry rules is having is 
growing. NCTA released survey Sept. 13, 
1988, that it said showed cabie operators 
have been responsible in their broadcast car- 
riage decisions. NCTA survey, conducted by 
Price Waterhouse, found that 9896 of qualified 
stations remain on cable systems. МСТА also 
found that 9496 of cable systems had not 
dropped stations or denied stations carriage 
and 9196 had not engaged in channel reposi- 
tioning. FCC released results of must-carry 
survey Sept. 1, 1988, but they did little to end 
debate over whether must-carry rules or law 


Radio-Television 
News Directors 


Association 


Regional Awards 


OPEN TO ALL RADIO 


AND TELEVISION STATIONS 


Deadline: February 1, 1989 


For Information, contact: 


requiring cable systems to carry local broad- 
cast signals is necessary. Of 912 television 
stations that responded, 280, or 31%, report- 
ed 1,533 incidences of being dropped or de- 
nied carriage on cable since federal court 
struck down rules on:constitutional grounds; 
of 4,303 cable systems that responded, 869, 
or 2096, reported 1,820 incidences of drop- 
ping broadcast signals or denying them car- 
riage after court action. 

National Association of Broadcasters' sur- 
vey found that of 259 television stations re- 
sponding, some 50 stations are not being car- 
ried on at least one cable system that would 
have had to carry stations under must-carry 
rules. 


FCC's network rules are being reviewed, and 
several may be modified or eliminated on 
ground that networks now face stiff competi- 
tion. FCC has opened proceedings looking at 
rules prohibiting networks from representing 
affiliates in spot advertising market, barring 
networks from owning cable systems and lim- 
iting network-affiliate contracts to two years. 

Proposal to eliminate network-cable cross- 
ownership ban has proved highly controver- 
sial. In comments, cable industry joined net- 
works in calling for repeal of ban, but network 
affiliates and advertisers argued for its preser- 
vation. 


1988 RTNDA Edward R. Murrow Award winners with Ed 
Bradley, CBS News: (top row, |. to г.) Scott Killgore, KIMN/KYGO, 
Denver; Jim Willi, KPNX-TV, Phoenix; Chris Witting. WBBM Radio, 
Chicago; (middie row. |. to г.) Jerry Dahmen, WSM, Nashville; Tom 
Luljak, WTMJ Radio, Milwaukee: Bradley; Mike Sechrist, WPLG [TV]. 
Miami; (bottom row, |. to г.) Steve Johnson, KXLY-TV, Spokane: Don 
Varyu, KING-TV, Seattle; Jack Cahalan, WCPO-TV, Cincinnati. 


Radio-Television News Directors Assoclation 
1717 К Street, NW —Sulte 615 * Washington, DC 20006 * (202) 659-6510 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
20 


"c дє 
о you 


P" 


ed 


. Wher 


J 


ig ~ 


0 for. 


$. 
© 


1 


> 


^. 
d х 
Сә 


епі, 


entertainm 


A 


-$ 


138A 
m. 
vat 


Y. 
i 


T n 
Ф 


М. 


Family F 


ud 


It's hc 


The |.C.E. Library 
Cool classics including The Adventures 
of Robin Hood, Yancy Derringer and a 
stifling tribute to JFK, in glorious black 
and white. 


Smithsonian Treasures 

The award-winning celebration of 
mankind's greatest achievements. 
One and two-hour formats. 


Test Series 
Five first-run half hours with health and 
science expert Dr. Frank Field. 


An unforgettable story. A 
monumental production. George 
C. Scott is the fiery and maniacal 
Mussolini. Also starring Lee Grant 
and Raul Julia. Available 4th 
quarter '89. 


€) 1989 LBS Communications Inc. 


ت ا kint‏ 


Spectrum If 

Six proven performers in one star- 
studded movie package, including 
Bonanza: The Next Generation, soon to 
be a major new TV series. 


Hope Diamonds 

11 Bob Hope movie gems. 

It Came Upon The Midnight Clear 
Mickey Rooney stars in this delightful 
holiday classic. 


i i-a — 


TVHe РОГ 


а Е of LBS беттешип Inc. 


gor 002 
I! 


Girl opes - DER and - 
Adults. Denver's the perfect PUR 
Afternoon transitional strip. 

Capture America's favorite 
dinosaur for your market. 

Call World Events for the facts. 


SOURCE: A.C. Nielsen МТ! 9/24-11/20/88 


(314) 454-6475 
National Advertising Sales by TELETRIB Licensing by 


Product 


WORLD EVENTS/Calico (А 


| „шене SY 
m Proposed Office of Management and Bud- 
get 1992 budget outlays would freeze CPB 
appropriation at 1991 levels, without extra 
$200-million appropriation for satellite system 
replacement. Late last year, President Rea- 
gan signed 1991 appropriation ої 
$242,060,000 for СРВ, with additional 
$56,810,000 for satellite. 

In Congress, CPB was, last November, au- 
thorized $245 million, $265 million and $285 
million, respectively, for the three years 1991- 
1993, down from Original Congressional pro- 
posals of $304 million, $345 million and $404 
million. Satellite replacement funding of $200 
million over three-year period was retained. 
Bill creates TV program fund specifically for 
independent productions. 

NPR board will appoint working group early 
this year to design and present strategic plan 
for 1990's by next November; 10-memoer 
group will comprise mainly "citizen leaders' 
offering “perspective” from outside NPR 
membership and will focus on new program- 
ing. FY 1989, which began Oct. 1, 1988, is 
first year of “unbundled” programing, under 
which members may now Choose to purchase 
only news or only cultural programing. Board 
will propose FY 1990 budget in February, like- 
ly reflecting 20%-25% member dues in- 


creases to finance current service improve- 
ments and launch of new services. 

PBS plans to suggest in early 1989 specific 
series for same-night prime time carriage next 
tall, hoping to assure uniform prime time 
schedule via at least one station in each major 
market. National Association of Public Televi- 
sion Stations is also coordinating national pro- 
gram funding task force. 


FCC now has before it stack of petitions to 
reconsider, in whole or in part, new syndicat- 
ed exclusivity rules it adopted at May 18, 
1988, meeting. Rules empower broadcasters 
to enforce exclusivity of programs against ca- 
ble systems that import duplicative program- 
ing on distant broadcast signals. Broadcast- 


ers, led Бу National Association of 
Broadcasters and Association of Independent 
Television Stations. still strongly support rules, 
but they asked for refinements that would 
make it easier for broadcasters to enforce 
exclusivity. Cable interests, on other hand, still 
strongly oppose rules. 

United Video, common carrier for supersta- 
tions wGN-Tv Chicago, мріҳ(ту) New York and 
ктут-ту Dallas, and Century Communications 
have already notified U.S. Court of Appeals of 
their intention to challenge rules in court. 


Wireles$ cable is up and running in several 
markets and may be in several more within 
next year. 

Microband Companies Inc., New York, is 
industry leader, with systems in Washington, 
Detroit and New York. Metropolitan Cablevi- 
sion has 25,000 subscribers in Cleveland, 
and claims to be holding its own in head-to- 
head competition with  Viacom-managed 
North Coast Cable, conventional cable sys- 
tem operator. People's Choice TV has target- 
ed Sacramento, Calif. 

Wireless cable's principa! problem remains 
inability to secure right to cable programing at 
what operators feel are equitable rates. Wire- 
less pioneers charge that programers' гесаісі- 
trance is due to pressure from conventional 
operators, the programers' principal custom- 
ers and, in some cases, their owners. Pro- 
gramers say any discrimination against wire- 
less cable is result of concern about financial 
stability of operators and signal security. 

To keep cable programing flowing to wire- 
less, WCA plans to keep heat on cable indus- 
try in Washington with charges of anticompeti- 
tive behavior. WCA has three champions on 
Capitol Hill: Senators Howard Metzenbaum 
(D-Ohio). Albert Gore (D-Tenn.) and Larry 
Pressler (R-S.D.). a 


"ss MED] 


Advertisement 


WITH REED IRVINE AND CLIFF KINCAID 


MONITOR 


HAVANA'S MAN 
IN CBS 


CBS once again demonstrated its will- 
ingness to polish Fidel Castro’s image in a 
60 Minutes segment aired on New Үсаг'з 
Day titled “Cuba: Thirty Years After.” The 
CBS crew didn’t get an interview with 
Castro or even any lesser Cuban govern- 
mentofficial. They had to settle for a radio 
and TV commentator named Alberto Perez. 
Despite the snub, Harry Reasoner oblig- 
ingly transmitted the propaganda Perez 
dished out in near perfect English. 

Mike Wallace opened the segment 
saying that what Reasoner found after 30 
years of Castro'srule was “a changed Cuba, 
some say for the better." On came Perez to 
tell the vast CBS audience, “There’s a 
sense of pride, of dignity, and that’s worth 
much more than any material goods in the 
world.” He explained away the flight of 
more than a million Cubans, saying they 
were people who wanted nice cars, color 
TV, the opportunity tomake lots of money. 
He said they weren’t willing to make the 
sacrifices “necessary to provide a lot of 
free stuff here for people.” 

Reasoner didn’t ask what was wrong 


with people wanting to make a good living 
and enjoy the consumer goods that are 
abundant today in countries that were poorer 
than Cuba 30 years ago. When Perez 
assured him that Cubans today have amuch 
better life than they had before, Reasoner 
said, “And as far as we could see Alberto 
Perez was right.” When Perez assured him 
that there had not been “ал instance of 
brutality, of torture, here,” Reasoner showed 
no sign of ever having heard of Armando 
Valladares, the Cuban poet, whose book, 
Against All Hope, recounts in detail the 
torture he and other victims of Castro suf- 
fered in Cuban prisons. 

Perez, responding to talk of human 
Tights violations in Cuba, trotted out the 
standard answer that the important human 
rights are “the right to cat, the right to work, 
the right to get medical attention, the right 
to education.” Reasoner seemed to agree, 
saying, “That may be true,” while acknowl- 
edging that there were problems of produc- 
tivity and shortages in Cuba. 

That was a fleeting concession to the 
harsh reality of life in Cuba today, where 
the ration is 10 ozs. of meat and 4 ozs. of 
coffee a month. Reasoner gave no infor- 
mation on rationing. Instead, he rhapso- 
dized about Cuban health care and educa- 
tion, ignoring a leaked secret study that 


showed a very high level of dissatisfaction 
with the quality of health care. Nor did he 
note that higher education is denied those 
who differ with the Communist Party. 

In contrast, The New York Times ran 
an editorial saying, "Cuba after 30 years 
remains poor, unfree and dependent. And 
a country whose economy in 1958 was 
among Latin America's most advanced 
has skidded to the middle ranks. No won- 
derthis tropical dictator-for-life fears a real 
popular judgment." 

Why the difference? Кеазопег an- 
swered that when he revealed that 60 Min- 
utes had employed Saul Landau as a paid 
consultant Landau is a Marxist and a 
notorious apologist for Castro and his revo- 
lution. CBS gotexactly what it paid for— 
a big dose of dishonest pro-Castro propa- 
ganda. 


AIMO 


А three-minute radio commentary 
available five days a week as a 

public service. For a sample tape, 

please call Deborah Lambert 
ACCURACY IN MEDIA 

1275 К Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 
(202)371-6710 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
22 


blueintheface. — —— 


` 


эм 


but you cant аго; 


je with the facts. 


WHEEL OF FORTUNE 
and JEOPARDYare 
*1and*2. Again. 


decade, and the most powerful franchises in the 
| history of syndication. They dominate syndication 
t = — as no two shows ever have before. | 
Even today, in the most competitive TV environ- 
ment in history, they overpower every new program- 
ming genre, every new format, every new twist the 
competition takes. 
Market after market, sweep after sweep, WHEEL р: 
and JEOPARDY continue to dominate their 
time periods like no other programming ever has. 
Thats dominance you can count on to build 
entire dayparts. 
The fact is, the franchise of the future is still 
WHEEL and JEOPARDY. The numbers prove it again, 
and again, and again. 


Produced by National Advertising By 
ae г ERY «КІРЕ ES CAMEO] | 
А anit of Cokembia Pictures Entertainment lnc \ — 
DISTRIBUTED BY 


Source: Nielsen Cassandra 
PI— ТЫ Ranking Report November '88. 


Datebooka 


€ indicates new listing 
——4 


This week 


Jan. 13-19—National Association of Broadcast- 
er$ winter board meeting. Scottsdale Princess, 
Scottsdale, Ariz 


Jan. 15—10th annual televised ACE Awards 
(Awards for Cable Excellence), sponsored oy Na- 
tional Academy of Cable Programing. Wiltern 
Theater, Los Angeles 


Jan. 15—Deadline for entries in Anson Jones 
Award honoring Texas media for excellence п 
health communication to the public. sponsored by 
Texas Medical Association. Information: (512) 
477-6704 


Jan. 15—Deadline for entries in national awards 
competition sponsored by Asian American Jour- 
nalists Association, recognizing “excellence 
among Asian American journalists’ and “out- 
Standing coverage of Asian American issues." In- 
formation: (415) 346-2051 


Jan. 15—Deadline for entries in annual Broadcast 
Media Awards for "outstanding radio and televi- 
sion broadcasting on reading education, literacy 
and promotion of the lifetime reading habit," spon- 
sored by International Reading Association. In- 
formation: (302) 731-1600 


Jan. 15—Deadline for entries in Jack R. Howard 
Award for broadcast journalism, sponsored by 
Seripps Howard Foundation. Information: (513) 
977-3035 


Jan. 15-16—Minnesota Broadcasters Association 


Зап. 13-19— National Association of Broadcast- 
ers winter board meeting Scottsdale Princess, 
Scottsdale. Ariz 

Jan. 24-27—NATPE International 26th annual 
convention. George Brown Convention Center, 
Houston 

Jan, 28-Feb. 1—National Religions Broadcasters 
46tn annual convention. Sheraton Washington 
and Omni Shoreham hotels. Washington. Fulure 
meeting. Jan. 27-31. 1990, Sheraton Washington 
and Omni Shoreham, washington. 


Feb. 2-4 .-Radio Advertising Bureau's Managing 
Sales Conference. Loews Anatole, Dailas. 


Feb. 3-4—Society of Motion Picture and Televi- 
sion Engineers 23rd annual television conterence. 
St. Francis notel, San Francisco. 


Feb. 13-18-1115 International Film, Teievision 


and Video Market Loews hotel. Monte Carlo, Mo- 
naco information: (33) 93-30-8701 


Feb. 22-24 —Texas Cable Show, sponsored by 
Texas Cuble TV Association. San Antonio, Tex. 


March 1-4—20th annual Country Radio Seminar, 
sponsored by Country Radio Broadcasters. 
Opryland, Nashville. Information: (615) 327-4488. 


a March 21-23 —Satellite Broadcasting and Corn- 
munications AssociatiowST TI satellite communi- 
cations trade show. Bally's, Las Vegas. Informa- 
поп: (800) 654-9276 or (703) 549-6990. 


April 9-11—Pubiic television annual meeting, 
jointly sponsored by Public Broadcasting Service 
and National Association of Public Television 
Stations. Sheraton Harbor Island Inn East, San 
Diego. Information: (703) 739-5082. 


April 9-11—Cabletelevision Advertising Bureau 
eighth annual conference. Waldorf-Astoria, New 
York. 

April 9-12—Broadcast Financial Management 


winter conference. Sheraton Midway hotel, St 
Paul, Minn. Information: Laura Niemi, (612) 926- 
8123 


Jan. 17—South Dakota Association of Broadcast- 
ers annual legislative day luncheon. Pierre, S.D 


Jan. 17—Southern California Cable Association! 
Southern California Cable TV Marketing Council 
dinner meeting to announce "Cable Up," 1989 
subscriber acquisition campaign. Speaker: Fred 
Vierra, president/COO, United Cable TV Corp.. 
and co-chair, National Cable Month. Pacifica ho- 
tel, Culver City, Calif. Information: (213) 684-7024. 


Jan. 17—Deadline for synopses of technical pa- 
pers for National Cable Television Association 
convention in May in Dallas. Information: (202) 
775-3637 


Jan. 17—-/llinois Broadcasters Association "Ra- 
dio Great Idea Exchange.” Bloomington, || 


Jan. 17-19—44th annual Georgia Radio-TV Insti- 
tute, sponsored by Georgia Association of Broad- 
casters. University of Georgia, Athens, Ga 


Jan. 17-20—'"A Salute to Duke." screening at Mu- 
seum of Broadcasting, New York. information 
(212) 752-7684. 


Jan. 18—New York Television Academy lun- 
cheon. Speaker: Reese Schonfeld, executive pro- 
ducer, People Magazine on TV. Copacabana, 
New York. Information: (212) 765-2450 


Jan. 18— The Presidency, the Press and the First 
Hundred Days,” sponsored by Gannett Center for 
Media Studies. featuring former Presidents Gerald 
Ford and Jimmy Carter. Columbia University, New 


Major:Meetings 


Association 29th annual meeting. Loews Anatole, 
Dallas. Future meeting. April 18-20 1990, Hyatt 
Regency. San Francisco 


April 21-26. -25th annual MIP-TV, Marches des 
International Programmes des Television, inter- 
national television program market. Cannes, 
France. 

April 29-May 2—National Association of Broad- 
casters 67th annual Convention. Las Vegas Con- 
vention Center, Las Vegas. Future conventions: 
Atlanta. March 31-April 3, 1990; Las Vegas. April 
13-16, 1991: Las Vegas, April 11-14, 1992, and 
Las Vegas, May 1-4 (tentative), 1993. 


May 11-15---American Women in Radio and 
Television 38th annual convention Waldorf-As- 
loria, New York. Information: (202) 429-5102 


May 17-20—A merican Association оў Advertis- 
ing Agencies 71st annual convention. White Sul- 
phur Springs. W. Va. 


May 17-21—Annual Pubtic Radio Conference, co- 
ordinated by National Public Radio. St. Francis 
hotel, San Francisco. 


May 21-24--National Cable Television Associa- 
tion annual convention Dalias Convention Center, 
Dallas 
dune 10-13-—American Advertising Federation 
annual national conference. J W. Marriott, Wash- 
ington. 


June 17-23— 16th International Television Sympo- 
Sium. Montreux, Switzertand Information: 41-21- 
963-3220. 


June 20-23 —National Association of Broadcast- 
ers summer board meeting. Washington. 


June 21-25— Broadcast Promotion and Market- 
ing Executives Broadcast Designers Association 
33rd аппуа! seminar Renaissance Center, De- 
troit. 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
26 


York. Information: (212) 280-8392. 


Jan. 20—Utah Association of Broadcasters annu- 
а! meeting and sales seminar. Salt Lake City 


Jan. 20—Deadline for entries in All Media Van- 
guard Awards, sponsored by Women in Сотти- 
nications, for "positive portrayal of women." Infor- 
mation: (703) 528-4200. 


Jan. 20—Deadline for entries in 11th annual BDA 
international design competition, sponsored by 
Broadcast Designers! Association. Information: 
(415) 543-3030 


Jan. 20-22 Alabama Association of Broadcast- 
ers annual winter meeting. Auburn, Ala 


Jan. 21—Associated Press Television-Radio As- 
sociation of California-Nevada regional seminar. 
Long Beach Ramada Renaissance, Long Beach, 
Calif. Information: (213) 746-1200 


Jan. 21—Texas Associated Press Broadcasters 
Seminar on covering the legislature, Texas bank- 
ing and a Texan in the White House. Holiday Inn- 
North Park Plaza, Dallas. Information: (214) 220- 
2022 


[ e ————À!' | 
Also in January 


Jan. 23—Telecast of Television Academy Hall of 
Fame ceremony, sponsored by Academy of Tele- 
vision Arts and Sciences, honoring 1988 induct- 
ees Jack Benny, George Burns, Gracie Allen 
Chet Huntley, David Brinkley, Red Skelton, David 
Susskind and David Wolper. Fox Broadcasting 
Information: (818) 763-2975. 


Aug. 20-23-—— Cable Television Adniinistration 
and Marketing Society annual conference Marr- 
ott, Chicago. 

Aug. 27-29.--Eastern Cable Show, Sponsored by 


Southern Cable Television Association. Merchan- 
dise Mart Atlanta. 


Sept. 13-16 Radio-Television News Directors 
Association annual convention Kansas Сиу Con- 
vention Center, Kansas City. Mo 


Sept. 13-16-—Radio '89 convention, sponsored by 
National Association of Broadcasters. New Or- 
leans. Future meetings: Sept. 12-15, 1990, Bos- 
ton, and Sept 11-14 (tentative), 1991, San Fran- 
Cisco. 

Oct. 3-5— Atlantic Cable Show Atlantic City Con- 
vention Center, Atlantic City, N.J Information 
(609) 848-1000. 


Oct. 5-8—Society of Broadcast Engineers fourth 
annual national convention. Kansas City, Mo. in- 
formation: John Battison, (614) 888-3364. Future 
convention: Oct. 11-14, 1990, St. Louis. 


Oct. 12-16.--М/РСОМ, international film and pro- 
gram market for TV, video, cable and satellite 
Palais des Festivals, Cannes. France. Information. 
Perard Associates, (212) 967-7600. 


Oct. 21-25—Society of Motion Picture and Televi- 
sion Engineers 13151 technical conference and 
equipment exhibit. Los Angeles Convention Cen- 
ter 


Nov. 13-15— Television Bureau of Advertising 
annua! meeting Century Plaza. Los Angeles. 


Dec. 13-15. Western Cabre Snow, sponsored by 
California Cable Television Association. Ana- 
neim Convention Center, Anaheim, Calif. 


Jan. 3-6, 1990 —. Association of Independent Tele- 
vision Stations annual convention. Century Plaza, 
Los Angeles 


ш 
cz 
& 


ү 
Е 


P %, x 
~ SCHWARZENEGGER 
\ | 4 ¥ Py и 


-— 


- 


New York Los Angeles. Chicago 
1212) 685-6699 (213) 289-7100 — (312) 346.6533. 


1989 Orbis Communications, Jac. All Rights Reserved, 


What's Coming 
Up іп 
Broadcasting! 


Broadcasting's Special Report issues and its coverage of major industry conventions are 
excellent opportunities for advertisers to target the audiences they want most to reach. 
Here's a listing of the special issues, and their publication dates: 


NATPE... Jan. 16, 23, 30 
Station/Cable Trading... Feb. 13 
TV and Radio Reps... Feb. 27 
Baseball... March 6 


Top 50 Ad Agencies... March 20 
Spanish Broadcasting... April 3 


Publication dates are subject to change, depending on the progress of research and the 
pressures of and pre-emptions by other breaking news developments. 


The People Who Can Say “Yes” 
Read Broadcasting 


The News Magazine of the Fifth Estate 


New York Washington, D.C. Hollywood 
(212) 599-2830 (202) 659-2340 (213) 463-3148 


Jan. 23 —"Syndication 101," NATPE Education- 
al Foundation seminar. George Brown Conven- 
tion Center, Houston. Information: (215) 664-4400. 


Jan. 23— Deadline for entries in Ernie Pyle Award 
for human interest reporting, sponsored by 
Scripps Howard Foundation. Information: (513) 
977-3035. 


Jan. 24-25 Seminar on signal leakage and cu- 
mulative leakage index compliance, sponsored by 
National Cable Television Association. Albuquer- 
que Airport Hilton, Albuquerque, N.M. Information: 
(202) 775-3637. 


Jan. 24-27—NATPE International 26th annual 
convention. Keynote address: Michael Eisner, 
chairman-CEO, The Disney Co. George Brown 
Convention Center, Houston. 


Jan. 24-27—"Jazz Casual," screening sponsored 
by Museum of Broadcasting, New York. Informa- 
tion: (212) 752-7684. 


Jan. 25 New York Television Academy lun- 
cheon. Speakers: Jim Ryan, Gordon Elliott and 
Glenn (Hurricane) Schwartz, Good Day New York, 
WNYW-TV New York. Copacabana, New York. 


Jan. 25 —Texas Cable TV Association legislative 
meeting. First State Bank Tower, Austin, Tex. Infor- 
mation: (512) 474-2082. 


Jan. 26—47th annual Alfred |. duPont-Columbia 
University Awards in Broadcast Journalism. Prior 
to ceremony, seminar will be held: "Broadcast 
News in the 1990's" featuring network news presi- 
dents David Burke, CBS; Michael Gartner, NBC, 
and Roone Arledge, ABC. Low Memorial Library, 
Columbia University, New York. Information: (212) 
854-5573. 


Jan. 27—Deadline for entries in 21st annual Rob- 
еп F. Kennedy Journalism Awards for Outstanding 
Coverage of the Problems of the Disadvantaged, 
sponsored by Robert F. Kennedy Memorial. In- 
formation: Linda Semans, (202) 333-1880. 


Jan. 27-28—North American National Broad- 
casters Association annual meeting. Sheraton ho- 
tel, Mexico City. Information: (613) 738-6553. 


Jan. 27-28—Colorado Association of Broadcast- 
ers winter meeting and awards banquet. Aurora, 
Colo. 


Jan. 27-28 —M innesola Association of Cable Tele- 
vision Administrators sixth annual conference. 
Scanticon conference center and hotel, Plymouth, 
Minn. 


Jan. 28-Feb. 1—National Religious Broadcasters 
46th annual convention and exposition. Sheraton 
Washington and Omni Shoreham, Washington. In- 
formation: (201) 428-5400. 


Jan. 30-31—South Carolina Cable TV Associa- 
tion winter meeting. Radisson Columbia hotel, Co- 
lumbia, S.C. Information: (404) 252-2454. 


Jan. 31— Deadline for entries in 14th annual Com- 
mendation Awards, sponsored by American 
Women in Radio amd Television, recognizing 
"genuine and positive depictions о! today's wom- 
en in broadcast programing and advertising.” In- 
formation: (202) 429-5102. 


Jain. 31—Deadline tor entries in National Associa- 
tion of Broadcasters’ "Best of the Best" campaign, 
honoring radio promotions. Information: (202) 429- 
5420. 


Jan. 31—Deadline for applications for Harvard 
University's Nieman Fellowships for Journalists. 
Information: Program officer, Nieman Foundation, 
Walter Lippman House, One Francis Ave., Cam- 
bridge, Mass. 02138. 


Jan. 31—Deadline for entries in awards contest 
sponsored by Investigative Reporters and Edi- 
tors. Information: (314) 882-2042. 


Чап. 31-Feb. 2—South Carolina Broadcasters As- 
sociation 41st annual winter Convention. Colum- 
bia, S.C. 


Чап. 31-Feb. 3—"Swing into Spring with Benny 
Goodman," screening at Museum of Broadcast- 
ing, New York. Information: (212) 752-7684. 


es eee oon 


= 
February 


Feb. 1—Deadline for entries in National Media 
Owl Awards, sponsored by Retirement Research 
Foundation, for “outstanding films, videotapes 
and television programs that address issues relat- 
ed to aging, capturing authentic images of older 
persons and illuminating the challenge and the 
promise of an aging society." Information: Joyce 
Bolinger, Center for New Television. Chicago 
60605; (312) 427-5448. 


Feb. 1—New York Television Academy drop-in 

luncheon. Speaker: Nicholas Davatzes, president, 

chief executive officer, Arts & Entertainment. Co- 

ol New York. Information: (212) 765- 
450. 


Feb. 1—Deadline Юг entries in Radio-Television 
News Directora Association regional awards. In- 
formation: (202) 659-6510. 


в Feb. 1—Television Bureau of Advertising work- 
shop for TV stations, "The Marketing Approach to 
Retail Business Development." Downtown Маггі- 
ott, Chicago. Information: (212) 486-1111. 


Feb. 2-4—Radio Advertising Bureau's ninth an- 
nual Managing Sales Conference. Loews Anatole, 
Dallas. Information: (212) 254-4800. 


Feb. 3-4 Society of Motion Picture and Televi- 
sion Engineers 23rd annual television conference. 
Guest speaker: Julius Barnathan. president, ABC 
Broadcast Operations and Engineering. St. Fran- 
Cis hotel, San Francisco. 


Feb. 5-7—Michigan Association of Broadcasters 
midwinter conference and exhibits with engineer- 
ing seminars. Lansing, Mich. Information: (517) 
484-7444. 


Feb. 6-7—National Association of Broadcasters 
managers roundtable. meeting "designed to give 
small and medium market general managers the 
chance to exchange ideas." Ramada Renais- 
sance, Atlanta. Information: (202) 429-5420. 


в Feb. 6-8—Arbitron Television Advisory Coun- 
cil meeting. Doral hotel, Miami. 


mFeb. 7-8—Television Advertising Workshop, 
sponsored by Association of National Advertis- 
ers. Speakers include: Laurence Tisch, CBS; 
Thomas Murphy, Capcities/ABC; Robert Wright, 
NBC; Peter Jennings, ABC; Kathleen Sullivan, 
CBS; Preston Padden, INTV: Robert Alter, Cable 
Advertising Bureau; Barbara Corday, CBS Enter- 
tainment, and Hugh Downs, ABC. Plaza hotel, 
New York. Information: (202) 785-1525. 


Feb. 7-8—Arizona Cable Television Association 
annual meeting. Sheraton Phoenix. Information: 
(602) 257-9338. 


Feb. 8 New York Television Academy drop-in 
luncheon. Speaker: John Gault, executive VP, 
АТС. and chiet executive officer, Manhattan Cable 
TV. Copacabana, New York. Information: (212) 
765-2450. 


Feb. 8-9—National Association of Broadcasters 
managers roundtable, meeting "designed to give 

small and medium market general managers the 

Chance to exchange ideas." Sheraton Plaza La 

ea hotel, Los Angeles. Information: (202) 429- 
420. 


Feb. 10—Deadline for entries in Corporation for 
Public Broadcasting s Public Television Local Pro- 
gram Awards, "recognizing outstanding local pro- 
graming in public television." Information: (202) 
955-5211. 


Feb. 10-12—Oklahoma Association of Broadcast- 
ers winter meeting. Tulsa Marriott hotel, Tulsa. 
Okla. Information: (405) 528-2475. 


Feb. 11—Presentation of 21st annual Addy 
Awards, sponsored by Advertising Club of Metro- 
politan Washington. Sheraton Washington hotel. 
Washington. Information: (301) 656-2582. 


Feb. 13—Deadline for entries in Livingston 
Awards for Young Journalists (34 years old and 
younger), sponsored by Mollie Parnis Livingston 
Foundation of University of Michigan. Informa- 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
27 


tion: (313) 764-2424. 


Feb. 13—Deadline for entries м E.W. Scripps 
Award for service to the First Amendment, зроп- 
sored by Scripps Howard Foundation. Informa- 
tion: (513) 977-3035. 


a Feb. 13—Roundtable forum on libel reform pro- 
posal of Annenberg Washington Program. Panel- 
ists include libel specialists from law and journal- 
ism schools. Annenberg office, Willard office 
building, Washington. Information: (202) 393- 
7100. 


Feb. 13-14—Georgia Cable Television Associa- 
tion annual convention. Omni International Atlan- 
ta. Information: (404) 252-4371. 


Feb. 13-18—11th International Film, Television 
and Video Market. Loews hotel, Monte Carlo, Mo- 
naco. Information: (33) 93-30-8701. 


Feb. 14-15 Broadcast Credit Association credit 
seminar. Orlando Airport Marriott, Orlando, Fla. 
Information: (312) 827-9330. 


Feb. 14-15—Seminar on Signal leakage and cu- 
mulative leakage index Compliance, sponsored by 
National Cable Television Association. Atlanta 
Airport Hilton, Atlanta. Information: (202) 775- 
3637. 


Feb. 15 —New York Television Academy drop-in 
luncheon. Speaker: Michael Alexander, executive 
vice president, MCA Broadcasting. Copacabana, 
New York. Information: (212) 765-2450. 


Feb. 15—Deadiine Юг entries in 17th annual Clari- 
on Awards "recognizing excellence and outstand- 
ing achievement in 57 areas of journalism and 
communications," sponsored by Women in Com- 
munications. Information: (703) 528-4200. 


Feb. 16—Federal Communications Bar Associa- 
tion monthly luncheon. Speaker; Robert Allen, 
chairman, AT&T. Marriott hotel, Washington. 


u Feb. 16—National Academy of Television Arts 
&nd Sciences presentation of Trustees Award to 
Peggy Charren, founder and president of Action 
for Children's Television. Marriott Marquis hotel, 
New York. Information: (212) 586-8424. 


Feb. 16-19—American Women in Radio and 
Television national annual Commendation Awards 
judging. Embassy Suites hotel, Washington. Infor- 
mation: (202) 429-5102. 


Feb. 20 Deadline for entries in Charles E. 
Scripps Award recognizing "outstanding efforts in 
the battle against illiteracy,” sponsored by Scripps 
Howard Foundation. Information: (513) 977-3035. 


Feb. 22—National Press Foundation awards din- 
ner, featuring presentation of Sol Taishoff Award 
for excellence in broadcast journalism to Brian 
Lamb. chairman and chief executive officer, C- 
SPAN. Sheraton Washington hotel. Washington. 


Feb. 22—Illinois Broadcasters Association col- 
lege seminar. Normal, Ill. 


Feb. 22-24—Texas Cable Show, sponsored by 
Texas Cable TV Association. San Antonio, Tex. 
Information: (512) 474-2082. 


Feb. 23—"The Future of Network News and the 
Changing Relationship Between Network and Lo- 
cal News," meeting of Society of Professional 
Journalists. Panelists: Barbara Matuso, author, 
The Evening Stars; "The Making of the Network 
News Anchor"; George Watson, Washington bu- 
teau chief, ABC News; Bob Richbloom, news di- 
rector, WJLA-TV Washington, and Bret Marcus, 
news director, WRC-TV Washington. NBC, 4001 
Massachusetts Avenue, Washington. 


Feb. 27-28—Illinois Broadcasters Association 
congressional visit. Washington. 


E—— 
March 


March 1—Deadline for receipt of applications Юг 
Harvard Journalism Fellowship for Advanced 
Studies in Public Health. Information: Margaret 
Gerteis, deputy director, Center for Health Com- 
munication, Harvard School of Public Health, 677 


DAYTIME NATIONAL FORECAST: 
CLEAR IN 36 MARKETS 
AND MORE CLEARANCE PREDICTED. 


Already, 36 stations have seen that the warm and 
funny climate of the new Joan Rivers Show will make 
their daytime. And a great number of other commit- 
ments are in the wind. 


4 Because, when it comes to capturing audiences 
(especially women 18-49). Rivers delivers. 
an So...can we talk? 


усо WCBS NewYork KSAT San Antonio 
KCBS Los Angeles WVTM Birmingham 
WGN Chicago WPRI Providence 
KYW Philadelphia WGAL Lancaster 
KRON San Francisco WCHS Charleston, WV 
WDIV Detroit WPEC West Palm Beach 
WJLA Washington WNYT Albany 
KDFW Dallas KSLA Shreveport 
ММА Atlanta WLUK Green Bay 
KSTP Minneapolis WHEC Rochester 
KIRO Seattle KTBC Austin 
WCIX Miami WGME Portland 
St. Louis KVOA Tucson 
Denver КТМУ Las Vegas 
Phoenix WDAY Fargo 
Hartford WPTA Ft. Wayne 
Portland, OR WDIO Duluth 
Kansas City, MO WICU Erie 


TRIBUNE 
ENTERTAINMENT 


Company 


Station Sales 


Advertiser Sales 


TELETRIB 


Huntington Avenue, Boston 02115. 


March 1-2— What's Ahead for the 1990's?" pub- 
lic affairs seminar sponsored by Women in Com- 
munications. Key Bridge Marriott, Arlington, Va. 
Information: (703) 528-4200. 


March 1-3—West Virginia Broadcasters Associa- 
tion annual "Call on Congress." Washington. In- 
formation: (304) 344-3798. 


March 1-4—20th annual Country Radio Seminar, 
sponsored by Country Radio Broadcasters. Opry- 
land hotel, Nashville. information: (615) 327-4488. 


March 2—/nternational Radio and Television So- 
ciety annual presentation of Gold Medal Award, 
this year to five recipients, in honor of 50th anni- 
versary of IRTS: For news, Walter Cronkite: radio, 
Paul Harvey; TV, Bob Hope; advertising, Edward 
Ney, and cable, Ted Turner. Waldorf-Astoria, New 
York. Information: (212) 867-6650. 


а March 3-Deadiine for entries in International 
Gold Medallion competition, sponsored by Broad- 
cast Promotion & Marketing Executives. Intorma- 
tion: Jay Curtis, (213) 465-3777. 

March 3-4— Eighth convention of Northern Cali- 
fornia chapter of Radio Television News Directors 
Association. Concord Hilton, Concord, Calif. Infor- 
mation: (415) 451-8760. 

March 5-6—Cable Television Public Affairs Asso- 
ciation Cable Forum '88. Vista International hotel. 
Washington. Information: (202) 639-8844. 


March 7-10 —A»dio Engineering Society conven- 
tion. Congress Centrum, Hamburg. West Germa- 
ny. Information: (030) 831-28-10. 

March 8-9—0Ohio Association of Broadcasters 
congressional salute. Sheraton Grande, Washing- 
ton. 

March 12-14—Wes! Virginia Broadcasters Asso- 
ciation Spring meeting. Ramada Inn, Beckley, W. 
Va. Information: (304) 344-3798. 

March 12-16—Sixth world conference of broad- 
casting unions, organized and hosted by North 


American National Broadcasters Association. 
Willard hotel, Washington. Information: (613) 738- 
6553. 


March 13-14—National Association of Broad- 
casters group head fly-in. “where heads of radio 
Station groups will meet to discuss commen is- 
sues and concerns of the broadcast industry.” 
DFW Hyatt Regency hotel, Dallas. Information: 


Erratas 


Statement in Jan. 9 "In Brief" about 
EEO petitions in Florida that read 
"The petition asks the FCC to conduct 
bilingual investigations..." was inaccu- 
rate. Petition refers to Bilingual-Bicul- 
tural Coalition on the Mass Media vs. 
FCC court case, and asks FCC to 
conduct similar investigations to de- 
termine if there was "substantial sta- 
tistical disparity... with a languishing 
affirmative action plan.” Bilingual 
case raised question of whether sta- 


tion's poor EEO performance was owed 
to intentional discrimination. 


B 


Ratings for Discovery Channel were 
omitted from cable ratings chart in 
(“In Brief," Jan. 9). Service scored 0.7 
in prime time in fourth-quarter 1988, 
same as in 1987, although homes 
reached increased from 178,000 to 
253,000. For its full 18-hour schedule, 
service had 0.4 in fourth-quarter 1988, 
identical to fourth-quarter 1987, with 
homes count increasing from 108,000 
to 145,000. 


(202) 429-5420. 


а March 14—Ohio Cable Television Association 
annual meeting and legislative reception. Hyatt on 
Capitol Square, Columbus, Ohio. Information: 
(614) 461-4014. 


March 16—45th annual dinner of Radio & Televi- 
sion Correspondents Association. Grand Hyatt ho- 
tel, Washington. Information: (202) 828-7016. 


March 21—American Advertising Federation 
spring government affairs conference. Willard ho- 
tel, Washington. Information: (202) 898-0089. 


а March 21-23—Saiellite Broadcasting and Com- 
munications Association/STTI satellite communi- 
cations trade show. Bally's, Las Vegas. Informa- 
tion: (800) 654-9276 ог (703) 549-6990. 


March 22—Radio station acquisition seminar, 
sponsored by National Association of Broadcast- 
ers. New York Hilton and Towers at Rockefeller 
Center, New York. Information: (202) 429-5420. 


March 22—8Broadcast Pioneers Mike Award din- 
ner. Plaza hotel, New York. Information: (212) 586- 
2000. 


March 23—National Association of Black Owned 
Broadcasters fifth annual Communications Awards 
dinner. Sheraton Washington hotel. Washington. 
Information: Ava Sanders, (202) 463-8970. 


March 24-25 11th annual Black College Radio 
convention, sponsored by Collegiate Broadcast- 
ing Group. Paschal's hotel, Atlanta. Information: 
(404) 523-6136. 


а March 29—New Jersey Broadcasters Associa- 
tion annual managers conference. Rutgers Uni- 
versity Continuing Education Center, New Bruns- 
wick, N.J. Information: (201) 247-3337. 


March 29-30—/l!linois Broadcasters Association 
Spring convention. Ramada, Springfield, Va. 


March 30 Federal Communications Bar Associ- 
ation monthly luncheon, featuring international 
telecommunications panel, including Seth Blu- 
menield, president, MCI International. Marriott, 
Washington. 


March 31-April 1—California-Nevada AP Televi- 
sion and Radio Association convention. Monterey 
Sheraton, Monterey, Calif. Information: (213) 746- 
1200. 


= 
April 
April 3-5—Central Educational Network annual 


conference. Radisson hotel, Toledo, Ohio. Infor- 
mation: S.J. Peters, (312) 390-8700. 


April 4—Сансиз for Producers, Writers and Di- 
rectors general membership meeting. featuring 
members of New York Business Roundtable. Los 
Angeles. Information: (213) 652-0222. 


April 5-8—Asian American Journalists Associa- 
tion national convention. San Francisco. Informa- 
tion: (415) 346-2051. 


April 6—53rd annual presentation of Ohio State 
Awards banquet/ceremony. National Press Club, 
Washington. Information: (614) 292-0185. 


April 9-11—Public television annual meeting, 
jointly sponsored by Public Broadcasting Service 
and National Association of Publie Television 
Stations. Sheraton Harbor Island East, San Diego. 
Information: (703) 739-5082. 


April 9-12—Broadcast Financial Management! 
Broadcast Credit Association 29th annual confer- 
ence. Loews Anatole, Dallas. Information: (312) 
296-0200. 


April 10-12—Cabletelevision Advertising Bureau 
eighth annual conference. Waldorf-Astoria, New 
York. Information: (212) 751-7770. 


April 12-14 —Electromagnetic Energy Policy Al- 
liance annual meeting and symposium. Radisson 
Mark Plaza hotel, Alexandria, Va. Information: 
Richard Ekfelt, (202) 452-1070. 


April 19— Federal Communications Bar Associa- 
tion monthly luncheon. Robert Johnson, presi- 
dent-publisher, Newsday. Marriott hotel, Washing- 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
30 


The Fifth Estate 


Broadcasting: 


mcorporalting 


TELEVISION 


Founder and Editor 
Sol Taishotf (1904-1982) 


1705 DeSales Sireet, N.W.. Washington, D.C. 20036 
Phone: 202-659-2. 


Editorial department lax: 202-429-0651 
Administrative department fax: 202-331-1732 


п 
Lawrence B. Taishotf, publisher. 


Editorial 
Donald V. West, managing editor. 
Mark K. Miller, Harry Jessell, 
assistant managing editors. 
Leonard Zeldenberg, chiel corres, 
Kira Greene, senior news editor. 
Matt Stump. Kim McAvoy, John S. Eggerton, 
associale editors. 
Susan Dillon, Adam Glenn (intemational), 


assistant aditors. 
Randall M. тока technolog ооу), Peter D. Lambert, 
, staff writers. 
Kristine. n Hoyt, ' editorial assistant. 
Anthony T. Sanders, systems manager. 
Bowle, Ed Kaitz, production. 
Broadcasting о Cablecasting 
Yearbook 
David Seyler, manager. 
Joseph А. Esser, associate editor. 
Deborah Segal, Tracy Turner, Paul Muller, 
Francesca Tedesco, editoria! assistants. 
Book Division 
David Dietz, manager. 


re d 


Robert "Mibi Teste С sales manager. 
ену, sales service manager. 
Debra DeZarn, classified advertising manager. 
New York 
David Berlyn, senior sales Mes d 
Charies Mohr, Peces 


нази 
Tim Thometz, salas manager. 
Schiff & Associates (Western equipment 


and engineering): 213-393-9285 


Circulation 
Kwentin К. Keenan, circulation 
Patricia Waidron, data entry manager — 
Keith Brody, subscrip. tion service manager. 
Joseph Kolthofi, X Vardell McPhatter 


Production 


Harry Stevens, production manager. 
Rick Higgs, production assistant. 


Administration 
David М. Whitcombe, vice pce d 
Philippe E. Boucher, controller. 
Tracy eny. assistant controller. 

Albert Anderson, office manager. 
Nancy Miller, personne! administrator. 
Shaun Gehan 
Shellene Scott, receptionist. 


Corporate Relations 
Patricia A. Vance, director. 


Bureaus 
New York: 630 Third Avenue, 10017 
Phone: 212-599-2830 
Fax: 212-599-2837 
Geoff Folsle, chief correspondent. 
Rich Brown, George Mannes, staff writers. 
June Butler, advertising assistant. 
Cecella Tyson 


Hollywood: 1680 North Vine Street, 90028 
Phone: 213-463-3148 
Fax: 213-463-3159 
Tim Thometz, Westem sales manager. 
Sandra Klausner, editorial-advertising assistant. 
Stephen McClellan, chief correspondent. 
Steve Coe, slaff wriler. 

International Advertising Representatives 
Europe and United Kingdom: Lucassen Intemational, 
John J. Lucassen, Kamerlingh Onneslann 67, 1171 AC 

Badhoe Amsterdam, Netherlands. Phone: 
31(2968)9 6226. Telefax: 31 (2968)9 3617. 8 Japan 
Masayuki Harihara, Yukari Media inc., 9-4-302, Miyakoji- 
makitador. 2 chome. Mi kojima, Osaka, 534 Japan. 
Phone: (06) 925- Telex’ 02423928. 
п 


Broadcasting Publications Inc. 

A Times Mirror Business Publication 
Lawrence n Taishoft, president. 
Donald ү, West, vice president. 

David N. Whitcombe, vice president. 
Founded 1931. Broadcasting-Telecasting* introduced 
in 1946. Television* acquired іп 1961. Cablecasting* 

introduced in 1972 D " Reg U.S. Patent Office. D 
Copyright 1989 by Broadcasting Publications Inc. 


“You aint heard nothin yet, folks 
=AL JOLSON 


А producer shouldnt get ulcers, he should give them? A 
—SAM GOLDWYN 


"Give me the luxuries of life and I will gladly do 
without the necessities. 
—FRANK LLOYD WRIGHT 


"Goodnight Mrs. Galabash, wherever you аге” 
JIMMY DURANTE | | 


"Imitation is the sincerest form of television? 
—FRED ALLEN 


"Tomorrow is another day". 
+ SCARLET О 'НАКА 


"Virtue has never been as respectable as money" 
—MARK TWAIN 


“Dont look back, something might bé ganingon you" E SEI 
~SATCHELL PAIGE | | 


“Rosebud.” . MES 
-CHARLES FOSTER "CITIZEN" КАМЕ. ^^ 


4 
g 
[s 
& 
Ф 
= 
© 
g 
А 
& 
& 
Е 
З 
o 


FAMOUS... THE 
Merrill Heatter is kicking up a brand 
new game show hit. After creating 
THE HOLLYWOOD SQUARES and 
picking up four Emmy Awards, he's 
teamed up with Turner Program 
Services to give you exactly what 
everyone wants: 

THE LAST WORD! 

Hosted by Wink Martindale, 
THE LAST WORD is a high-energy, 
- high-tech game where celebrities, 
contestants and best of all, the home 
- audience gets in on the excitement. 
THE LAST WORD js à new 
half-hour game with a new twist, 
destined to capture high ratings in 
any daypart. 

Dont wait until the last minute to 
have THE LAST WORD in your market. 


Its fast, fun and available from 
Turner Program Services. 


-TURNER 
ЖАМ SERVICES 


; ‚ Offices.in 
Atlanta, New York, Los Angeles and ‘Chicago. 


See us at NATPE Booth 1649. 


ton. 


April 19-23—National Broadcasting Society, Al- 
pha Epsilon Rho, 47th national convention. Rivi- 
era hotel, Las Vegas. Information: David Guerra, 
(501) 569-3254. 


April 21-22—Kentucky Cable Television Associa- 
tion general membership meeting. Drawbridge 
Inn, Covington, Ky. Information: Randa Wright, 
(502) 864-5352. 


April 21-26— 2511 annual MIP-TV, Marches des 
International Programes des Television, interna- 
tional television program market. Palais des Festi- 
vals, Cannes, France. 


April 27-29-—Broadcast Education Association's 
34th annual convention. Las Vegas Convention 
Center, Las Vegas. Information: (202) 429-5355. 


April 28-29---Texas Associated Press Broadcast- 
ers annual convention and awards banquet. Marri- 
ott, Austin, Tex. Information: Diana Jensen, (214) 
220-2022. 


April 29-May 2—National Association of Broad- 
casters 67th annual convention. Las Vegas Con- 
vention Center, Las Vegas. Information: (202) 429- 
5300. 


| oe | 
May 


Мау 2—Broadcas( Pioneers annual breakfast, 
during National Association of Broadcasters con- 
vention (see listing above). Las Vegas Hilton. 
(212) 586-2000. 


Мау 11—Presentation of National Media Owl 
Awards by Retirement Research Foundation tor 
“outstanding film, videotapes and television pro- 
grams that address issues related to aging, cap- 
turing authentic images of older persons and illy- 
minating the challenge and promise of an aging 
society.” Chicago. Information: Joyce Bolinger, 
Center for New Television, 912 S. Wabash. Chica- 
go 60605; (312) 427-5446. 


May 11-15—American Women in Radio and Tele- 
vision 38th annual convention. Waldorf-Astoria, 
New York. Information: (202) 429-5102. 


May 15—Annual presentation of Commendation 
Awards, sponsored by American Women in Ra- 
dio and Teievision. Waldort-Astoria, New York. 
Information: (202) 429-5102. 


п May 17—New Jersey Broadcasters Association 
annual engineering seminar. Woodlawn, Douglass 
College, New Brunswick, N.J. Information: (201) 
247-3337. 


May 17-18—Ohio Association of Broadcasters 
РР convention. New Market Hilton, Canton, 
hio. 


Мау 17-20—American Association of Advertising 
Agencies 7151 annual meeting. Greenbrier. White 
Sulphur Springs, W. Va. 


May 17-21—Annual Public Radio Conference, co- 
ordinated by National Public Radio. St. Francis 
hotel, San Francisco. 


Completed: 


Мау 21-27—/nput '89, international public televi- 
sion screening conference, "annual forum for the 
exchange of program ideas among producers, 
programers and others interested in improving the 
quality с! public television around the world." 
Stockholm, Sweden. Information: (B03) 737-3434. 


May 22—George Foster Peabody Awards lun- 
cheon, sponsored by Broadcast Pioneers. Plaza 
hotel, New York. Information: (212) 586-2000. 


May 24—Federal Communications Bar Associa- 
tion monthly luncheon. Speaker: Robert Kahn, 
president, Corporation for National Research Ini- 
liatives. Washington Marriott. 


May 31— Deadline for entries in National Associa- 
tion of Broadcasters Crystal Radio Awards Юг ex- 
cellence in local achievement, honoring stations 
that represent "best ideals of community involve- 
ment and service," open to ail U.S. radio stations, 
regardless of membership in NAB. Information: 


Or 


Don’t be hasty 


EDITOR: The Jan. 2 ‘Closed Circuit’? col- 
umn reported that the [FCC] Mass Media 
bureau was ''cooking up ideas for stream- 
lining procedures in awarding permits for 
new broadcast stations,” and suggested that 
this streamlining would entail quantifica- 
tion of the comparative criteria and the use 
of a lottery either to select winning appli- 
cants or to break ties between applicants. 

The plans under consideration apparently 
do not address the most serious problem 
which the comparative process now faces, 
the weeding out of sham applicants and 
frequency speculators. As broadcast sta- 
tions have become increasingly valuable 
and frequencies for new stations increasing- 
ly scarce, the techniques for maximizing 
the comparative credit which an applicant 
can garner have become considerably more 
sophisticated. At best, these techniques are 
artful ways of reconciling private business 
considerations with the commisson's public 
interest objectives. At worst, they are sham 
proposals that bear no resemblance to the 
applicant's actual plans. The only means 
that now exist for uncloaking the sham con- 
cealed in a paper proposal are procedures 
essential to the hearing process: documenta- 
гу discovery, depositions and live cross- 
examination. Unless some comparable 


over Two Billion dollars in television station sales. 


— Privately negotiated. 


HOWARD E. STARK 


Media Brokers—Consultants 


575 Madison Avenue 


New York, N.Y. 10022 


(212) 355-0405 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
34 


—OOÓ سس‎ 
JET 


(202) 429-5420. 


سے 
June‏ 


June 10-13—American Advertising Federation 
annual national conterence. J.W. Marriott, Wash- 
ington. Information: (202) 898-0089. 


June 15-18—"The Use of Microcomputers in Sta- 
tion Management," NATPE management semi- 
nar. Princess Resort on Mission Bay, San Diego. 
information: (215) 564-4400, 


June 15-18—/nvestigative Reporters and. Editors 
national conference. Philadelphia. Information: 
(314) 882-2042. 


June 17-22— 61h International Television Sympo- 
sium. Montreux, Switzerland. Information, in Mon- 
treux: (41) (21) 963-32-20. 


Mik 


methods are preserved for testing the reli- 
ability and veracity of an application before 
it is granted, the entire selection process 
may be reduced to a meaningless numbers 
game. 

Much is to be lost in substituting Gresh- 
am’s law for the law which traditionally 
governs broadcast hearings. If fundamental 
rghts of discovery and cross examination 
are stripped away, or delayed until after an 
initial grant is made, the selection process 
will be debased. Bad applicants will drive 
out good. Confidence in the commission's 
processes will be diminished. And the pub- 
lic will be deprived of new stations ground- 
ed in the thoroughly tested commitment of 
their principals. Since few sham proposals 
will last much beyond the moment of grant, 
there is little likelihood that any long-term 
benefit will incur to figurehead principals 
whose function is fulfilled by achieving 
some numerical value relevant only to the 
workings of a lottery machine. Thus, even 
if minority or female ownership is given 
significant '*weight'' in a lottery, no lasting 
benefit to women or minorities can be ex- 
pected. 

Any proposal to eviscerate the procedural 
rights now guaranteed by the comparative 
hearing process should be regarded with a 
great deal of skepticism.—/ohn Crigler, at- 
torney, Haley, Bader & Potts, Washington. 


What's it mean? 


EDITOR: Your ‘Тор of the Week” article in 
the Dec. 26, 1988, issue ''Defense Depart- 
ment wants in the HDTV picture," is very 
interesting. The fact that it has an interest in 
HDTV for defense applications could add 
new emphasis and quicken the pace to find 
the best way to offer HDTV to consumers. 
My concern is, do they really want to be 
partners with broadcasters? Will they be 
restricted to the 6 mhz or due to national 
security will they be given the opportunity 
to use other frequencies that we broadcast- 
ers will be restricted from using, and leave 
terrestrial broadcasters out of the HDTV 
picture?—Jerry Danziger, president/gen- 
eral manager, KoB-TV Albuquerque, М.М. 


Hollywood as you have never seen it! Haunted 
studio backlots and celebrity mansions. Strange 
gravesites. Never-before- revealed secrets of 
tinseltown and its celebrities. An extraordinary 
—and true —two-hour special, available in 


" эттер өе Rolain for Halloween 1989! 
Rauni en | Holly 1110009 
| 


ı CHARLES DICKENS: 
| 3 б 

Classic апа сатру horror films hosted | Now т color! 

by cult-colossus and three time Emmy- | Those ghosts of Christmas Past are now in 
winner Fritz the Nite Owl. Each movie is glorious living color. Theoriginal screen 
completely turn-key, pre-produced with | classic based on Dickens’ “A Christmas 
open, close and bumpers. Available for | | Carol,” starring Alastair Sim as Scrooge. 
Fall ‘89! Family entertainment available in stereo 


for the 1989 Christmas season! 


FOUR STAR. 
NITE 
OWL 

Theater’ 


It’s the ultimate fantasy! Jamie Farr 
hosts this weekly half-hour series 
that captures all the glamour, ex- 
citement and fascinating secrets 

of people who have struck it rich, 
through skill —or incredible luck. 
And each week, one lucky viewer 
will win a weekend as a millionaire! 
Available in stereo for Fall '89! 


Turn to 
Four Star and 
let the best 
and brightest 
shine for you 
in '89! 


© 1988 Four Stor International, 


Inc 


or 


Y (818) 842-9016 
NATPE: Booth # 1411 | 


J 


ر 
у‏ 
м‏ 


[опСауй 


lO 


A sales management commentary by Martin Antonelli, president, Antonelli 


Mas at a station or rep firm 
must be approached with a definite 
plan of action; one that involves 
discipline and organization. Without a plan 
we see nothing more than activity without 
action; motion without movement. Sales- 
people have a right to be managed with 
competence and dedication. Anything less 
will lead to breakdown and chaos. 

Unfortunately, the only objective most 
sales managers are ever given 15 reaching a 
certain budget. They are rarely told how to 
get there. Managers need a daily plan that, 
when executed, will result in achievement 
of the objective. 

Sales managers, whether at a station or 
rep firm, should develop a routine that in- 
volves the following specific objectives: 

в Daily session with salespeople. Perhaps 
the single most important responsibility of 
the sales manager involves spending time 
with salespeople. Daily sessions should be 
scheduled at which the following subjects 
are covered; pending business; establishing 
target shares for specific buys; what sales- 
people are saying to clients; how clients are 
responding; whether the appropriate areas 
are being pitched on specific buys; whether 
specials are being emphasized; whether 
packages are being used; what the package 
looks like; what the client requirements are 
(cost per point, target demo, number of 
spots, reach, frequency, traffic building, 
etc,); what type of order it looks like the 
station will get; determining the problems 
that exist and possible solutions. Time 
spent on these areas can be invaluable in 
dertermining strengths and weaknesses of 
the sales staff as well as providing direction 
and leadership for the team. 

8 Competitive information. Programing 
and pricing for all competing stations must 
be ые on a regular basis. Salespeople 
should be encouraged to maintain a steady 
flow of this kind of information so that 
management can make intelligent decisions 
concerning the station's pricing and pro- 
graming strategy. 

E Programing and specials. The sales 
manager must collect and supply accurate 
information regarding programing changes 
and upcoming specials. Salespeople cannot 
sell effectively if they don't have accurate 
and timely information. 

B Promotion. А station's promotion 
plans over the course of the year can play 
an important role in effective selling. High- 
er estimates may be obtained by detailing 
how the station plans to support its pro- 
graming. These plans should be collected 
and fed to the salespeople regularly. 

E Rate trends. A record of competitive 
rates should be kept by the sales manager 
for at least one year. This allows a track 
record to develop for each station and gives 
a clear picture of predictable trends that can 
be used to plan pricing strategy. 


- " " F 2} 
иы * К | КИП 


@Олму by adhering 
to a daily plan 
can a sales 
manager hope to 
control his or her 
destiny and 
achieve the budget 
objective.” 


® Rate card. A sales manager must keep 
an eye on station rate cards to make sure 
they meet the needs of both the station and 
the salespeople. They should be aggressive 
but realistic, and flexible. Constant feed- 
back from the sales staff should be encour- 
aged so that input can be given to upper 
management to make adjustments when 
necessary. 

E Inventory. A sales manager must stay 
on top of inventory. ЇЇ а specific time peri- 
od gets tight, salespeople must be made 
aware of the situation so that they can adapt 
their sales approach accordingly (stay firm 
оп rates, steer clients to other time periods, 
etc). Similarly, open inventory must be 
identified so that salespeople can use these 
areas on packages to hook higher demand 
(higher CPP) spots. 

E Sales meetings. Excessive meetings are 
symptomatic of bad organization. А group 
that meets all the time invariably accom- 
plishes little. Sales meetings must be pur- 
poseful and directed. They should begin 
and end on time. Each person should know 
what will happen in the meeting and what 
part he will play. It should be a lively 
interchange between all members with ev- 
eryone contributing. No one should be there 
just to listen. When the meeting ends every- 
one should feel that something was accom- 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
38 


Media Training Center, New York 


plished. Two sales meetings per week 
should suffice. One meeting may be a gen- 
eral one covering many topics, but one 
should be specific (such as role-playing or 
problem-solving sessions). The best time 
for sales meetings is early in the morning: ii 
is the most productive time of the day. 

E Sales development. Building business 
doesn't happen by magic and it doesn’t 
happen overnight. [t is a slow process but a 
necessary one if television stations are to 
progress. It needs a plan and most plans 
begin with a list of target accounts. The 
sales manager should be the focal point of 
this effort. Each salesperson should develop 
a list of potential new business prospects 
and the sales manager should coordinate a 
weekly plan of action designed to develop 
new business. 

Each salesperson, not just the new peo- 
ple, should be a part of new business devel- 
opment. The plan should involve a mini- 
mum number of presentations and follow- 
up calls each week and call reports 
indicating the status of each account and 
follow-up action. The sales manager should 
be actively involved in these new business 
presentations and should stress the impor- 
tance of this phase of station business. 

Serious thought should be given to regu- 
larly scheduling new business seminars at 
the station. Once each month, arrange a 
seminar to discuss television in general, 
your particular station or your group of 
stations and how they can play an effective 
role in the advertising campaign. Keep 
these sessions small, perhaps five clients at 
a time. In this way, everyone can get to 
know each other better, which can help 
develop a working relationship that will 
turn into new dollars for the station. 

B Calls with salespeople. A sales manag- 
er should go on calls regularly with his or 
her salespeople. This keeps the manager in 
touch with changes and developments in the 
business. It allows the opportunity to get to 
know the buying community as well as 
demonstrating that management is taking an 
active role in establishing a good working 
relationship between buyer and seller. A 
sales manager has gained a significant 
amount of experience and knowledge that 
can be put to good use on these calls and 
can aid salespeople in their learning pro- 
cess. An important reason for going on 
calls with salespeople is to determine the 
effectiveness of the sales staff. It is also 
very important to give feedback to sales- 
people after each call so that improvement 
can be expected, and achieved. Only by 
watching and listening in real life situations 
can a sales manager begin to assess how 
much progress is being made by each sales- 
person. And only by adhering to a daily 
plan can a sales manager hope to control his 
or her destiny and achieve the budget еше, 
tive. 


TV Pro grammer's Worksheet 


Section 1. Late Night Section 2. Prime Access 


Match the program in column ‘А? | Which is the true counter- 
with its description in column ‘B? | programming alternative? 


О Cosby 
= О Who’s The Boss? 
Johnny Carson talk LI Alf 
Ted Koppel talk О The Golden Girls 
HUNTER talk L] News 
Arsenio H talk WV EUN 
Pat Sajak ACTION! HUNTER 
Section 3. Afternoon Section 4. Prime Time 
Which program is an alternative Where is each show available for 
to the standard talk? syndication in 1989? 
P| Oprah Phil 
| | SN 
[ GZ Winfrey e Donahue TER 


[z] SUR Jr ed Sally Jesse Murder She Wrote 


Raphael т 
AL Miami Vice 
Geraldo 
ei Rivera 


Cagney & Lacey 


Ши га 


А Stephen J. Cannell Production from 


NEW YORK (212) 541-6040 : LOS ANGELES (213) 785-0111 
CHICAGO (312) 280-8696 - SOUTHEAST (609) 487-8419 


ALREADYAA HIT AND KIDS 


ij CH 


KNOW IT) .* 


OF RATINGS SHOW IT 


EPBABIES CONSISTENTLY DOMINÊED ITS TIME 
AN INCREDIBLE TRACK RECORD ТО 


time Emmy Award winning progra 
repre: 84% of the U.S. Let Muppet Babie 


D IN 2-11 KIDS 11 MONTHS IN A ROW. 
TO YOUR KIDS’ LINE-UP. 


$ already cleared 86 top stations 
minate kid ratings in your market too. 


— eo 87 trough August, BE 
Season Average 


INTRODUCING DIONNE & FRIENDS, 
STATE-OF-THE-HEART TELEVISION. 


With 11 gold albums gracing her brilliant career, Grammy winner 
Dionne Warwick returns to television with a half-hour weekly show 
sure to bring a smile to America's face and a song to America's heart. 
Scheduled for Fall 1989, “Dionne & Friends" is superstar hitmakers, 


rising new talent and celebrities from all walks of life. In short, it's 
music and talk in perfect harmony. 


ENTERTAIMENT. Distribution 
Company TEL ETRIB 


В ТЕ СЕ У C ABLE У АТ E Lub 


ro 


Vol. 116 No. 3 


adcasting 4 Jan 16 


ТОВ OF THE WEEK: OF THE WEEK 


Off and running: the new seasonette 


Late night talk show newcomers 
‘Hall’ and ‘Sajak’ off to 
better-than-expected start 


Two late night talk shows—Paramount's 
The Arsenio Hall Show and CBS's The Pat 
Sajak Show—made their debuts Jan. 3 and 
Jan. 9, respectively. Early ratings returns 
indicate both programs exceeded expecta- 
tions. 

In its premiere on Monday, Jan. 9, Sajak 
beat The Tonight Show (with guest host Jay 
Leno), with an average 6.7 rating/25 share 
in the 17 overnight markets, compared to a 
6.1/18 for Tonight. As the week pro- 
gressed, however, the curiosity factor help- 
ing Sajak diminished, and after the first 
three nights, Tonight was back on top, with 
an average 5.4/18, compared to Sajak's av- 
erage 5.1/20. 

However, the competition betwcen the 
two programs last week was abnormal. Car- 
son took Tuesday night off and a Best of 
Carson repeat was shown. On Wednesday, 
President Reagan's televised farewell ad- 
dress pushed both programs back a halí- 
hour in most of the country. 

While it is too early to draw any firm 
conclusions, the numbers were encouraging 
to the producers of both new talk programs, 
who said going in they believed there was 
enough room for the two new talk shows to 
thrive along with the existing late night 
shows. 

Speaking to reporters in Los Angeles last 
week, Michael Brockman, CBS Entertain- 
ment vice president for daytime, late night 
and children's programs, said the early re- 
turns seemed to indicate Sajak was deliver- 
ing new viewers to late night, rather than 
drawing them from the competition, includ- 
ing Carson, David Letterman and Night- 
line. Inside Edition 

**"That's inconclusive because it's based Arsenio Hall Show 
on ratings for 17 markets," said Brockman. 
“Ви we're going up and the audiences for 
Tonight and Letterman aren't dissipating.’’ 

Meanwhile, Arsenio Hall continued to 
gather strong ratings last week similar to 
those it commanded in its first week out of 
the gate, Jan. 3-7, when it averaged a 
4.2/14, well above the 3.5 ratings guarantee 
given to advertisers. (CBS sales executives 
have projected an average 3.5-4.0 rating for 
Sajak.) 

For the first three nights of week two 
(Jan. 9-11), Arsenio continued to pace 
well, with an average 4.1/13, behind To- 
night and Sajak, but ahead of Letterman, 
which averaged a 3.7/18 for the same three 


days. In New York last Wednesday, the 
program averaged a 4.8/22, beating Sajak, 
which did a 3/14, as well as the last half 
hour of Tonight and first half hour of Letter- 
man on WNBC-TV, where the average was a 
2.7/13. 

In Los Angeles, Arsenio’s ratings were 
competitive with Sajak, but remained con- 
siderably behind Tonight. In Detroit, how- 
ever, Arsenio turned in consistently strong 
numbers, going as high as an 8/40 last 
Tuesday, and taking first place in its 1-2 
a.m. time period. 

Arsenio also delivered exceptionally 
strong numbers in Atlanta, where it has 
consistently been in first place since its 
debut. It averaged a 7.3/28 its first week on 
the air there. Atlanta and Detroit, however, 
are two of four markets in the top 50 where 
the CBS affiliate is not clearing Sajak. The 
other two markets are San Antonio and 
Cleveland, and in all four cases, CBS has 
cleared the program on an independent.O 


'Inside Edition' makes its bow; 
ratings aren't as good as hoped, 
but observers say it's still 

too early to make predictions 


King World's well publicized and highly 
promoted midseason tabloid strip, Inside 
Edition, premiered last week with ratings 
that the company described as ''disappoint- 
ing.” For the first four days that the access 
show aired, it averaged a 6.6/12 in the 17 
metered markets, dropping off almost one 
full rating point and three share points from 
its lead-in program, which averaged а 
7.5115. 

The mixed results came despite the fact 
that King World poured a reported $8 mil- 
lion in promotion and advertising into the 
program's launch, said to be a record for a 
first-run syndication show. Inside Edition 
is King World’s first in-house production, 
and is based in New York, where its chief 
rival, Fox's A Current Affair, is also pro- 
duced. 

The new tabloid progam failed to hold its 
lead-in audience in 10 of the the 17 metered 
markets on average for the first four days of 
last week, including the top four markets. 
The show held its lead-in in five markets 
and showed audience gains in two—San 
Francisco and Denver. 

In the biggest head-to-head matchup last 
week—New York at 7:30 p.m.—/naide 
Edition placed seventh, averaging a 7.0/11, 
while А Current Affair on Fox-owned 
WNYW(TY) finished fifth with an average 
10/17. 

In Los Angeles, Inside Edition finished 
seventh with an average 4.6/7 on KCBS-Tv, 
which replaced USA Today: The Television 
Show with the new show. Last November, 
USA Today also pulled an average 7 share 
in the time period. Last week, in Los Ange- 
les, A Current Affair averaged a 12.2/19 
Monday-Thursday, easily beating Inside 
Edition. 

In Chicago, Inside Edition ranked fifth 
in its access time period on NBC-owned 
WMAQ-TV last week, averaging a 5/9 and 
falling three share points from its lead-in. 
Meanwhile, Current Affair averaged а 
7.4/13 on Fox’s ОНЕ station in the market, 


WFLD-Tv. 

In San Francisco, one of two markets 
where the program increased its lead-in, 
that lead-in was A Current Affair. For the 
first four days of last week, KRON(TV) aver- 
aged a 4/12 with Current Affair, which was 
followed by Inside Edition, which did 
5.6/15, finishing second in the market. 

King World officials were optimistic last 
week, suggesting that while the first week's 
numbers weren't up to expectations, it's 
probably too early to draw conclusions 
about the show or its potential. Analysts 
agreed. ‘‘Four days really isn't enough to 


] TOP OF THE WEEK. Ст 


draw any conclusions," said Richard Kur- 
lander, vice president, programing, Petry 
Television. But, he added, “І think A Cur- 
veni Affair is the better show without a 
doubt. It’s the original and if | have the 
option of getting the original or a copy I'm 
going to get the original.” 

There were a few good news markets. 
Aside from San Fransisco's strong show- 
ing, the program held its lead-in in Detroit, 
where it finished second with an average 
10.2/21. In Denver, the show also grew 
from its lead-in, finishing third, with an 
average 7.8/12. о 


LeMasters: Learning the hard way 


CBS Entertainment chief talks 
about tough job of prime time 
turnaround; unveils programs 
in development 


With one fal] development season behind 
him, CBS Entertainment President Kim Le- 
Masters is admittedly wiser and more expe- 
tienced than he was when he took over the 
position. “I thought I was completely 
ready. [ was absolutely cocksure that [ 


knew everything about network televi- 
sion, '' he said, describing his attitude upon 
assuming the top spot at CBS Entertain- 
ment. The rude awakening that was CBS's 
prime time schedule this fall has taught 
LeMasters several things, he said. The Job 
of turning the network around ''is not а 
one-person job,” he said, referring to the 
input that Barbara Corday, executive VP, 
prime time programs, CBS Entertainment, 
and others have supplied. In addition, he 
said, *"'coming from a development back- 
ground, Гуе learned a lot about schedul- 
ing." 

The problem with prime time goes be- 
yond just scheduling quality series, he said. 
"We promoted very heavily TV 101 on 
Tuesday night and Annie MeGuire and The 
Van Dyke Show, and they didn't open; that 
is a great frustration," he said. ‘‘We’re 
being virtually ignored in the 8 p.m. time 
periods," he said. 

"Slim" was how LeMasters described 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 


the network's chances of moving out of 
third place this season. ‘‘If we have апу 
chance,’’ he said, ‘‘it will depend on what. 
changes we make in March.” LeMasters 
also refused to lay the blame for the net- 
work's woes at the feet of his predecessor 
Bud Grant. ''I knew when I asked for the 
job what the problems were at the net- 
work," he said. ‘Тһе problems now аге 
mine to solve.” On his position at CBS, 
LeMasters said that eventually the rumors 
making the rounds that he is leaving the 
network will be true, but right now he is not 
concerned. **When you're in these jobs you 
live with the heat." 


HOS 


Le Masters 


With many holes still to fill in its prime 
time schedule, CBS has a number of series 
possibilities in various stages of develop- 
ment. The network has three hour-long 
shows and three half-hour shows available 
for placement on the schedule in the spring. 
Dolphin Cove, set to premiere on Jan. 21, is 
the story of a researcher who moves to 
Australia with his two children to study 
dolphins. Hard Time on Planet Earth is the 
Story of an alien who is sentenced to do 
“hard time’’ on Earth. The third hour-long 
is entitled Jesse Hawks, based in part on 
last season's High Mountain Rangers, 
which starred Robert Conrad and his sons. 

Of the half-hours, two of them can be 
considered 8 p.m. shows, said Corday. 
Live-In is the story of a mother who decides 
to go back to work, and hires a beautiful 
18-year-old girl to look after her 16-year- 
old son. The Famous Teddy Z, which, like 
Live-In, was created by Hugh Wilson, cre- 
ator of the critically acclaimed Frank’s 


Place for CBS last season, will be more of a 
traditional situation comedy, with Corday 
likening it in format to another Wilson cre- 
ation, WKRP in Cincinnati. The third half- 
hour is tentatively titled Doctor, Doctor and 
is produced by Norman Steinberg. The se- 
пез stars Matt Frewer, who starred in 
ABC’s Max Headroom. 

For the fall, the network has a 13-episode 
commitment for a series to star Richard 
Chamberlain, who plays a doctor living in 
Hawaii. CBS is also looking at series possi- 
bilities with Diane English, executive pro- 
ducer of Murphy Brown; Linda Blood- 
worth, executive producer of Designing 
Women; a series version of the theatrical 
movie ‘‘Coming to America’’; a series to 
be produced by Norman Lear, and a series 
pilot prepared by Witt-Thomas Produc- 
tions. a 


More hopefuls 
rolled out on 
eve of NATPE 


New syndicated offerings announced 
include game shows, tabloid and entry 
in growing late night field 


With just one week until the start of the 
NATPE International convention, the 
stream of newly announced syndication 
programs for 1989 continues. The shows 
announced last week include more tradi- 
tional game shows, a ''niche'' tabloid pro- 
gram called a Tabloid Rocker and an offbeat 
hybrid called Whats Your Beef?, a joint 
project of Multimedia Entertainment and 
Reeves Entertainment. Another late night 
comedy project was announced, Comedy on 
a Roll, from Playboy’s Alta Loma Produc- 
tions. 

Among the game shows announced for 
next fall is one coming from cable’s USA 
Network called Bumper Stumpers. It is be- 
ing sold for cash by MG/Perin. The show 
will complete its run on USA Network in 
June with 260 espisodes (produced by Ваг- 
ry & Enright and Wink Martindale) avail- 
able in syndication. Perin is also bringing to 
NATPE, in a joint venture with All Ameri- 
can Television, a half-hour weekly barter 
program called The Video Store, which will 
highlight various programs and movies 
available on videocassette. 

Also in the game show category, GGP 
Sports announced last week it was bringing 
back to first-run Sports Challenge, which 
had an 11-year run in syndication that end- 
ed in 1981. NBC’s Dick Enberg will again 
serve as host. The new weekly version will 
be sold for barter (2% minutes national and 
4 minutes local) in a package of !3 original 
and 13 repeat episodes. 

The Multimedia and Reeves Entertain- 
ment project, What's Your Beef?, proposed 
as a half-hour strip, is being produced by 
Woody Fraser. The show, to be hosted by 
Los Angeles radio personality Tom Leykis, 
is described as a combination game show- 
talk show-court show, providing a forum 
for people with all kinds of gripes. What's 


—— ТӨР OF THE WEEK 


Dick Enberg, 'Sports Challenge" 


Your Beef? is being offered on a cash-plus- 
barter basis. 

Alta Loma Productions, the new TV pro- 
duction arm of Playboy Video Entertain- 
ment, announced its second new first-run 
project for fall 1989, entitled, Comedy on a 
Roll, a weekly half-hour targeted for week- 
end late night. Former Laugh In host Dick 
Martin has been signed as host. Fox/Lorber 
will distribute it on a barter basis. Previous- 
ly, Alta Loma announced a new variety/ma- 
gazine strip targeted for late fringe called 


Dick Martin's ‘Comedy of a Roll 


After Hours, to be distributed by Worldvi- 
sion, also for barter. 

Fox/Lorber confirmed last week that the 
weekly children’s program Dr. Fad was 
being renewed for a second year. The com- 
pany is also bringing a new children’s ani- 
mated strip to the market, Wonderful Wiz- 
ard of Oz, which will be packaged with four 
feature length animated ‘‘Oz’’ films. In ad- 
dition, the company is offering a short- 
flight series entitled The Story of Rock p 
Roll. 


ESPN baseball: stealing viewer base 


Although cable network is not likely 
to make big profit on baseball package, 
it hopes to increase its омега! 

viewership т all dayparts, year round 


ESPN does not expect to make a direct 
profit on its four-year Major League Base- 
ball contract, especially in the first years of 
the contract, said ESPN President and CEO 
Roger L. Werner Jr. last week. However, 
as a loss leader for the channel, the package 
is expected to increase year-round viewing 
in all dayparts, he said. 

In his first speech since the press confer- 
ence announcing ESPN’s $400 million, 
700-game cable contract (BROADCASTING, 
Jan. 9), Werner clarified some elements of 
the agreement and spoke at length about the 
need in sports programing to balance the 
consumer's willingness to pay with the ex- 
posure that will keep fans interested in the 
game. 


Werner 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 


“We don't expect to generate profits per 
se On telecasts of the games themselves, 
especially in the first years of the con- 
tract," said Werner in his speech, spon- 
sored by the New York chapter of the Na- 
tional Academy of Television Arts and 
Sciences. ‘‘But our coverage of the games 
will enhance the ability of other programing 
in our total baseball portfolio to generate 
returns. And it has extraordinary value as а 
tool to provide lift and promotion across 
our entire schedule.” 

After the speech, he pointed out that the 
management of Capcities/ABC, which 
owns 80% of the service, would not have 
approved the deal if it did not think the 
overall economics were sound. 

Werner said the baseball deal would 
pressure ESPN to minimize losses associat- 
ed with baseball and maximize profits in 
other portions of the network's year-long 
schedule. As he said the previous week, 
ESPN is not contemplating an increased 
subscriber fee to subsidize costs of the 
baseball package. 

Talking about historical changes in the 
economics and viewing of sports, Werner 
said players’ salaries and teams’ values 
have increased dramatically because of 
growing rights fees, both broadcast and ca- 
ble, on local and national levels. 

As broadcast rights payments appear to 
have peaked in the past few years, Werner 
said, increased demand from cable bidders 
for sports programing has made new contri- 
butions to teams’ revenues. ''Continuing 
upward pressure’” will be exerted on sports 
rights into the 1990's, he said, as competi- 
tion for rights among broadcasters and ca- 


ble programers continues. 

But, in generating revenues from sports 
programing, Werner cautioned against lim- 
iting sports to local pay channels and pay- 
per-view events. ‘‘There’s an equilibrium 
that has to be maintained between exposure 
to а team or athlete and the consumer's 
willingness to pay to see them play,” he 
said. ‘‘That balance is different for every 
sport and depends in part on the traditional 
level of exposure the sport has received.” 
Werner said boxing is an example of a sport 
suited to pay per view because of its high 
ticket prices and the absence of a ''recent 
tradition of live national exposure on a free 
medium for the major bouts.’” [n contrast, 
he talked about the “‘tradition of free expo- 
зиге”” for baseball and football. 

“In the long run,’’ Werner said, ‘‘driv- 
ing sports programing to discretionary lev- 
els of pay service will deprive...teams of 
their ability to promote. It starves a sport of 
its audience." 

When an audience member pointed out 
that ESPN's programing is not free, Werner 
compared basic cable to a newspaper sub- 
scription or telephone. **Not everybody can 
afford a newspaper or a telephone," he 
said. 

He also said ESPN should not be seen as 
a force limited to local cable broadcasts. 
“If you don't have access to cable ser- 
vice," he said, ''your local exposure of 
baseball will not be diminished by this."' 

Although local cable operators are free to 
put ESPN on nonbasic tiers, Werner said 
the increase per-sub fees that operators pay 
makes it not in their best interest to do so. 


ТОР OF THE WEEK С“ 


Republic, UA create new production unit | 


Republic Pictures Corp. and United Artists Communications have formed a joint 
production venture, committing $60 million for the development of television series 
and movies. 

The new unit, Republic Pictures Television, will be run principally oy Republic 
Pictures executives, with an executive board comprising members of both corpora- 
lions overseeing the new division's progress. 

Although United Artists Communications is one of the country's largest MSO's, the 
joint venture will be developing programing for network and syndication with equal 
emphasis. "They [United Artists] are definitely interested in seeing us develop for 
cable, but we're going to be developing for network, cable and first-run," said 
Russell Goldsmith, chairman and chief executive officer of Republic Pictures Corp. 

"The venture," added Goldsmith, "will enable us to expand our television devel- 
opment activities. We're currently in the hour-long business [with Beauty and the 
Beast], and this will enable us to enter more aggressively into half-hours." As a 
precursor of things to come, Goldsmith said Republic is supplying a script for a half- 
hour comedy to CBS in the next 10 days. 

The venture came about after "eight or nine months of discussions between 
myself and Stewart [Blair, president and chief executive officer, United Artists 
Communications]," said Goldsmith. "Their desire to get more involved in the pro- 
duction side of the business matched our interest in expanding our television 


development." 


He said he did not expect ‘‘national trea- 
sures” such as the Super Bowl or the World 
Series to move from broadcast television 
within the next five to seven years. 

Explaining ESPN's ability to switch 
around among games in mid-broadcast, 
Werner said rights fees paid to suppliers of 
games that ESPN picks up in cut-ins would 
be handled through Major League Baseball. 
For a nominal charge, ESPN will be able to 
transmit up to three innings of a game, he 


said. 

Werner said negotiations for baseball's 
international distribution would be starting 
this week and that ESPN was interested in 
securing the rights (sce story, page 111). 

Major League Baseball has retained the 
U.S. Spanish-language cable rights, al- 
though ESPN has exclusive windows, Wer- 
ner said. 

ESPN has no plans to repeat its telecast 
of games, he said. О 


Fairness, spectrum fees top МАВ 


Scottsdale, Ariz., meeting should also 
include discussion of need for new 

must-carry rules, comparative renewal, 
proposed $15.7 million FY '89 budget 


If all goes as planned, this week's National 
Association of Broadcasters joint board of 
directors meeting will be recorded as one of 
the more tranquil and routine in recent asso- 
ciation history. That is what NAB leader- 
ship was predicting last week prior to thc 
four-day (Jan. 16-19) session in Scottsdale, 
Ariz., at the posh Scottsdale Princess re- 
sort. 

In many respects, the board will pick up 
where it left off last June when it delayed 
any decision on whether NAB will continue 
its opposition to the fairness doctrine and, if 
so, whether it will become entangled in a 
major confrontation with Congress to pre- 
vent it from becoming law. The opinions 
are divided but it is believed the majority of 
the directors are anxious not to provoke 
Congress and think NAB should ‘Че it 
pass'' and let the courts decide the issue. 

Joint Board Chairman Wallace Jorgenson 
of Hubbard Broadcasting anticipates а ‘‘full 
blown” discussion on fairness. The idea of 
using the doctrine as a bargaining chip to 
achieve the industry's legislative goals has 
substantial support, especially among the 
TV board members. Moreover, lawmakers 


have repeatedly said until fairness is en- 
acted, there will be no Hill action on broad- 
cast bills. Now communications policy- 
makers are saying that legislation regulating 
advertising on children's television must 
also be adopted before consideration of oth- 
er issues (BROADCASTING, Jan. 2). 

For television, the priorities аге un- 
changed since the board last met. Passage 
of permanent mandatory cable carriage 
rules (must carry) and the development of 
high-definition television are still consid- 
ered crucial to the medium's survival. Ca- 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
46 


board agenda 


ble-broadcaster relations in general will 
also be on the board’s agenda. This time the 
television board will review a special report 
on telephone entry into the video business. 
Radio directors think reform of the compar- 
ative renewal process is imperative and will 
continue to urge NAB to pursue that initia- 
tive before the 101$ Congress. Concerns 
about FCC policy on spectrum allocation 
still exist among many radio broadcasters, 
and the directors аге likely to discuss the 
issue. 

For radio, there were some new develop- 
ments last week, such as the formation of a 
radio caucus among group operators (sec 
page 48), which is bound to liven up hall- 
way conversation. The caucus, its founders 
Say, is intended to serve as a ‘‘гезоигсе”” to 
NAB and is in no way a *'challenge"' to the 
association. ‘‘It is a positive development 
and not contrary to NAB," said Clear 
Channel Communications’ Lowry Mays, 
who chairs NAB’s radio board and partici- 
pated in the formation of the new group. 

Radio executives last week also pledged 
to support—both financially and with air- 
time—a Radio Advertising Bureau public 
awarencss campaign promoting the medium 
(see page 48). 

For the industry in general, the threat of 
spectrum fees or auctions is gaining mo- 
mentum as Congress searches for additional 


Smith-Guichard Corp. 463 
380 North D Street, #460, 

San Bernardino, Calif. 92401-1522 
Spanish Television Services 336 
2044 Cotner Ave., Los Angeles 91342 
Staff: Omar Romay; Hector Llorens. 
Programs: *La Cunada; *Como La Hie- 
dra; *Sin Marido; *Vendedoras de La- 
Fayette; *Ella Contra Mi; *Noche de Es- 
trellas 89; *Las Gatitas y Ratones de 
Jorge Porcel 89; *Libertad Condicion- 
ada. 

Spectrum 719 
75 Rockefeller Plaza, 22d floor, New 
York 10019 

Staff: Joseph Cifarelli; Robert Riordan; 
Valerie DeSanti; Richard Bailey. 
S.P.E.X. Group/Media 416 
8831 Sunset Blud., Penthouse West, 
Los Angeles 90069 

Staff: Dan Greene; W.F. Pouondra; Don- 
na Varmee. Programs: *The Home Res- 
toration & Remodeling Show; *The Luxu- 
ry show; *Fixers Real Estate Ect.; *Home 
Restoring & Remodeling Minutes. 
Sportsman's Showcase with 

Ken Tucker 453 
Highway 313, P.O. Box 872, 
Brewton, Ala. 36427 

Staff: Ken Tucker; Doug Yamnitz; David 
Morris. Program: *Outdoor Hunting Pro- 
grams. 

SPR News Source 1529 
5165 Shady Island Rd., Mound, 
Minn. 55364 


Staff: Jack Hansen; John Lehman; Mi- 
chael Muth; Jack Lau; Al Strada. Pro- 
grams: *We Know What Matters; Ameri- 
ca Hurts: The Drug Epidemic; Someone 
You Know; Two Million Women: Domes- 
їс Violence; Children of Children; 
D.W.I—Deadliest Weapon in America; 
Looks: How They Affect Your Life; A Par- 
ent's Greatest Fear; Touch; All Alone To- 
gether; I'm Not Stupid—Learning Dis- 
abilities; Toward Immortality; Everything 
to Live Рог; The ABC's of AIDS; *Child 
Care; *Who Is Schoo! For?; *Neglect and 
Abuse; *Part Time Work, Part Time 
School; “Subject: Sex; “Life and Death; 
*Leroy; *Doug Hannon's Moon Clock; 
*GVC Salesmakers. 


SSD Film Corp. 253A 


Studio Hamburg Alelier BMBH 1211 
Jenfelder Allee 80, D-29000, 
Hamburg 70, West Germany 


Staff: Wolfgang  Riehl. Programs: 
Thieves In the Night; The Bomb; Sum- 
mer in Lesmona; Wonders of the Earth; 
TV Soccer School; Loriot Special; Beat 
Club; TV Shorts for Children. 


Sunbow Productions 771 
180 Fifth Ave., New York 10011 
Staff: Tom Griffin; Art Heller; Heide 
Kahme; Lisa Klasner; Mary Tricoli; Loret- 
ta Fleming; Ellen Postman; Cynthia Mar- 
kus; Carole Weitzman; Bridie Blessing- 
lon; Loretta Volpe; Dave Wollos; С... 
Kettler. Programs: С.1. Joe; Transform- 
ers; My Little Pony; Jem. 


LUTHERAN HOUR EASTE 


A; Easter for all ages! 

Children's music and 
commentary highlight this 
| 30" celebration, with a hom- 
ily by the new Lutheran 
Hour speaker, Dr. Dale A. 
Meyer. Use coupon or call 


Vi Knickrehm, at 
314/647-4900. 


Please send ше the "Lutheran Hour" 
Easter radio special. "Bring Easter Home" 


Name 
Title 
Station 
Address 


City, State, Zip 


Mail to: The International 


Frequency 


Lutheran Laymen's League 


2185 Hampton Avenue 


St. Louis, Missouri 63139-2983 


| In Canada: РО. Box 481 


Kitchener, Ontario №26 4A2 


Broadcasfing Jan 16 1989 
78 


Survival Anglia Ltd. 939 
113 Park Lane, Brook House, London, 
WiYY 4DX, England 


D.L. Taffner 812 
$1 W. 56th St., New York 10019 

Staff: Don Taffner; John Fitzgerald; Rick 
Levy; Don Taffner Jr.; Joe Ceslik; Mike 
Fahn; Merritt Sticker; Barry Katz. Pro- 
grams: *Mystery Wheel of Adventure; 
*Talkabout; *5-4-3-2 Run; Check It Out; 
Three's Company; Three's a Crowd; The 
Ropers; Too Close for Comfort; *Family 
Animated Classics; Danger Mouse; 
World at War; Hollywood; Crime Inc.; 
Thames Comedy Originals; Benny Hill 
Show; Benny Hill Specials І, Il; The Cra- 
zy World of Benny Hill; After Benny; 
Robin's Nest; Man About the House; 
George & Mildred; Keep It in the Family. 


Telefilm Canada 1312 
144 S. Beverly Dr., Los Angeles 90212 


Staff: Louise Beaudoin; Sam Wendel; 
Michelle Werstuk Chesley; Yvonne Wolf; 
Elizabeth Hamilton; Edmund White; Lou- 
ise St. Louis. Services: Production fi- 
nancing, investment, distributions, mar- 
keting support Canadian government 
film and TV agency. 


Telemedia 651 
2025 Royal Lane, Dallas 75229 

Staff: Harry Nyce; George Denniston; 
Robert Rios. Programs: Classic Fea- 
tures; Hollywood Revue (*two hour and 
three hour versions); *Reflections; Video 
Juke Box; Comedy Greats; Nostalgic 
Moments. 


Telemundo—Channel 2 301 
С.Р.О. Вох 6222, San Juan, Pr. 00936 


Telepool 1211 
Sonnenstrasse 21, 8000 Munchen 2, 
West Germany 

Telerep 539 
875 Third Ave., New York 10022 


Staff: А! Masini; Steve Herson; Larry 
Goldberg: Rich Sheingold; Andy Fein- 
stein; Lisa Brown; Jay Isabella; John 
McMorrow; Mac Lorimer; Mary Jane Kel- 
ley; Jim Monahan; Dave Hills; Lanie 
Richberger; Jim Robinson. Service: 
Rep firm. 
Teletrib 1349 
875 Third Ave., New York 10022 
Staff: Philbin Flanagan; Mary Jane Has- 
tings; Rick Meril; Anne Rodgers; Clark 
Morehouse; Harvey Gamm; Bob Cesa: 
Norman Lesser; Cathy Forbes; Jack 
Steng; Marc Brody; Nancy Gottdenker; 
Dick Brown; Rick Jacobson; John Dona- 
hue; Ken Kold; Kevin McGurk. 

Programs: Series: “Сор Talk: Behind 
the Shield; *Dionne & Friends; *The In- 
vestigators; *Joan Rivers; *Subway Net- 
work; *Rollergames; At the Movies; 
Charles in Charge; Dick Clark's Golden 
Greats; Entertainment — Tonight/This 
Week, Geraldo; Lifestyles of the Rich 
and Famous; Monsters; Runaway with 
the Rich and Famous; Soul Train; Star 
Search; T&T; Tales from the Darkside; 
Triple Threat; Fame, Fortune and Ro- 
mance. 

Specials: *A Child Called Jesus; 
“Achille Lauro; *Lou Rawls Presents; 
*Songwriter's Hall of Fame; *Star Search 


і ^ = | WS, 
: \ ae! on Ne" 


a Җ уф 59%" et 

| | T Tore en 

yos q oh Wont 
and o" 


MARKETING 


Come see us at NATPE. Booth 260 


Dave Bell; Bruce Farber; Don Brown- 
Stein; Marc Maehl; Judy Obernier. 
Service: Rep firm. 


Pollaro Media Advertising & PR 358 
400 W. Main, Denison, Тех. 75020 
Staff: Joe Pollaro; H.L. Voelker; Greg 
Mack; Rick Blackburn. Programs: *The 
New Ripley's Believe It Or Not; *Ripley's 
For Kids; *Hit Video Country; *Inside Mu- 
sic City. 


Press conference area 224 


Primetime Entertainment 1230 
444 Madison Ave., New York 10022 


The Program Exchange 1540 
375 Hudson St., New York 10014 
Staff: Allen Banks; Jack Irving; Chris 
Hallowell; Susan Radden; Beth Feld- 
man; Tim Strosahl; Diane Casse; Holly 
Friend; Esther Pashkin; Barbara Don- 
oghue. Programs: Children: Dennis the 
Menace; The Woody  Woodpecker 
Show; Scooby Doo; The Flintstones; 
Bullwinkle; Rocky and His Friends; Un- 
derdog; Uncle Waldo's Cartoon Show; 
Tennessee Tuxedo and His Tales; Dud- 
ley Do-Right and Friends; Young Sam- 
son; Space Kidettes; Valley of the Dino- 
saurs; King Leonardo; The Beary Family; 
Inch High Private Eye; Wheelie and the 
Chopper Bunch; Goober & the Ghost 
Chasers; Where's Huddles; Buford 
Files/Galloping Ghost; Jana of the Jun- 
gle; Bisketts. Off-network series: Be- 
witched; | Dream of Jeannie; Abbott & 
Costello; The Partridge Family. Sports: 
The Greats of the Game. 


Program Link 512 
708 Third Ave., New York 1001? 


Staff: Nick Peters; Mitchell Saslow. Ser- 
vice: National television program syndi- 
cator's newswire. 


Program Syndication Services 429 
$75 Hudson St., New York 10014-3620 


Staff: Suzanne Crowe; Peggy Green; 
Karen Morgenbesser; Barri Schnapp. 
Program: Morning Stretch. 


ProServe Television 1058 
10935 Estate Lane, #100, Dallas 45238 
Staff: Donald Dell; Bob Briner; Dennis 
Spencer; Herb Swan; John Humphrey; 
Steve Horowitz. Programs: The Year in 
Sports—1988 & 1989; Sports Decade— 
the 80's. International: The Boston Mar- 
athon; The Tour de France; 40 Profes- 
sional Tennis Tournaments; 1989 Inter- 
continental Cup Baseball; 1989 World 
Beach Volleyball Championships; World 
Amateur Boxing Championships; 1989 
World Cycling Championships; Gore- 
Tex National Capital Open Cycling; 
World Cup Volleyball Championships; 
Diamond Awards Festival; James Gal- 
way's Christmas Carol; James Galway 
and the Chieftains; Rubinstein Remem- 
bered, Barry Douglas Special. 


Qintex Entertainment 661 
345 N. Maple Dr., Beverly Hills, 
Calif. 90210 


Ralph C. Ellis Enterprises Ltd. 1312 
1281 Yonge St., #201, Toronto, On. 
МТ 2T8, Canada 


Raycom 1421 
Р.О. Вох 33367, Charlotte, N.C. 
28238-3367 

Staff: Rick Ray; Dee Ray; Ken Haines; 
Ray Warren; Meade Camp; Peter Lenz; 
Peter Rolfe; Jerry Peltetier; Mike Dunlop; 
Julie Johnson; Ellen Bedell; Jim Duncan; 
Greg McCastle; Pat LaPlatney. 


Raymond Horn Syndications — 255A 
38 W. 39d St., #1610, New York 10001 


Staff: Raymond Horn; Gloria Horn; Mi- 
chae! Hannibal; Chuck Wicker; Lou 
Miles; Bernie Schulman. Programs: It's 
Showtime at the Apollo; D.C. Follies; 
America's Black Forum; *Hot! Ной Ной; 
*T.V. Ted. 


Reel Movies International 359 
8285 Douglas Ave., #770, Dallas 75225 


Staff: Tom Moore; Lorri Logan. Pro- 
grams: Space Patrol; Tom Corbett: 
Space Cadet; Tales of Tomorrow; Killer 
B's; Hollywood interview; *Robin Hood; 
*Captain Gallant of the Foreign Legion. 


Republic Pictures Corp. 1139 
12636 Beatrice St., Los Angeles 90066 


Staff: Chuck Larsen; Joe Levinsohn; 
Marlynda Salas; Diana Foster; Lisa 
Woodcock; Linda Lieberman. Pro- 
grams: *Republic Premiere One; *Color 
Image Specials; Hollywood Stars, The 
John Wayne Collection, Hollywood One 
& Two; Get Smart; Bonanza; High Chap- 
arral. international: Beauty & the Beast 


RTVE/Radio Television of Spain 441 
501 Madison Ave., #604. New York, 
10022 


Staff: Soledad Alvarez Coto; Teresa 
Shelley; Javier dePaul; Teresa Seguria. 
Programs: Dangerous Loves (Amores 
Dificiles); Lorca, La Muerte de un Poeta; 
Mi General; La Colmena; Goya; Julio Ig- 
lesias special; Los Picassos de Jacque- 
line; Luis Bunuel. 


Samuel Goldwyn Television 919 
10203 Santa Monica Blvd.. Los Angeles 
90067 
Staff: Dick Askin; Jim O'Neill; Mike Byrd; 
Ray Solley; Steve Barbour; Casey Lan- 
ken; Gary Perchick; Leonie de Picciotto; 
Richard Bornstein; Ron Breitstein. 
Programs: Body by Jake; *American 
Gladiators; *November Gold 3; Novem- 
ber Gold Movies |, 2 (20 titles each); 
Explosive Movies |, I! (15, 17); Treasure 
Chest Movies (16); Family Six-Pack 
Movies (6); Goldwyn Gold Movies |, |! 
(21 each); Power Pack Movies (9); Robin 
Hood Series (13). 


Satellite Televislon Syndication 463 


Scott Entertainment 855 
Р.О. Вох 554, Westbury, N.Y. 11590 


Staff: Scott Sobel; Ronni Sobel. Pro- 
grams: Featwres, packages: Teenage 
Theatre; Rhino Films; Haunted Holly- 
wood; The Movie Classics; Roy Rogers- 
/Сепе Autry Theatre; Shock Theatre. 
Off-network series: Nostalgia Network 
One; Golden Years of Television; Case- 
book of Sherlock Holmes. Program in- 
serts: TV Facts. Specials: Dealers in 
Death. 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
76 


— = tL ن ف‎ С G ee ee ee AA 


Select Media Communications 1449 
885 Third Ave., #1220, New York 10022 
Staff: Mitch Gutkowski; Claire Scully; 
Andrew Eder; Carol Blank; Peter Hamil- 
ton; Robert Taffner; Linda Yaccarino; 
Catherine Morrow; Marlene Rochman: 
Mart Kimura; Heidi Torpey; Barbara 
Mearini: Marc Juris; Michae! Haigney. 
Programs: *InSport; Relatively Speak- 
ing; *Fifth Annual Mrs. of the World Pag- 
eant; *23га Victor Awards; "Drug Free 
Kid's: A Parent's Guide. Program in- 
seris: Today in Music History; Whodun- 
it?; Intermission; Quick Schtick; Fashion 
in a Flash; Health Break; Ask Professor 
Nutrition; Where in America?: 1-Across; 
“Breathtaking Moments. 


Seltel 837 
575 Fifth Ave., New York 10017 


Staff: Raymond Johns; Janeen Bjork; 
Lonnie Burstein; Frank Cicha; David 
Schwartz; James Murtagh; Paula 
Dopsch. Service: Station representa- 
tion. 

SFM Entertainment 833 
1180 Ave. of the Americas, 

10th floor, New York 10086 


Staff: Stanley Moger; Jordan Ringel; 
Joe Gerard; John Doscher; Amy Sauer- 
tieg; Cyndy Wynne; Jim O'Daly. Pro- 
grams: The Care Bears; The March of 
Time; Crusade in the Pacific: Crusade in 
Europe; The Indomitable Teddy Roose- 
velt; The Digital Discovery Series: The 
Infinite Voyage; Zoobilee Zoo. 
Silverbach-Lazarus Group 911 
9911 W. Pico Blvd., PH-M, 

Los Angeles 90035 


Staff: Alan Silverbach; Herb Lazarus; 
James Francis; Nicole Wonica; Toby 
Rogers; George Blaug. Programs: 
First-run series: Faerie Tale Theatre; 
The Littlest Hobo. Off-network series: 
Cimarron Strip. Mini-series: For the 
Term of His Natural Life. Specials: Ivan 
the Terrible; The Last Days of Marilyn 
Monroe; Terror!; Best Christmas Pag- 
eant Ever. Documentaries: Hillary's Ad- 
venturers; Phenomenal World; Explore. 
Feature, package: Visual One. 

International: Features: A Christmas 
Carol; Children in the Crossfire; Mrs. De- 
latield Wants to Marry; The Fifth Muske- 
teer; Full Circle Again; А Little Night Mu- 
sic; Nobody's Child; Right of Way; Santa 
Fe Trail; Six Against the Rock; Special 
Friendship; Stone Piliow; The Ted Ken- 
nedy Jr. Story; The Last Days of Patton. 
Series: Faerie Tale Theatre; Explore; The 
Littlest Hobo; Phenomena! World; Shel- 
ley Duvall's Tall Tales & Legends; Hilla- 
ry's Adventurers; Wild Kingdom: Spirit of 
Adventure. 

Specials: Ivan the Terrible—The Dem- 
janjuk Dossier, The Comedy Store 15th 
Class Reunion; John Denver's Christ- 
mas in Aspen; Season's Greetings: An 
Evening with John Williams and the Bos- 
ton Pops Orchestra; Korean War; Top 
Flight; Chain Reaction; Case in Point in 
Jerusalem—el Khaledieh Street; Terror; 
Best Christmas Pageant Ever; Return to 
Iwo Jima. 

Simcom International 1312 
86 Bllor Street West, 5th floor, Toronto, 
On. M55D 1M5, Canada 


JAN. 16-20. — JAN. 23-272, _ 


MONDAY: MONDAY: 


X- RATED 


COSMO 
EXERCISE CONFESSES 


DOES EXERCISE IMPROVE YOUR SEX LIFE? HELEN GURLEY BROWN'S 


SECRETS FOR STAYING НТ 
SPA E TUESDAY: 
EXPOSE HOT 


HOW THE RICH PAMPER THEMSELVES THIN TICKET! 
WHY FANS CAN'T GET ENOUGH OF 
WEDNESDAY LES MISERABLES’ 


WELFARE WEDNESDAY. 
FOR THE TV 9 


SHDULD THE WEALTHY RECEIVE SOCIAL SECURITY WITHOUT CENSORSHIP. SEX AND 
THURSDAY: PROFANITY SIZZLE ON TV. 


THEY SHOOT v 
ARE YOU 
ANIMALS. BLUE TOO? 


WHY MENTAL DEPRESSIDN 
FRIDAY: SEEMS TO BE SPREADING 


DEADLY FRIDAY 
EC BOSS 


THE PARTY DRUG, ECSTASY, CAUSES AGONY. 


TUESDAY: 


WOMEN EXECS AND THE COMPANIES 
THAT PUT THEM IN CHARGE. 


James McNamara; Thea Diserio; Вау 
Donahue; Laurie Fein; John Triantafyllis; 
Osvaldo Barzellato; Ray Donahue; 
Derek Malone; Noel Cronin; John Clut- 
len; Yves Witner; Aliz Davonneau; Hans 
Eksteen; Franz Elmendorff. Programs: 
Series: A Fine Romance; Crime Story; 
High Mountain Rangers; Life of Riley; 
Murphy's Law; Rags to Riches; Santa 
Barbara; Sledge Hammer!; The Bold & 
the Beautiful; The Wonder Years; Tour of 
Duty; Zorro; The Robert Giuillaum Show. 
Movies: After the Promise; Conspiracy 
of Love; Dangerous Affection; Easy 
Prey; Gladiator, Penalty Phase; Some- 
thing In Common; The Woman He 
Loved; The Return of the Incredible 
Hulk; Poker Alice. 

Mini-series: Beryl Markham: A Shad- 
ow on the Sun; Courage; Echoes in the 
Darkness; Elvis and Me; Harem; Monte 
Carlo; Queenie; Sins. Animation: Dino- 
Riders; Little Wizards; Robocop; Marvel 
Action Universe; The Marvel Catalog of 
Animation. Specials: Adventures of Two 
Minute Werewolf; Almost Royal Family; 
Can a Guy Say No; Different Twist; Don't 
Touch; Exchange Student: Getting 
Even: A Wimp's Revenge; Gramps and 
the Globetrotters; Great Love Experi- 
ment; Haunted Mansion Mystery; Her- 
self the Elf; High School Магс; | Want to 
Go Home; Mom's On Strike; My Father, 
My Rival; Mystery at Fire Island; No 
Greater Gift; The Diamond King; Truth 
About Alex; Tucker and the Horse Thief; 
War Between Classes; What If I'm Gay?; 
Workin' for Peanuts. 


Newby/Berke Productions 1625 


NHK Enterprises USA Inc. 830 
1 Rockefeller Plaza, #1430, New York 
10020 


Nielsen Media Research 219 
Nielsen Plaza, Northbrook, Ш. 60062 


Staff: Roy Anderson; Deb Anderson; 
Betsy Braun; Artie Bulgrin; Kathryn 
Creech; John Dimling; Lisa Fishetti; Hal 
Fleig; Larry Frerk; Bill Friedman; Jerry 
Gabert; Tom Hargreaves; Dave Hark- 
ness; Jack Holt; Mike Hudak; Bill Jacobi; 
Chris Janks; Susan Kam; Sandy Krause; 
Kim Lloyd; Jim Lyons; Rita Mattley; Dave 
McCubbin; Pat McDonough; Ron Meyer; 
Bil Miller; Bob Paine; Stan Petersen; 
Ann Rosenberg; Mark Saputo; Ceril Sha- 
grin; Kel Weber; Dave Woolfson. Ser- 
vices: TV Conquest; Megabase Lineup 
Report; “Dailies — Plus—Syndication; 
Pocketpiece on Diskett pc program. 


Nippon Animation Co. Ltd. 218 
10-11, Ginza ?-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 
104, Japan 

Staff: Yasuhiko Matsuoka; Hiroko Kar- 
aki; Eri Ichikawa. Programs: *Jakobus 
Nimmersatt; *The Story of Anne Frank; 
*Manxmouse; Pollyanna; Little Princess; 
The Alps Story: My Annette; Conan, the 
Boy п Future; Little Lord Fauntleroy. 


Niws Productions 839 
Norman Hecht Research 364 
66 W. Barclay, Hicksville, N.Y. 11801 


Staff: Norman Hecht; Philip Jursek; Shir- 
ley Chin; Elaine Hecht. Services: Per- 
ception Analyzer; Ratings Points news- 


letter; Rx for a Bad Book; Retail 
Advertisers Audit; News Feature Con- 
cept Appeal; Media and Advertising Ex- 
ecutive Panel. 


NTV International Corp. 413 
50 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 10020 


Staff: Yasud Ema; Takao Sumii; Jennifer 
Douglas; Aundre Мюпой Programs: 
Astrology; Ninja; The Romance of the 
Three Kingdoms; Monkey; In the Begin- 
ning; Video Kid; Living in Japan; *Live 
from Mount Everest. 


Orbis Communicatlons 1149 
482 Park Ave., South, New York 10016 


Orion Teievision Syndication 938 
1888 Century Park East, 6th floor, Los 
Angeles 90067 


Staff: J. Scott Towle; Robert Mirisch; 
Larry Hutchings; Stephen Muiderrig; 
Robert Oswaks; Kathy Haynsworth; 
Richard Zimmer, Wendy Ehrlich; Jerry 
Jameson; Thomas Cerio; Arthur Hasson; 
Don Frehe; Tara Carroll; Tim Overmyer. 

Programs: First-run series; 
Crimewatch Tonight; Hollywood 
Squares. Off-network series: Cagney & 
Lacey; The Avengers; Addams Family; 
Green Acres; Mr. Ed; The Best of Satur- 
day Night Live. 

Features, packages: Orion | (20 titles), 
II (25), IV (22), Ш (20); Orion Starview | 
(11); Orion Premieres (15); Born Wild 
(12); Chrome & Hot Leather (12); Film- 
ways (22); Monsters on the Prowl (9); 
Films for the 80's (25); Beach Blanket 
Biggies/Young Adult Theatre (14); The 
Winning Hand (25); Ghoul-a-Rama І, Il; 
The World of the Macabre (8); Films 
from the '70's (22). Mini-series: Louisi- 
ana; Blood of Others; Secret of the Black 
Dragon; King. 


Jim Owens & Associates 310 
1525 McGavock St., Nashville 37203 


Statt: Jim Owens; David Vester; Pam 
Buckley; Laurie Larson Haynes. Pro- 
grams: Weekend with Crook and 
Chase; Wolfman Jack Show; Roy Clark 
USSR Friendship Tour; Celebrities Off- 
stage. 


Outdoor Sports Network 1611 
6560 S.E. Federal Highway, Stuart, 
Fla. 34997 


Palladium Entertalnment 1350 
444 Madison Ave, 26th floor, New York 
10022 


Staff: Gary Dartnall; Nathaniel Kwit Jr.; 
Bob Cohen; Brian Firestone; Harvey 
Reinstein, Rick Bompane; Buddy 
Brooks; Ginny Wood. Programs: First- 
тип game shows: *Jackpot!; *Eye О. 

Series: Adventures of the Lone Rang- 
er; Lone Ranger Series; Lassie Series; 
Timmy and Lassie; Jeff's Collie; Sgt. 
Preston of the Yukon; Skippy the Bush 
Kangaroo; Lone Ranger Cartoons. 

Features, packages: *Palladium Silver 
(32 titles); Power Pack (22); Primetime 
90's (10); Janus Features (233); Lone 
Ranger Features (2); Lassie TV Movies 
(15); Lassie Features (2); The Big 21 
12i Adventures of the Lone Ranger 
13). 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
74 


ln — Á—Á— — —— ATE [1 чин Е LT 


Paragon International 1312 
260 Richmond St., West $405, Toronto, 
On, M5R 1K5, Canada 

Staff: Isme Bennie; Jon Slan; Kirstine 
Layfield. Programs: *Blizzard Island; 
*Extra, Extra; *The Railway Dragon; 
*Bluetoes; *Mother Goose Treasury; 
"Alyssa Milano's Teen Steam; Rac- 
coons; Degrassi Junior High. 


Paramount Domestic TV 1371 
5555 Melrose Ave., Los Angeles 90038 


Staff: Mel Harris; Lucille Sathany; Steve 
Goldman; Frank Kelly; R. Gregory Mei- 
del; Bob Sheehan; Vance Van Petten; 
Meryl Cohen; Howard Green; Jim Martz; 
Alan Baker; Steven Nalevansky; Jack 
Wartlieb; Amy Bertram; Tom Connor; 
Maryann Wiedemann; Dick Montgom- 
ery; John Nogawski; Liz Firalio; Ed Wil- 
son; Marc Hirsch; Ken Solomon; Bob- 
bee Gabelmann; Gerry Noonan; Stan 
Justice; Don Salem; Mark Dvornik; Al 
Rothstein; John Morrow; Mike Kerans; 
Maura McDonough; Bruce Gordon; Joe 
Lucas; Ramon Perez; Susan Bender; 
Mal Orme; Kevin Keely; Peter Cary; Pat- 
rick Stambaugh; Jean Pullen; George 
Mooratoff. 

Programs: *The Arsenio Hall Show; 
*The Joan Rivers Show; *Tabloid; Enter- 
tainment — Tonight/Entertainment This 
Week; Friday the 13th: The Series; Ger- 
aldo!; Star Trek: The Next Generation; 
War of the Worlds. Features, mini-se- 
ries, packages: Diamond Jubilee; The 
Winds of War; Shogun; Portfolio XII (26 
titles), ХІ (22), X (15), IX (30), VIN (13), VI 
(30), IIl (60), I (37), 1 (44); Special Edi- 
tion И (40), I (50); Preview 1! (20), It (16), 
| (14); Marquee Ill (18); И (17); White 
Christmas; The Untouchables. 

Off-network: Brothers; Webster; 
Cheers; Family Ties; Taxi; Mork & Mindy; 
Laverne & Shirley; Happy Days; The 
Odd Couple; The Brady Bunch; Star 
Trek; Love, American Style; Star Trek 
Animated; the Brady Kids Animated; 
Mission: Impossible; The Untouchables; 
Angie; The Lucy Show; Mannix; Bosom 
Buddies. Specials: Leonard Nimoy Star 
Trek Memories. 


Parrot Communications 329 
$55 Berkshire Ave. 
La Canada, Calif. 91011 


Petry Television 1215 
$ E. 54th St., New York 10092 

Staff: David Allen; Bill Fagan; Michael 
Membrado; Harry Stecker; C. William 
Schellenger; John Scognamillo; George 
Dennis; Tom Веміѕо; William Wiehe; 
Harry Stecker; Jack Fentress; Dick Kur- 
lander; Ron Martzolf; Gail Healy; Eric 
Steinberg; Rob  Hebenstreit; Teddy 
Reynolds; Tino Pappas; George Blinn; 
Steve Eisenberg; Jerry Linehan; Rob 
Friedman; Richard Larcade; Donald 
O'Toole; Kevin Nugent; Bill Shaw; Pat- 
rick Twyon; John Heise; Paul Morrissey; 
Al Westermann; Chuck Hanrahan; Joe 
Lyons; Bill Hahn; David Handler; Neil 
Hitzig; Rick Paul; Joanne Di Prisco; Greg 
Moloznik; Bob Miggins; Val Napolitano; 
Diane Gosdanian; Stockton Holt; Roger 
Stepic; Laverne Cole; Toni Kirk; Patrick 
McNew; Chuck Эша; Tom Vannelli; 


Florina 


Continues To Offer A 


Can Have А 


NATPE BOOTH 310 


M&M Syndications 1130 
1000 Laurel Oak Corp., #108, Voorhees, 
N.J. 08043 


M.K. Thomas & Co. 534 


Major League Ваѕебаії 

Productions 1463 
1219 Ave. of the Americas, 

New York 10036 

Staff: Joseph Podesta; Terry Kassel; 
Geoff Belinfonte; Peggy White; George 
Gratzis; Michael Teicher; Hilary Blinken. 
Programs: This Week In Baseball; 
Grandstand; Sports Newsatellite; Base- 
ball 1989—A Look Ahead; Weekend 
Baseball Wrap Up. 


MCA TV 472 
445 Park Ave., New York 10092 


Staff: Al Rush; Donald Menchel; Shelly 
Schwab; Jim Kraus; Bobbi Fisher; Marc 
Grayson; David Brenner; Mort Slakoff; 
Don Micallef; Richard Nailling; Paul Hoff- 
man; Tom Maples; Kenneth Arber; Kate 
Kelleher; Jeff McElheney; Bill Trotter; 
Gary Wendt; Jeff Manoff, Dan Zifkin; 
Charlotte Sweet; Robert Raleigh; Steve 
Rosenberg; Steve Hackett; Tom Russo; 
Nancy Colligan; Christopher Rovtar; 
Gerri Pare; Kathy Fenus. 

Programs: “Universal Pictures Debut 
Network Ш; *Amen; *Pictionary; *Star- 
"Play; *Lassie; *$Reward$; Airwolf; The 
Morton Downey Jr. Show; The Munsters 
Today; My Secret Identity; Out of This 
World; Charles in Charge; Kate & Allie; 
Knight Rider, The A Team; Simon & Si- 
mon; Black Sheep Squadron; Gimme A 
Break; Magnum; That's Incredible; Quin- 
cy; Buck Rogers; Kojak; The Rockford 
Files; House Calls; BJ/Lobo Show; The 
incredible Hulk; Leave It to Beaver; The 
Munsters; The Jack Benny Show; Bar- 
etta; Alias Smith & Jones; The Six Million 
Dollar Man; The Bionic Woman; Five Star 
Mystery; The Bold Ones; Ironside; It 
Takes a Thief, The Name of the Game; 
Rod Serling's Night Gallery; Run for Your 
Life; Best Sellers, |, Il; The Deputy; Thrill- 
er; Men from Shiloh; Wagon Train. 

Features: Universal Pictures Debut 
Network 1 (33 titles), Il (25); Film Fest | 
(22); Universal's Marvelous Ten; Univer- 
sal Pictures Prestige 13; Universal Pic- 
tures Exploitable 13; Universal's Most 
Wanted List (23); The Columbo/Mc- 
Cloud/McMillan Mystery Movies (124); 
Banacek (16); The Hit List (36); Univer- 
Sal Network Movies 85; Battlestar Galac- 
lica (12); Champagne Movies 34; Ninety 
Minute Movies (49); Universal Grand 50 
(48); Universal Star Spangled 33; Uni- 
versal World Premieres; Comedy Festi- 
val | (26), Il (26); Universal 40, 49, 50, 
52; Paramount Pre '48 (496); Paramount 
100 Select; Universal 53; Universal 123; 
Universal 260 Select List; Universal Col- 
or One Hundred; Universal 36 Black and 
White Elite; 77 Horror Greats; Western 
Roundup (26); Reserve (169); Diabolic 
Dozen; Dead End Kids Movies (7); Ab- 
bott & Costello (26). 


McLaughlin, Piven, Vogel 435 
30 Wall St., New York 10005 

Staff: J.C. McLaughlin; Dave Witler; Bob 
Leverone; Jane Magida. Program: *30 
Wall Street. 


Medallion TV Enterprises 601 
8881 Sunset Blvd., #100, West 
Hollywood, Calif. 90069 

Staff: John Ettlinger; Shanna Gray; Ben 
Barry; Jorge Rossi; Bunker Jenkins. Pro- 
grams: Elm Street The Making of a 
Nightmare; Action |; Action Il; Ray 
Bolger; Gambling's Invisible Thieves; 
The Making Of...; feature film library. 


Mediacast Television 

Entertainment 323 
2350 E. Devon, #250, Des Plaines, Ill. 
60018 


Staff: Tom Edinger; Pat Kelly; Sharon 
Polan; Marikay Hegarty; Mike Wickey; 
Joan Skrypek; Isme Bennie; Randy Zal- 
ken; Mitch Feldman. Programs: *Indy 
500 Highlights; *Movies at the Triplex; 
Ваше Monster Trucks; Great American 
Mystery Cars; Return of Monster Trucks; 
Super Chargers; War of Monster Trucks; 
*Bigfoot—King of the Monster Trucks; 
*Challenge of the Monster Trucks; *Big- 
foot: In Action; *Bigfoot vs. the Monster 
Trucks; *Skyfire Air Races. 


MG/Perin 1429 
124 East 40th St., New York 10016 
Staff: Marvin Grieve; Richard Perin; 
John Hess; Holly Grieve. Programs: 
First-run series: GLOW. Features, 
packages: Movie Madness 1; The Gath- 
ering Story; Churchill and the Generals. 
Program inserts: The Winning Moment. 
Specials: B.C.—The First Thanksgiving; 
В.С— А Special Christmas. Children: 
Cicero, the Queen's Drum Horse. 


MGM/UA Tetevision Syndication1035 
10000 W. Washington Blvd., Culver 
City, Calif. 90232 

Staff: Jeffrey Barbakow; Kenin Spivak; 
Trevor Fetter; Sid Sapsowitz; Norman 
Horowitz; Randolph Blotky; Anthony 
Lynn; Dick Cignarelli; Jeff Ivers; William 
Josey; Jack Smith; Joe Abrams; Mark 
Massari; Dee Baker; Kelly Kalcheim; 
Ninette Root; Paul Sumi; David Gerber; 
Phillip Smith; Chuck Atkins; John Rouse; 
Peter Preis; Andrew Bolt; Robert Horen; 
Victoria Quoss; Stuart Marcus; Bill Wine- 
berg; James Wills; Patrick Gallington; 
Gilberte de Turenne; Annabel Bighetti; 
Bill Wells; Osvaldo Barzelatto. 

Programs: Series, specials, mini-se- 
ries: The New Twilight Zone; Hot Line; 
Straight to the Heart; Group One Medi- 
cal; Fame; Bat Masterson; Highway Pa- 
trol; Outer Limits; Patty Duke Show; Rat 
Patrol; Sea Hunt: Wolper Specials. Fea- 
tures: MGM/UA Premiere Network III; 
MGM/UA 4, 3, 2, 1; UA Showcase 1-11; 
UA 17; UA Prime Time 1 and 2; Award 
Package; Box Office; Premiere; Festival; 
AAP Features; Chans & Wong; Mono- 
grams. 

International: cartoons: The Pink 
Panther; Pink Panther Specials; Pink 
Panther and Sons; Banjo: The Woodpile 
Cat; Hello Kitty: Furry Tale Theatre. Se- 
ries, specials, mini-series: thirtysome- 
thing; Knightwatch; Baby Boom; In the 
Heat of the Night; Dream Street; Kids 
Incorporated; George Washington; 
George Washington: The Forging of a 
Nation; Happy Anniversary 007: 25 
Years of James Bond; James Cagney: 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
72 


SS) 7 PE 33 ee OE 


That Yankee Doodie Dandy; That's 
Panthertainment. 

Films for television: The Man Who 
Fell to Earth; Dark Victory; Kids from 
Fame; Witness for the Prosecution; Dirty 
Dozen IV; іп the Heat of the Night; Hot 
Paint; If It's Tuesday It Must Be Belgium; 
The King of Love; My Father, My Son; 
Red River; Broken Angel; Inherit the 
Wind; Moving Target; Police Story: The 
Freeway Killings; Mercy or Murder; Lady 
Be Good; The Tenth Man. Theatrical: 
The United Artist motion picture library. 


MGM/UA's Hotline 1559 


Michael Krauss Syndication 337 
707 Westchester Ave., White Plains, 
N.Y. 10604 

Staff: Jack Firestone; Michael Krauss; 
Terry Hicks; Larry Held; Vivien Stem; 
Joan Lunden. Programs: *Mother's Day 
with Joan Lunden; *Mothers' Minutes 
with Joan Lunden. 


MMT Sales 561 
150 E. 52d St., New York 10022 


Motion Picture Council of Houston 250 


MTM TV Distribution Group 1360 
12001 Ventura Pl. #600, Р.О. Box 
7406, Studio City, Calif. 91604 


MTV Network 1326 


Muller Media 1029 
23 E. 39th St., New York 10016 

Staff: Robert Muller; Dan Mulholland. 
Programs: Features, packages: *Lethal 
Weapons; *For Those | Loved; The Great 
Escape; Top Guns; Rainbow Family; The 


Godzilla All Stars; Super Action 10; Cin- 
ema Greats; Scattergood Baines; Above 
and Beyond. Cartoons: The New Three 
Stooges. Special: Action | & Il. Series: 
The Making Of... 


Multimedia Entertainment 719 
75 Rockefeller Plaza, 22d floor, 
New York 10019 


Staff: Peter Lund; Thomas Shannon; 
Bruce Johansen; Ed Monahan; Judith 
Bernat; Nancy Cook; Norm Hayes; Gerry 
Philpott; Mike Marsho. Programs: Mag- 
azine, talk: Donahue; Sally Jessy Ra- 
phael. Game show: Sweethearts. Spe- 
cials, packages: An Appointment with 
Sherlock Holmes. 


Muscular Dystrophy Assoc. 1220 
810 Seventh Ave., New York 10019 
Staff: Robert Ross; Geraid Weinberg; 
Roylance Sharp; Craig Wood: Gerald 
Auerbach. Program: The Jerry Lewis 
Labor Day Telethon. 


NATPE Net 1324 
NDR international 1211 


New World Television 611 
180 Е. 59th St., New York 10022 
Staff: Edward Gradinger; Tony Brown; 
Joe Middelburg; Monte Lounsbury; Tony 
Fasola; Frank Browne; Sandy Lang; Gio- 
tia La Mont; Dorothy Hamilton; Renee 
Madrigal. Programs: New World One 
(18 titles); New World Two (18); New 
World Three (20); *Sledge Наттег!; 
*tife of Riley; Marvel Action Universe; 
Zorro: The Legend Continues. : 
International: Staff: William Shields; 


Cook Inlet Communications, Corp. 
is pleased to announce 


our appointment of 
Katz American Television 
as national representative for 


WTNH 8 


NEW HAVEN/HARTFORD 


атат ае а So HOW 
дшпенса CICVISIO! 


Katz 


PI LC EE -i + Cols хе ЦОХ РРО z^ 
ОПГ! tec Гү sales Hor ОГП апсе 


Е 


tOr Aak г Market Affiliates 


The best 


King Features Entertainment 949 
285 E. 45th St., New York 10017 


King World Productions 1237 
1700 Broadway, 35th floor, 

New York 10019 

Staff: Roger King; Steve Palley; Jim 
Dauphinee; Paul Hughes; Jeff Epstein; 
Steve Hirsch; Dennis Franklin; Rosanne 
Legano; Michael Auerbach; Dan Gasby; 
Patty Cohen; Betsy Green; Marsha Dia- 
mond; Jeff Grant; Allyson Kossow; Di- 
ana King; Moira Dunlevy; Patsy Bundy; 
Jim Farah; Anneile Johnson; Michael 
Shaw; Stu Stringfellow; Gary Grandolph; 
Lee Keirsted; Michael King; Sid Cohen; 
Michael Tanner; Marianne Catalano; Lee 
Leddy; D. Demirjian. Programs: *Inside 
Edition; Wheel of Fortune; Jeopardy!: 
The Oprah Winfrey Show; The Little Ras- 
cals; Guns of Will Sonnett & Branded; 
Topper; Mr. Food; Spotlight Ten; The 
Epics; Popcorn Theatre; Classic Detec- 
tives. 


Koch-Silverberg Communica- 
tions 1064 
1650 Broadway, #510, New York 10019 
Staff: Leonard Koch; Robert Silberberg; 
Patrick Byrne. Service: *Tintoretto Inc. 
colorization process. Programs: А 
Crystal Christmas in Sweden, Mrs. 
America Pageant; College Football Pre- 
views; College Basketball Previews. 


Lage Enterprises 1523 


А SPANISH EASTER 


rd 


LBS Communications 1011 
(LBS rest areas: 201, 319, 

358A, 552, 1601, 1635) 

875 Third Ave., New York 10022 
Staff: Henry Siegel; Paul Siegel; Phil 
Howort; Mike Weiden; Jon Nottingham; 
Joseph Tirinato; John Storrier; Tony In- 
lelisano; Ira Bernstein; Andrew Holtz- 
man; Steve Syatt. 

Programs: Family Feud; The Hunt for 
Stolen Treasures...Live!; Psychic Powers 
Exposed...Live!; The LBS Specials; 
Smithsonian Treasures; Test Series. 
Children: Pollce Academy: The Series; 
The Real Ghostbusters; Heathcliff; 
Mask; Inspector Gadget; The Adven- 
tures of Teddy Ruxpin, Care Bears & 
Friends at the Movies. 

Features, packages: LBC Spectrum II; 
К Came Upon the Midnight Clear; LBS 
Major Minis; Hope Diamonds (11 titles). 

Off-network series: What's Happen- 
ing!; Crazy Like a Fox; Hardcastle & Mc- 
Cormick; Gidget; Family: The Monkees. 
Music: The Story of Rock 'n Roll. Fea- 
tures: LBS Classics. 


London Weekend Television 
International 1230 
S. Bank Television Centre, Upper 
Ground, London SE 1 9LT, England 
Staff: Sydney Perry; Martha Burke-Hen- 
nessy; Suzanne Hayes. Programs: 
Wish Me Luck İl; Poirot; London's Burn- 
ing; Charles at Forty. 


[/ 


I nspire and delight your 


audience when the unbe- 
lievable becomes believable 
with a skeptical "Doubt- 
ing Thomas." You can 
schedule as one 30" or 
two 15" segments. Use 


fn 


X 


7 
Song 


coupon or call Vi Knick- 
rehm, at 314/647-4900. 


Please send me the “Ayer. Hoy y Siempre” 
Easter radio special, "Creer Es Ver" 


Кы 


Мате 


Title 


Station 


Address 


Frequency 


City, State, Zip 


Mail to: The International 
Lutheran Laymen' League 
2185 Hampton Avenue 

St. Louis, Missouri 63139-2983 
In Canada: Р.О. Вох 481 
Kitchener, Ontario N2G 4A2 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 


70 


Lorimar Syndication 950 
10202 W. Washington Blvd., Culver 
City, Calif. 90232 

Staff: Richard Robertson; David Salz- 
man; Michael Solomon; Keith Samples; 
Bruce Genter; Rod Cartier; Alicia Win- 
droth; Vince Messina; Jim Burke; Jac- 
queline Hartley; Mary Markarian; Ed 
Wasserman; Jeffrey Brooks; Dalton 
Danon; Don Ross; Jim Moloshok; Yelena 
Lazovich; Cynthia Stanley; Bruce Ro- 
senblum; Leonard Bart; Leon Luxen- 
berg; Jim Paratore; Mark O'Brien; Bob 
Sanitsky; Scott Carlin; Tom Byrnes; Rob 
Barnett; Jeannine Kadow; Damian Rior- 
dan; Scott Weber; Eric Strong; Andrew 
Weir, Mary Voll; Karl Kuechenmeister; 
Marc Solomon; Julie Kantrowitz; Mark 
Robbins; Jeff Hufford; Steve Knowles; 
Nicole Sabathie; Chris Smith; Deborah 
Robin; Jim Engleman; Stuart Graber; 
Jeff Schlesinger; Frances Reynolds; 
Brenda Geffner; Peter Valle. 

Programs: First-run series: *3rd De- 
gree; A Nightmare on Elm Street, The 
Series; Freddy's Nightmares; Funhouse; 
She's the Sheriff; Mama's Family; It's a 
Living; The People's Court; Superior 
Court; Love Connection; Family Medical 
Center, Gumby; The Comic Strip; Thun- 
dercats; Silverhawks; News Service. 

Off-network series: “ALF; *Perfect 
Strangers; Mama's Family; It's a Living: 
Alvin & the Chipmunks; Knots Landing; 
Dallas; Eight Is Enough; The Greatest 
American Hero; The New Dick Van 
Dyke/Mayberry R.F.D.; More Real Peo- 
ple; My Favorite Martian; Here's Lucy; 
The Blue Knight; Flamingo Road; Ten- 
speed and Brown Shoe. 

Features, packages: *The Premiere 
Edition (20 titles); Lorimar Family Clas- 
sics (14); Mint Edition (25); Ultra 4 (30); 
Telepictures 3 (28), 2 (27), 1 (16); Mas- 
ters of Fury (15); 22 Karat (24); Lorimar | 
(25), II (25); Sci-Fi Horror (55); Cowboys 
and Indians (32); Bomba the Jungle Boy 
(13); Deja Views (55). 

International: Theatrical, feature 
packages; mini-séries; movies of the 
week; series; animated shows; specials; 
game shows. 


Lutheran Television 315 
2185 Hampton Ave., St. Louis 63189 
Staff: Sandi Clement; Jan Meyer; Bill 
Jackson; Don Schroeder; Keith Clem- 
ent; Wayne Meyer. Programs: This 15 
the Life; Esta es la Vida; *The Magic 
Boy's Easter; Three Days; Yeshua; 
Christmas Is; The Stableboy's Christ- 
mas; The City That Forgot About Christ- 
mas; Easter 1$. 


LWT international 1230 
South Bank TV Center, London, SE1 
9LT, England 


М.А. Kempner inc. 901 
Hillsboro Professional Bldg., 

#110, 2151 W. Hillsboro Blvd. 
Deerfield Beach, Fla. 33442 

Staff: Marvin Kempner; Glenn Seger. 
Services: E-Z Tel call-in equipment; 
polling equipment: Escape/600, Tele- 
phone Poll. Programs: Excercise Bug; 
ТУ Powww. 


New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, 
San Francisco, Detroit, Atlanta, St. Louis, 
Denver, San Diego, New Orleans 
AND MANY MORE... 


ternational Circus Festival of Monte Car- 
jo; Pavarotti Returns to Naples; Magic 
Show; Magic Night; Oleg Popov: Portrait 
of a Clown; The Yehudi Menuhin Festi- 
val; Rigoletto; Revue Champagne; Sum- 
mer Time in Monte Carlo; Global Geo- 
graphic Specials. 


Globo TV Network-Brazil 460 
909 Third Ave., 21st floor, 
New York 10022 


Granada Television International1200 
400 Madison Ave., #1511, New York 
10017 


The Great Entertainment Co. 1259 
2170 Broadway, #2275, New York 10024 


Staff: John Welch; Nancy Dixon, Pro- 
grams: The Fashion Reports; Legends 
of Malibu. 


Group W Productions 629 
One Lakeside Plaza, 3801 Barham 
Blvd., 2d floor, Los Angeles 90068 
Staff: Derk Zimmerman; George Resing 
Jr; В. Kevin Tannehill; Tony Dwyer; 
Sam Cue; Meryl Marshall; Owen Simon; 
Gerard Farrell; David Jacquemin; Don- 
ald Spagnolia; Mary Fisher; Linda Ma- 
gee; Dan Cosgrove; Peter Gimber; 
Steve Parker; Glen Burnside; Brock Kru- 
zic; Patricia Brown; Jeff Hoops; Rick 
Shae; J. Michael Hudson; William 
Wuerch; Dick Dreyfuss; Catherine Mala- 
testa; Katherine Ratajczak; Lou 
Scheimer; Alice Donenfeld; Gail Munn. 

Programs: Magazine, talk, reality: 
This Evening; Missing/Reward; Can This 
Marriage Be Saved?. Entertainment: 
Life's Most Embarrassing Moments. An- 
imated: Bugzburg; Teenage Mutant 
Ninja Turtles; Bravestarr; Ghostbusters; 
He-Man and the Masters of the Uni- 
verse; She-Ra: Princess of Power; Fat 
Albert and the Cosby Kids; He-Man and 
She-Ra in a Christmas Special; A Snow 
White Christmas. Specials: Lifequest. 
Game Show: Couch Potatoes. 


Group W TV Sales 629 
90 Park Ave., New York 10016 


Staff: Ed Goldman; Jeff Osborne; Deb 
Zeyen; Bob Gore; Gregg Cooke; Emilia 
Giammarella; Beth Sosin; Steve Hoff- 
man; Chico Kurzawski; Jill Tarlov. Pro- 
grams: *Time to Care; For Kids' Sake; 
PM Magazine. 


Groupe Muitlmedla du Canada 1312 
5225 Berri, 4300, Montreal, QC, H2J 
284, Canada 


GTG Marketing 260 
150 E. 584 St., 19th floor, 
New York 10022 


Staff: Bob Jacobs; Joel Berman: Fred 
Petrosino; Brian Davidson; Bette Alofsin; 
Rick Weidner; Marc Berman. Programs: 
First-run series: USA Today: The Tele- 
vision Show. Magazine, talk: The Bever- 
ly Sills Show. 


Larry Harmon Pictures 849 
650 №. Bronson Ave., Los Angeles 90004 


Staff: Larry Harmon; Susan Harmon; 
Jerry Digney. Programs: Bozo Cartoon 
Library; Bozo Wrap-Arounds; Bozo's 3- 
Ring Schoolhouse; Bozo's Big Top; 
Bozo Franchise; Laurel & Hardy Cartoon 
Library; *Bozo Road Show. 


Harmony Gold 1229 
8831 Sunset Blvd., Los Angeles 90069 


Hecht Custom Photo 423 
1711 N. Orange Dr., Hollywood, Calif. 
90228 


Hit Video USA 1329 
1000 Louisiana, #3500, Houston 77002 
Staff: Connie Wodlinger; Laura Dodge; 
Scott Assyia; Lou Robinson. Programs: 
Hit Video USA; Countdown USA; Wom- 
en in Rock; New Music Review; Hit Vid- 
eo USA Weekly. 


Home Shopping Network 557 
12000 25th Court North, Р.О. Вох 9090, 
St. Petersburg, Fla. 38716 


Houston Association for Film 
& Television 251 


HRP 1263 
805 Third Ave., New York 10022 


IDDH 1100 
124 Rue de la Boetie, Paris, 

France 75008 

Staff: Bruno Huchez; Caroline Gui- 
cheux; Pierre Metais; Valerie Delafoy. 
Programs: Clementine; Moi Renart; 
Blue Warrior; Virgul; *Denver the Last 
Dinosaur; *Molierissimo; *Marianne. 


Independent Network/Promark 229 
11150 W. Olympic Blvd., #1100, 
Los Angeles 90064 


Independent Television Network1522 
747 Third Ave., 31st floor, New York 
10017 


Internal Revenue Service 1619 
1111 Constitution Ave., N.W., 
Washington 20224 


International Advertising Sale 1161 
482 Park Ave, South, New York 10016 


International Television Network 349 
919 Third Ave., 6th floor, New York 
10022 


International TV Enterprises 939 
420 Lexington Ave., New York 10017 


lronstar Communications 1312 
64 Heward Ave., #106, Toronto, On. 
М+М 2T5, Canada 


Staff: Derek McGillivray. 


ITC Entertainment 549 
12711 Ventura Blvd., Studio City, 
Calif. 91604 
Staff: Jerry Leider, Wm. Christopher 
Gorog; Edward Gilbert; James Stern; 
Reid Davis; Donald Тоуе; Charles Keys; 
John Herrin; Margo Raport; James Mar- 
rinan; Armando Nunez; Josh Elbaum; 
Vickie Gubbay; Dorolea Rosenberg 
Programs: Features, packages: *En- 
tertainment Volume Nine; *Entertainment 
Volume Eight; Entertainment Volumes 
One, Two, Three, Four, Five, Six, Seven; 
Cinema 12; Super Space Theater; Ham- 
mer House of Horror; The Thrillers. Se- 
ries: *Secrets and Mysteries; Calhoun; 
Thunderbirds: 2086; Space Odyssey; 
The Prisoner; Secret Agent; The Saint/- 
Return of the Saint; Edward the King; 
When Havoc Struck; Let's Rock; Let 
Them Live; The Protectors; My Partner 
the Ghost; Oepartment S; The Persuad- 
ers; The Adventurer, The Baron; Man in 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
68 


[EAE OBGLL'LLLLULLULLULULSUULLLE E NATE AO a a eS SS s ccc ине 


a Suitcase; Fury. Mini-series: Tycoon: 
The Story of a Woman. 

Specials: The Very Special Seven; The 
Julie Andrews Christmas Special; Julie 
and Dick in Covent Garden; Julie, My 
Favorite Things; Our Love Is Here to 
Stay; James Paut McCartney; Tony and 
Lena; Sammy; Superlative Seven; Julie 
and Sammy; Beatles Forever; The Enter- 
trainers; Merry Christmas...with Love, Ju- 
lie; Come Hear the Music Play; Heart 
and Soul. 

International distribution: features, 
packages: David: The David Rothenberg 
Story; Killer Instinct; The Ann Jillian Sto- 
ry; Christmas Comes to Willow Creek; 
Baby Girl Scout; Sophie's Choice; On 
Golden Pond; All Quiet on the Western 
Front; Twice in a Lifetime; Unnatural 
Causes; Oceans of Fire; Claudia; Kent 
State; Summer of Fear; The Evil That 
Men Do; Now and Forever; Where the 
Boys Are; Blackout; A Talent for Murder; 
Amos. Series: Lovejoy; The Slavs; Win- 
ners; 43 Thrillers; Foundation (Tycoon); 
Nature Watch; The Shillingbury Tales; 
Sapphire and Steel; Thunderbirds: 
2086; Let Them Live. 

Specials: A Musical Celebration; 
Crimes of Passion; Symphony on Ice; 
Romeo and Juliet on Ice; Romeo and 
Juliet with Nureyev; Giselle. Mini-series: 
Poor Little Rich Girl; At Mothers Re- 
quest; Robbery Under Arms; Billionaire 
Boys Club; Windmills of the Gods; Onas- 
sis: The Richest Man in the World. 


ITEL 939 
48 Leicester Square, London WCSH, 
7FB, England 


Staff: Tim Buxton; Frank Miller; Andrew 
Macbean; Katy Coyle; Julie Schmit- 
tinger; Peter Worsley; Margaret Hinde. 
Programs: *Antarctica—The Last Fron- 
tier; Save the Children; Queen of the 
Beasts; Subtle as a Serpent. 


JM Entertainment 1030 
133 E. 58th St., New York 10022 


Staff: Jerry Molfese; Brian Molfese; Lyd- 
ia Detorres; Christina Ortiz; Brian Wynn; 
Dain Fritz. Programs: First-run series: 
*Youthquake; Bearwitness News: Story 
of a People; Women in Motion. Specials: 
Story of a People; A Laugh, a Tear: 
Black Comedy in America; Frankie Ava- 
lon Presents; Youthquake; Spring Break 
Reunion Vol. Ill; Bearwitness News Back 
to Schooi Special; Great Bear Scare; 
The Bear Who Slept Through Christmas. 
Sports: Indy Challenge; Jockey; Thun- 
der at the Wheel. 


Joslyn Entertainment 1249 
4433 Lakeside Dr., Burbank, Calif. 
91505 

Staff: John Joslyn; Russ Kagan. Pro- 
grams: Treasures of the Third Reich. 


Katz Television Group 519 
One Dag Hammarskjold Plaza, 
New York 10017 


Staff: Pete Goulazian; Dick Weinstein; 
Paul Amzen; Jim Beloyianis; Michael 
Hugger; John von Soosten; Mitchell 
Praver; David Smith; Ruth Lee; Bill Car- 
roll; Marty Ozer; Pat Garvey; Tom Olson; 
Jack Higgins; Lucllle Luongo; Rob Ro- 
senthal; Marion Schneider. 


сч 
= D 
» 4) ч 


wept ие чл 


| 


уан тн erg Tea 


Crime Stoppers Is The Original Viewer Interactive System To Solve Crime. 


850 Crime Stoppers Organizations Across The Country And Around The World Have: 
Ж SOLVED: 201,995 cases 
2 RECOVERED: $1,283,733,191 In Stolen Property & Narcotics 
Ж PAID: $15,972,647 in Rewards ROTEN 
| ve CONVICTION RATE: 97% — 


Crime Stoppers 800 Creates А Powerful And 


PRODUCED BY: Lasting Community Image. ALLAMERICAN 


TELEVISION 


AVAILABLE ON AN cadet 1700 
ADVERTISER-SUPPORTED BASIS -466- 


VISIT US АГ NATPE BOOTH #1119 


Devillier Donegan Enterprises 772 
1608 New Hampshire Ave., Washington 
20009 


Dynocomm Productions 311 
27285 Las Ramblas, #130, 
Mission Viejo, Calif. 92691 


Ebony/Jet Showcase 1457 
820 $. Michigan Ave., Chicago 60605 


ЕС! Marketing 420 
12 W. 27th St., 14th floor, 

New York 10001 

Staff: Steve Eden; Ken Abernathy; 
Rosemary Rezende; Michael Whiting; 
Harvey Flaxman; Scott Shaw; Marteen 
Maffai; Stan Garland. Programs: *Medi- 
cal News Update; *Nutrition Quiz; *Fash- 
ion Report; *All American Hopefuls; 
*Sports Medicine Report; *Spirit of 
America’s Youth; *The Brunch Bunch; 
*The Morning After, *I's Quiz Time; 
*Second Honeymoon. 


Electra Pictures 1564 
8 Dallas Comm. Complex, LB 91, 
Irving, Тех. 75089-8510 

Staff: Joe Pope; Leeilen Childers; David 
King; Dana Ley; Marjorie Garrick; Bill 
Seymour; Amy Rojas. Programs: Se- 
ries: On the Beam. Children: *Pepper- 
mint Place. Specials: The All American 
Cowboy; *Liz Carpenter & the Good О! 
Boys. Program inserts: “Тпе 60-Second 
Workout. News: *The Teen Years: War or 
Реасе?. 


Ellis Enterprises 1312 
1931 Yonge St., #201, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada M4T 2T8. 


Staff: Cathy Ellis; В. Stephen Ellis. Pro- 
grams: Wild Guess; Birdwatch; Baby 
Animals ||; Wilderness Magic; Naturalist 
with a Camera. 


Emery Worldwide 516 
Old Danbury Rd., Wilton, Conn. 06897 


Enoki Films USA 334A 
4970 Odessa Ave., Encino, Calif. 91436 
Staff: Yoshi Enoki; Mamiko Nomoto; Sa- 
chiko Kitazawa. Programs: “Crushers; 
Heidi and the Alpine Friends; Sweet 
Strawberry Queen; Serendipity; Galvion; 
Gozurha; Kate and Julie; Mock and 
Sweet. 


ESPN 340 


Excel Telemedia Internatlonal 963 
745 Fifth Ave., #1516, New York 
10151-0077 

Staff: Ken Israel; Joan Israel; Allen Hart; 
Stanley Darer; Susan Darer. Programs: 
Features: *Perils of Problemina; “Evil 
Eye; *Stigma; *Captain O'Hara; *Venus 
Meets the Son of Hercules; *Death Ray; 
On Wings of Fire; Barry Mason—The 
Songwriter, Lifespan—A Rock Biogra- 
phy; Guys 'N Dolls in Concert; New 
Seekers in Concert; Kenny Ball and His 
Jazzmen;  Rollermania;  Terrorvision; 
Amaterur Night; Chanel Soliitaire; The 
Blockhouse; l'm Going to be Famous; 
Nightmare; Universal Soldier; Carry on 
Emmannuelle; The Legend of Frenchie 
King; Girl/Boy; The Amazing Mr. Blun- 
den; Cody; A Woman for All Men; The 
Psychotronic Man; Bonnie's Kids; Ran- 
som; Hostages; Knocking at Heaven's 
Door; Edge of Fury; The Gypsy; Sketch- 


es of a Strangler; Too Hot to Handle; 
Angry Joe Bass; Battle of the Eagles; 
Chance; Dirty Knight's Work; Duncan's 
World; Perilous Journey; The Ragpicker; 
Skeleton Key; Violent Protection; Bye, 
See You Monday; The Triple Echo; Fol- 
low That Rainbow; Last Feelings; The 
Incas Remembered: Scotland Yard; The 
Louvre; Forbidden City; The Kremlin; 
American Campus Tour; Series: The 
Leonard Rosen Show; Pathfinders. Doc- 
umentary: The Truth about Commu- 
nism. 


Extra Extra 1502 
50 E. 42 Street, New York 10017 


Filmlife Inc./Fortress Film 
Depository 1212 
141 Moonachie Rd., Moonachie, N.J. 
07074 

Staff: Marvin Bernard; John Natall; Shei- 
la Bernard; Milton Miller; Paul Deiplace; 
Larry Bernard; Russell Dupree; Mattie 
Mobley; Neily Morales; Fatima Morden; 
Peter Settimeill; Ben Harris. Services: 
Rejuvenation, restoration, protection and 
preservation of damaged motion picture 
film; TV film storage, shipping and distri- 
bution. 


Filmworld Television 901 
685 Fifth Ave., New York 10022 


Staff: Beverly Partridge; Deborah Dave; 
Robert DiMilia; Hank Guzik; Dick Os- 
trander. Programs: Dimension | & 11 (25 
titles); Family Entertainment | & il (30); 
Shock Theatre (15). 


Fishing the West 711 
5484 International Way, Milwaukie, 
Ore. 97222 

Staff: Larry Schoenborn; Charles Good- 
loe; Lana Coon. Programs: Fishing the 
West. 


Four Star International 1411 
2818 W. Alameda Ave., Burbank, 
Calif. 91505 


Staff: Lance Thompson; Robert Neece; 
George Gale; Bob Greenstein; Tom 
O'Leary; Craig Thompson; Kristie Smith. 
Programs: The New Millionaires; 
Scrooge; Nite Owl Theatre; True Holly- 
wood Ghost Stories; The Big Valley; Star 
One; Star Two; Power 20; Main Events | 
& 11; Rainbow 2,3.4. 


Fox Lorber Associates 1512 
482 Park Ave., South, #705, 

New York 10016 

Staff: David Fox; Rob Miller; Paul Grei- 
finger; Richard Lorber; Olivia King Can- 
ter; Rena Ronson; Trea Hoving. Pro- 
grams: *Overboard; *Michelob Presents 
Sunday Night; *Comedy On a Roll; 
*Wonderful Wizard of Oz; *The Story of 
Rock 'N' Roll; The Dr. Fad Show. 


Fremantle International 1439 
660 Madison Ave., New York 10021 


Staff: Раш Talbot; Josh Braun; David 
Champtaloup: Julie Zulueta-Corbo; Ellen 
Windemuth; Sarah Sessions. Programs: 
*USA Today on TV; *TV 101; *Raising 
Miranda; *The Van Dyke Show; The 
Campbells; Black Beauty; The Magic of 
David Copperfield Specials; *Baywatch. 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
66 


Fries Distribution Co. 930 
6922 Hollywood Blvd., 

Los Angeles 90028 

Staff: Charles Fries; Ave Butensky; Pe- 
ter Schmid; Larry Friedricks; Don Gold- 
en; Tim Newman; Mike Murashko; Tom 
Camarda; Paula Fierman; Lou Wexner; 
Tony Lytle. Programs: *Fries Dynamite 
(11 titles); *Fries Family Theatre I—The 
Mark Twain Collection (6); Fries Frame 4 
(23); *Time Out for Trivia; *Interceptor: 
The Special; *Tickets to Heaven; *The 
New Generation; *Born Famous; *The 
Best of Born Famous. 


Gaylord Syndicom 1311 
66 Music Square West, Nashville 37203 


Staff: Jane Grams; Hal Buckley; Martin 
Clayton; Joyce Simmons. Programs: 
Hee Haw; Babe Winkelman's Good Fish- 
ing; *Prestige I; *Casey Kasem's Rock 'n 
Roll Goldmine. 


GE American Communications 1631 
4 Research Way, Princeton, N.J. 08540 


Staff: Andreas Georghiou; Dorothy 
Ryan; Edward Campbell; Frederick 
Cain; John McGrath. Services: Video 
and audio services; voice, wideband 
data services. 


Genesis Entertainment 972 
5743 Corsa Ave., #216, Westiake 
Village, Calif. 91362 

Staff: Gary Gannaway; Philip Oldham; 
Don Springer; Diane Galella; Stanley 
Sherman; Wendy Levin; Barry Wallach; 
Rob Wussler; T.J. Kirby; Steve Smooke; 
Mitch Turner; Jerry Weaver; Mario Ma- 
chado; Wayne Lepoff, Timothy Helfet; 
Betsy Green; Marsha Boyd; Richard 
Firth. Programs: *Highway to Heaven; 
The Judge; The Great Escape; The Best 
of the National Geographic; Classic 
Country; The Rifleman; Looking East- 
/One World. 


GGP/GGP Sports 511 
400 Tamal Plaza, Corte Madera, Calif. 
94925 


Staff: David Peterson; Bob Horowitz; 
Henry Schneidman; Leslie Lombre; Dar- 
rell Ewalt; Anna Owens; Ted Griggs. 
Programs: Life After Gold; One on One; 
The Race for #1: College Bowl Preview; 
John Madden's Super Bowl Special; 
World Cup Skiing; Joe! Siegel's Road to 
the Academy Awards; Western States 
100: NFL Pre-Season Special; The Race 
for #1: Pre-Season Special; The 
$200,000 Eckerd Tennis Open; GGP Cy- 
cling Series; Man in Space: The 20th 
Anniversary of the Landingon the Moon, 
A Time Television Special; Summer 
Movie Spectacular; Holiday Movie 
Spectacular. 


Global Vision Group 449 
550 Biltmore Way, 9th floor, Coral 
Gables, Fla. 83134 

Staff: George Vaiera; Cesar Diaz. Pro- 
grams: Mini-series: The Plot to Kill the 
Pope; Molly-O; Tomorrow; Mafia; Mafia 
ll: The Octopus; Майа 111; The Revenge; 
Lulu's Sins; Treasure Hunters. Features, 
packages: GVG Movies One (6 titles); 
ОМО | (4), II (6), Ш (15), IV (8), V (8); 
Kung-Fu/Ninja Theater | & 11 (14). Series: 
Two Against the Road. Specials: The In- 


MUNICATIONS IS 


The :30 sports trivia quiz for 
sports fans everywhere. 


Health 
Break 


Jim Palmer hosts this fas- 


cinating series of health tips. 


It's :30, but the information 
can last you a lifetime. 


Professor 
Nutrition 


212/355-0033 
The informative, animated 


ek rb cie See usat INTV Suites 638,640 8 64 
patides bod o thorn See us at NATPE sooth wg 


© 1989 Select Media Commumcalions, Inc 


SELECT MEDIA СО 


Vignettes 


SMC is No. 1 in vignettes- 
those entertaining and ingenious 
short form "Zap-Busters" that 
make sure commercials are 
seen and remembered! The —— lini 
wrap-around format captures A calendar of unforgettable The :30 movie trivia chal- Legendary comedians and 
viewer attention and creates :30 music memories, one for lenge that asks viewers how пем talents provide big 
greater impact. They're the per- every day of the year. much they really know about laughs. Fast—just :15. Perfect 
fect setting for your commercial. the silver screen. for late night! 


А New KIND OF MAGAZINE SHOW 
FOR A New Kino OF FAN... 


ORI 


Its ti id i ight h b 
HOSTED BY AHMAD RASHAD — "icai sports fan, Because now heres a spons magazine 
show with such broad audience appeal, we can't think of 


WITH Co-Host ROBIN SWOBODA anyone who wouldn't love it. 


InSport. 


It's fresh. It's fascinating. A completely new programming 
concept that combines the thrill of sports with the 
excitement of entertainment. À magazine show that 
looks at the people, places and things that have 
built sports into a multi-billion dollar industry. 


With host Ahmad Rashad and co-host Robin 
Swoboda, /n Sport is a weekly half-hour your 
audience won't be able to resist. 


InSport. А new kind of show to help you win 
over a new kind of audience—everyone! 


50 Half-Hours. Available Fall, 1989. 


See us at INTV Suites 638, 640 & 642 
and at NATPE Booth #1449. 


DISTRIBUTED BY: 
ЗЕЕ C T 


Е 

в аш , 
A 

г 

иш 

Án и 


MowtvutezTro nd 
212/355-0033 


Produced by InSport Productions, Inc. - 1 
€ 1989 Select Media Communications, Inc ۰4 


sis d 


vorce Court; Death Valley Days; The Cis- 
co Kid. Film packages: Impact l; Re- 
venge Movie Package; Star Power. 


BPME 361 
6255 Sunset Bivd., #624, 

Los Angeles 90028 

Staff: Lance Webster; Jay Curtis; Greg 
Balko; Vicki Jo Hoffman. Services: Re- 
source Center materials; Video and Im- 
age magazines; seminars. 


Brite Voice Systems 411 
555 №. Woodlawn, #1-209, 

Wichita, Kan. 67208 

Staff: Bud Calvert; Tad Snarenberger; 
Dan Weatherford. Service: Cityline In- 
teractive audiotex service. 


Broadcast 437 
100 Ave. Rd., London, NWS STP, 
England 


Broadcast Management Plus 365 
1451 California Ave., Palo Alto, 
Calif. 94804 

Staff: Wally Griffin; Glen DeKraker; Rog- 
er Cooper; David Ludwig; Brian Brady; 
Chuck Briggs; Richard Lamb; Eddie 
Smith. Services: research; avails and 
proposals; Newspaper Advertising Re- 
port; Multimarket Program Analysis. 


Broadcast Resource Group 1501 
$10 25th Ave., North, #818, 
Nashville 37203 


Broadcast Standards/ 
Spanish Television 336 
2044 Cotner, Los Angeles 90025 


Staff: Omar Romay; Sandra Асипа; 


Gary Passov. Services: Videotape and 
film services; duplication; conversion; 
editing; film-to-tape transfer (telecine); 
vaulting; storage. 


Buena Vista Television 971 
500 S. Buena Vista St., Burbank, 
Calif. 91521 


Staff: Robert Jacquemin; Mark Zoradi; 
Rich Goldman; Peter Affe; Larry Fran- 
kenbach; David Morris; Randy Briggs; 
Janice Marinelli. Programs: Off-network 
series: Golden Girls. Magazine, talk: 
Live with Regis & Kathie Lee. Animated: 
Chip 'n' Dale Rescue Rangers; Duck- 
Tales. Series: Win, Lose or Draw; Sfskel 
& Ebert; Wonderful World of Disney. 
Features: Disney Magic |, Magic il; 
Treasure І. 


Calgary Television Ltd. 
(CFAC TV) 362A 


Camelot Entertainment Sales — 1249 
1700 Broadway, 35th floor, 
New York 10019 


Staff: Steven Hirsch; Michael Auerbach; 
Dan Gasby; Rosanne Legano; Marsha 
Diamond. Programs: Game shows: 
Wheel of Fortune; Јеорагау!; Win, Lose 
or Draw. Magazine, talk: Oprah Winfrey; 
Siskel & Ebert; Live with Regis & Kathie 
Lee; "Inside Edition. Features, pack- 
ages: Disney Magic | & Magic Il. Ani- 
mated: DuckTales; Chip 'N Dale's Res- 
cue Rangers. Specials: Oprah Winfrey 
Specials; Siskel & Ebert Christmas Spe- 
cial; Siskel & Ebert Academy Award 
Specials; Chip 'N Dale Special; Event 
Specials (6 titles). Unwired network: 


Camelot-Corintheon Unwired Network 
(C&C); Prime Time Schedule; Late 
Fringe Schedule. 


Capital Cities/ABC Video 
Enterprises 340 
825 Seventh Ave., New York 10019 
Staff: John Healy; Archie Purvis; Paul 
Cross; Marvinia Hunter; William Vitale; 
Armando Nunez Jr. Programs: *Lady- 
killers; “The Eagle and the Bear; *He- 
roes; Moonlighting; The Annual Acade- 
my Awards Special. 


Casablanca IV/AMG 1569 
202 N. Canon Dr., 2nd floor, 
Beverly Hills, Calif. 90210 


C.B. Distribution 1111 
141 El Camino, #110, Beverly Hills, 
Calif. 90212 

Staff: Bob Wright; JoAnne Leighton; 
Steve Schott; Linda Bross. Program: 
Carol Burnett & Friends. 


CBS Affiliate Relations 303AB 
51 W. 52d St., New York 10019 


CBS Broadcast International 457 
51 W. 59d St., New York 10019 


Central Television Enterprises 939 
35-38 Portman Square, London WIA 2 
HZ, England 01-486-6688 

Central Independent Television 
(U.S.A.) Inc. 939 
610 Fifth Ave, #401, New York 10020 
Staff: Philip Jones; Bill Allan; Ted 
Childs; Lewis Rudd; Roger James; Ke- 
vin Morrison; Clare Aiter; Bob Car- 
ruthers; Moore Sinnerton; Des Smith. 


Programs: Edens Lost; The Free 
Frenchmen; Saracen; Fields of Fire; The 
One Game; Cleo Sings Sondeim; Bang- 
ers and Mash; A Kind of Living. 


CFAC Television 362A 
222-23 Street, N.E., Calgary, T2E 7N2, 
Alberta, Canada 

Staff: David Bates; Boyd Ash; Don Kaw- 
chuk. Programs: *It Figures; *Monty's 
Reptile Show; *Kidstreet; *Musical Por- 
traits; "The Movie Show; "Men in Action; 
*Calgary Stampede. Services: Promo- 
tion. 


Cinar Films 1312 
1160, Rue Alexandre-de-Save, Bureau 
1, Montreal, Quebec, H2L 2T8, Canada 
Staff: Ronald Weinberg; Micheline 
Charest; William Litwack. 


Cine-Groupe J.P. Int'l Dist. 1312 
1151 Alexandre-de-Save, Montreal, 
Quebec, H2L 2T7, Canada 


Staff: Andre Lamy; Miche! Zgarka. 


Claster Television Production 771 
968 Deerco Rd., Timonium, Md. 21093 


Columbia Pictures TV 1049 
3300 Riverside Dr., Burbank, 
Calif. 91505 
Staff: Gary Lieberthal; Barry Thurston; 
Michael Zucker; Terry Mackin; Jeff Gal- 
lop; Leslie Tobin; David Mumford; Fran- 
cine Beougher; William Clark; Alan Dan- 
iels; Elise Keen; Bill Coveny; Gary Lico; 
Herb Weiss; John Rohrs Jr.; Stuart Walk- 
ег; Susan Grant; Joe Kissack. 
Programs: Off-network comedy se- 
ries: Archie Bunker's Place; Barney 


Broadcasting’ Jan 16 1989 
62 


SS een Oe EEE—EEEEEE————EeE—————————————— аанын на ын 


Miller; Benson; Carson's Comedy Clas- 
sics; Carter Country; Diff'rent Strokes; 
The Facts of Life; Fish; Good Times; The 
Jeffersons; Maude; One Day at a Time; 
Punky Brewster; Sanford & Son; Siiver 
Spoons; Soap; Square Pegs; That's My 
Mama; The Three Stooges; Who's the 
Boss? Off-network drama series: Char- 
lie’s Angels; Fantasy Island; Hart to Hart; 
Police Story; Police Woman; S.W.A.T.; 
Starsky and Hutch; T.J. Hooker. Fea- 
tures: Columbia Classics (34 titles); Co- 
lumbia Gems | (214), İl (22); Columbia 
Night at the Movies; “Columbia Show- 
case | (22); Embassy I! (20), Ш (20); 
Entertainer of the Year (15); Prime 4 (3); 
TV 20 (20); TVM One (19); Volume | (28), 
IV (15), V (26), VI (21). 


Commonwealth Associates 350 
24 S. Second St., Warrenton, Va. 22186 


Con Hartsock & Co. 1500 
1100 Glendon Ave., #945, 
Los Angeles 90024 


Coral Pictures Corp. 759 
6850 Coral Way, Miami 33155 


Staff: Marcel Granier; Luis Guillermo 
Gonzalez; Marco Lovera; Jose Manuel 
Pagani; Manolo Vidal; Ricardo Panne- 
йек; Hank Guzik; Dick Ostrander; Al- 
fredo Odorisio; Juan Jorge Jaeckel; 
Juan Julio Baena; Wolner Camargo; 
Phoebe Clark. Programs: Cristal (Crys- 
tal; La Dama de Rosa (The Lady in 
Pink); Atrevete (Dare); La Intrusa (The 
Intruder); Leonela; Mi Amada Beatriz; 
Primavera; Roberta; Selva Maria; Senora 
(The Lady); Topacio; Alma Mia; Abigail. 
Mini-series: Diamantes de la Muerte 
(Diamonds of Death); Mansion De Luxe 
(The Famity); Vida de Mi Vida (Love of 
My Life); Quo Vadis?, Leonardo da Vin- 
сї; Mussolini and I; Cindy; Echoes of the 
Heart; Brigada Especial, Be Good If You 
Can. Specials: Your Show of Shows; 
Fina Arts Concert in Puerto Rico; New 
Songs by Raphael; Musicalisimo; Ro- 
mulo Gallegos Theater; Tex; Hooray for 
the Three Wisemen; Mysteries of the An- 
clent World. Documentaries: Expedition 
through the Amazon and Orinoco Riv- 
ers; Expedition to the Plains of Venezue- 
la; Expedition to the Mists in the Amazon 
Jungle. Features: Venezuelan Feature 
Films (25 titles); Feature Film Package 1, 
Il, Ш. Children: Federrico. Animation: 
Pimpa; Man and His World. 


Corposant Communications 529 
256 S. Robertson Blvd., Beverly Hills, 
Calif. 90211 

Staff: John Samuelson; Arthur Pingree; 
Frank Maturo; Sam Maturo. Programs: 
News service, program insert: Your Min- 
ute Message on Meat with Frank Maturo. 


Cycle Sat 1629 
119 Willowglen Dr., Forest City, 
lowa 50436 


Staff: Timothy Hedrick; Brian Wilson; 
Richard Leet. Services: Cycie Sat's Cy- 
clecypher system; automatic commer- 
cial distribution; syndicated programing 
distribution via satellite; satellite uplink- 
ing; production; SNG capabilities; tran- 
Sponder available. 


WAYNE СОХ 


Fast talkers win...in the most original, most intriguing 
new game show in years. 


Ж All-new half-hour entertainment strip for today's huge audience of 
game-show fans. 

* Great family fun...everybody plays along. 

ж Hosted by Wayne Cox...TV's newest game-show star. 

Ж Cash/barter basis. 


SS ee wae 
PROGRAMMING TO BUILD YOUR PROFITS Si 22.44 
корооз. SM, 


NALI 
D. L. TAFFNER/LTD. ДНЯ 


(212) 245-4680 (213) 937-1144 


NATPE '89 


Walking the floor at NATPE 


* indicates new product 


ABC Distribution Co. 340 
825 ?th Ave., New York 10019 


ACT iii Publishing 500 


Advertiser Syndicated Television 
Association (ASTA) 237A 
1756 Broadway, #37, New York 10019 


Staff: Tim Duncan. Service: Trade as- 
sociation. 


АНа International 1517 


Airborne Express 212 
$101 Western Ave., P.O. Box 662, 
Seattle 98111 


Staff: Jerry Hempstead; Ann Kennedy; 
Marc Messina. Services: Air Express 
Service; Libra |! Domestic and Interna- 
tional Shipping Meter; EDI; Silver Screen 
Service. 

Alin-TV 632 
149 Madison Ave., New York 10016 


АН American Television inc. — 1119 
304 E. 45th St., 2nd floor, New York 
10017 

Staff: George Back; Joseph Kovacs; 
Conrad Roth; Сай Menk Jr.; John Rei- 
senbach; Joan Marcus; Todd Jackson: 
David Katz; Lori Koch; Larry Schatz; Ste- 
ven Blechman; Karen Strange; Wendy 
Clancy; Debbie Back; Genevieve Pi- 
turro; Steve Engelson. Programs: 
*Crime Stoppers 800; *The Video Store; 
*The Body Human. First-run series: 
America’s Top 10; Beyond 2,000; 
Brideshead Revisited; Crook & 
Chase/Weekend; Portrait of a Legend; 
The Grumbleweeds; The Jewel in the 
Crown; The Latin Connection; The Uncie 
Floyd Show. Specials: The Boy King; 
Deja View; Smart Money Specials; Mc- 
Donald’s Charity Christmas Parade; 
World Music Video Awards; An Ameri- 
ca's Top Ten Christmas; An America's 
Top Ten Book of Love; Wailer Reunion 
Concert. 

Off-network series: Fridays; The Chls- 
holms. News: The Newsfeed Network: 
The Entertainment Report; The NFL Sat- 
ellite News Service; Steve Crowley's 
Money Pro/News Inserts. Features, 
packages: All American Feature Theatre. 
Docwmentaries: Festivals of the Far 
East; Festivals of the World; Extra Di- 
mensions; Jack Thompson Down Under. 
Family/children: Chanukah at Bubbe's. 

International: Remembering Marilyn; 
The World's Greatest Stunts! A Tribute to 
Hollywood  Stuntmen; The Ultimate 
Stuntman: A Tribute to Dar Robinson; 
America's Top Ten; Treasures of the Ti- 
tanic; The Latin Connection; Lights! 
Camera! Fashion!; The Newsfeed Net- 
work; The Entertainment Report; The 
Business Report; The Boy King; Chanu- 
kah at Bubbe's; Deja View; The Busi- 
ness Daily; The Business Programme. 
American Motion Pictures 524 
7023 15th Ave., N.W., Seattle 98117 
Staff: Conrad Denke; Laura Nielson. 
Programs: *Teens Talk; Ed Hume on 
Gardening; In Search of the Wow Wow 
Wibble Woggle Wazzie Woodle Woo; 


*Home Improvements; Adventures on 
Sinclair Island. 


Amvest Video 1628 


Angiia Television Ltd. 939 
Brookhouse, 118 Park, London, "01 
4DX, England 


Applied Information Management1101 
98 Cuttermill Rd., #473N, Great Neck, 
N.Y. 11021 


Staff: David Isacowltz; Shari Neuwirth; 
Roni Podell; Melissa Blog. Services: 
Harpoon Computer Systems: Distribu- 
tion sales (domestic/foreign); advertiser- 
/barter sales; traffic/print control; home 
video distribution; rights management; 
fiscal management; office automation. 


Arbitron Ratings 1549 
142 И. 57th St., New York 10019 


Staff: Pete Megroz; Doug McFarland; 
Bill Shafer; Dennis Spragg; Jim Mo- 
carski; Barbara McFarland; Max John- 
son; Doug Marks; Kit Smith; Susan How- 
ard. 


ARP Fiims 1429 
842 Madison Ave., #714, 
New York 10173 


Staff: Claude Hill; Anne Cody; Joanne 
Melton. Programs: Cartoons: Star Blaz- 
ers; Rocket Robinhood, Educational: 
Max, the 2000-Year-Old Mouse. Series: 
Top of the Big Top; Strange Paradise. 
Documentaries: Collection; Chef of the 
Stars; Magicians of Murano; The Nose. 


Ascot Syndication Group 1534 
9000 Sunset Blvd., $1010, 

Los Angeles 90069 

Staff: Mark Rafalowski; Arthur O'Con- 
nor; Eve Joffee. Programs: *Has Any- 
body Seen My Child; *Cinema Group |; 
Fatal Distractions (6 titles). 


ASI Market Research Inc. 829 
2600 W. Olive Ave., Burbank, 

Calif. 91505 

Staff: Paul Lenburg; Tracey Gayle; Ellen 
Ryan. Service: Entertainment research 
and consulting services. 


Avery Productions 855 
4843 Voltaire St., San Diego 92107 


Bandai Co. Ltd. 1612 
Jinnan Bidg., 10-8 Kamiyamacho 
Shibuya-Ku, Tokyo 150, Japan 

Staff: Hirohiko Sueyoshi; Ken lyadoml; 
Deborah Grant. Programs: So What; 
Bakayaro—| Can't Take It Anymore; The 
Yamada Waltz; Stay Gold; The Tempo- 
rary; Love Is Always Rose Pink; Ace 2; 
Patlabor—The Mobile Police. 


Barris Industries 737 
1990 S. Bundy Dr., Penthouse, 
Los Angeles 90025 


Staff: Burt Sugarman; Peter Guber; Jon 
Peters; Jeff Wald; Scott Sternberg; How- 
ard Mendelson; Jim Ricks; Bob Cook; 
Rachel Wells; Sue Steinberg; Rick 
Kates; John Weiser; Deborah Parisi; Jay 
Silha; Brian Fleming; Jim Ricks Sr.; Rob 
Roberson; Kathy Kladopoulos. Pro- 
grams: The Newlywed Game; The All 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
60 


New Dating Game; The Gong Show; The 
Kenny Rogers Show. 


Baruch Television Group 1259 
7777 Leesburg Pike, #802N, 
Falls Church, Va. 22043 


Staff: Ed Baruch; Frank Bean; Gloria 
Kilburn. Programs: *Dog Days at the 
White House; *Money Matters from Dow 
Jones; *Stephen King's Worid of Horror, 
Part IV: Children of Horror; *This is Hor- 
ror; The Best of Stephen King's World of 
Horror; *Everything You Wanted to Know 
About Taxes But Were Afraid to Ask: 
1989 Edition; Rappin' Roots: From Bee 
Bop to Hip Hop. 


Bavaria Film GmbH 1211 
Bavariafilmplatz 7, D-8022, 
Geiselgasteig, Munich, West Germany 


Staff: Rosemarie Dermuhl. Programs: 
*Bastard; *Faust; *Death to the Dragon; 
*The Crack Connection; *Lives of the 
Cat; On the Killers Track; The Snow- 
man; The Roaring Fifties; The First Polka; 
A Square of Sky; The Assassin; the Red 
Orchestra. 


BBC Television Training 336A 
BBC Elstree Centre 

Borehamwood, WD6 1JF, England 
Staff: Gordon Croton; Shirley Grenfield. 
Services: *“Мапиа! on training for tele- 
vision production; *Videos on training for 
television production. 


BBC/Lionheart Televlslon 1337 
630 Fifth Ave., #2220, New York 10111 


Behrens Productions 1302 
51 S. West 9th St., Miami 33130 
Staff: Bob Behrens; Betsy Behrens; Bill 
Behrens. Program: Young Universe. 


Biznet/US Chamber of 
Commerce 1300 
1615 H Street, N.W., Washington 20062 


Staff: Frank Allen Philpot; Meryl Comer; 
Andrea Kosek; Mercedes Sandoval. 
Programs: It's Your Business; Ask 
Washington. 


Blair Entertainment 749 
1290 Ave. of the Americas, 

New York 10104 

Staff: Alan Berkowitz; Howard Levy; Mi- 
chael Weiser; Linda Prozeller; Ken Du- 
bow; Sam Fuller. Programs: Series: Di- 
vorce Court; Death Valley Days; The 
Cisco Kid. Movie Package: 32 titles. 
Children: The Lollipop Dragon. Sports: 
Wake Up the Echoes; Legends of Col- 
lege Basketball; College Football Scrap- 
book; Triple Crown Photo Finish; Sports 
film library. Specials: Major League 
Baseball Comedy. 


Blair Television 1319 
1290 Ave. of the Americas, 
New York 10104 


Staff: James Rosenfield; Burton Mar- 
cus; Ronald Brooks; Mike Levinton; Ken- 
neth Donnellon; Timothy — McAuliff; 
James Kelly Sr.; William Breda Jr.; John 
Poor Jr.; Mayer Levinton; John Rohr; 
Garnett Losak; Teri Luke; Timothy Her- 
bert; Floyd Gelini. Programs: First-run 


Ө 3 
Wh. 
e : 


DA P cem 
e о qe 

; TUS" UNS 
Sa Sere 


$ 


М 
МУ 


© 
SM № 
NS М 
SS 2 


м 


SSS ЕЕ" = = < ПЕЧЕНЬ == 003 7 IXGCCLHEEREEEBDS a ЕЕ e ЕЕ О <" 


gional Programing Service, Boston. 


Cable meeting—The Place for Hollywood's Best. Room 309B. Moderator: 
Char Beales, National Academy of Cable Programing, Washington. Panelists: 
Gerry Hogan, Turner Broadcasting System, Atlanta; Thomas Preston, MTV 
Networks, New York; Al Rush, MCA Television Group, Los Angeles. 


Home video meeting—How TV Stations Can Join the Video Revolution. 
Room 308A. Moderator: Bob Klingensmith, Paramount, Los Angeles. Panel- 
ists: Ron Castell, Erol's Video, Springfield, Va.; Lou Berg and Susan Gee, 
Audio/Video Plus, Houston; Alan Kaptan, Applause Video, Omaha; Gary 
Messenger, North American Video, Durham, N.C.; Barry Rosenblatt, Block- 
buster Video, San Diego. 


Community broadcasting—The LPTV Programing Prospective. Room 

305A. Moderator: John Kompas, CBA, Milwaukee. Panelists: Lana Coon. 

Fishing the West, Miller, Ore.; Mark Osmundson, K39AS, Marshalltown, lowa; 

pang Post, ChannelAmerica, New York; Robert Raff; КОбК2, Junction City, 
an. 


10-11:30 a.m.: Opening general session/brunch. Ballroom. Introduction: 
Phil Corvo, president, NATPE International. 

Welcome, opening comments: Joe Weber, chairman NATPE/MMT Sales. 
Keynote speaker: Michael Eisner, chairman and CEO, Walt Disney Co. 
Fun in Management: Matt Winstein, Playfair. 

11:30 à.m.-1:00 p.m.: 

Concurrent seminars: 

The hot regulatory issues facing television. General Assembly A. Модета- 
ter: Carl Grant, Nations Business Today/ESPN, U.S. Chamber of Commerce. 
Panelists: Brenda Fox, NCTA, Washington; Jim Graf, Contel, U.S. Telephone 
Association, Washington; Norman Horowitz, MGM/UA Communications, Los 
Angeles; Mark Mandela, ABC, New York; Preston Padden. INTV, Washington; 
Donald West, BROADCASTING, Washington. 

Kids. General Assembly B. Moderator: Actress. producer Shelly Duvall. Panel- 
ists: Bob Behrens, Behrens Productions, Miami; Andy Heywood, DIC Enter- 
prises Inc., Los Angeles; Phyllis Tucker-Vincent, NBC, New York. 

Where to find your next hit. General Assembly C. Moderator: Fred Silver- 
man, The Fred Silverman Co., Los Angeles. Panelists: Jim Dauphinee, King 
World, Los Angeles; Simone Halberstadt Harari, Tele Images, Paris; Bob 
Pittman, Quantum, New York; Deb Zeyen, Group W Sales, Los Angeles. 
Programing, promotlon & the marketing process. Room 301. Moderator: 
Sally Jessy Raphael. Panelists: Diane Bagwell, ws Columbia. S.C.; Carl 
Bauman. мпес-ту Memphis; Dick Lippin, The Lippin Group, Los Angeles: 
Joseph Logsdon, wrts-tv Tampa; Ron Lowen, kPLC-Tv Lake Charles, La.; 
Michael Mischler, CBS Broadcast Group, Los Angeles; Gary Nielsen, KPTM 
Omaha. 

1-6:30 p.m.: Exhibition. 


4:30 p.m.: International seminar: Over There, Over Here: The American 
Viewer's Growing Interest in Foreign Programing”. General Assembly A. 
Moderator: Andrew Quinn, Granada Television, Manchester, England. Panel- 
ists: Ron Devillier, Devillier Donegan Enterprises, Washington; Pat Faust, wrnw 
Chicago; Larry Fraiberg, MCA Broadcasting, New York; David Kenin, USA 
Network, New York; Bruce Rider, Disney Cable, Los Angeles; Jim Warner, 
HBO, New York. 


6-7:30 p.m.: International reception. Pre-function area/Ballroom. 


Wednesday, Jan. 25 | 


i ДЕДИР SRST i al 


7:15-8:30 a.m.; NATPE management institute: developing influence. 
Speaker: Caren Siehl. Room 306. 


8:30-10 a.m.: General session/breakfast. Ballroom. Host: Lon Lee. first vice 
chairman, NATPE, kenc Denver. Ed Foundation report: Lew Klein, president, 
NATPE Educational Foundation/Gateway Communications. 


TV with a Bite: New Directions in Talk and Magazine Shows. Moderator: 
Charlie Rose, CBS News, Nightwatch. Panelists: Morton Downey Jr.; Maury 
Povich; Sally Jessy Raphael; Geraldo Rivera. 


9:30-11:30 а.т.: international exhibition hours 


10-11:30 a.m.: Concurrent seminars 

Washington update. General Assembly A. Moderator: Edward Fritts, МАВ, 
Washington. Panelists: Congressman Edward Markey, (D-Mass.); Jeff Bau- 
man, МАВ, Washington; Patricia Diaz Dennis, РСС; Jim May, МАВ, Washing- 
ton; James Quello, FCC. 

The Art of HDTV—the Biggest Change Since Color. Room 305 B. Modera- 
tor: Peter Caranicas, Wrap Magazine, New York. Panelists: Mark Blandford, 
Daystar, Toronto; John Galt, Sony Corp., Toronto: David Niles. 1125 Produc- 
tions, New York; Barry Rebo, Rebo Studios, New York. 


What's My Job Tomorrow?. General Assembly C. Moderator: Derk Zimmer- 


man, Group W Productions, Los Angeles. Panelists: Bill Castleman, ACT III 
Broadcasting, Atlanta; Karen Copeland, wwac New York; Bobbi Gabblemann, 
Paramount Television, New York; Brad Marks, Korn Ferry International, Los 
Angeles. 


Local Program Impact. Room 301. Moderator: Bill Kurtis, мввм Chicago. 
Panelists: Gary Brandt, клёв Davenport, lowa; Mark Engel, wse Atlanta; Pat 
Patton, кмвс Kansas City, Mo.; Karen Lee Rice, ком Portland, Оге.: Joe 
Schwartzel, wink Fort Meyers, Fla. 


11:30 a.m.-6:30 p.m.: Exhibition. 


11:30 a.m.-1 p.m.: The Future of Hispanic Telecommunications industry. 
Room 306. Moderator: Michael Jay Solomon, Lorimar Telepictures, Los Ange- 
les. Panelists: Сагіоѕ Barba, Telemundo Group, New York; Osvaldo Barze- 
latto, MGM/UA Telecommunications, Santiago, Chile; Fernando Diez Barroso, 
Univisa, Los Angeles; Marcel Granier, Radio Caracas Television, Caracas, 
Venezuela; Valentin Pimstein, Televisa, Mexico City. 


6:30-7:30 p.m.: Alumni club reception. Pre-function area/Ballroom. 


Thursday, Jan. 26 | 


| 
| 


7:15-8:30 a.m. NATPE management Institute: Understanding Basic Fi- 
nance. Speaker: John Lacey. Room 306. 


8:30-10 a.m.: General session/breakfast. Ballroom. Host: Marc Doyle, sec- 
ond vice chairman, NATPE, Doyle & Associates. The Writers. Moderator: 
Dick Cavett. Panelists: Steven Bochco, L.A. Law, Hill Street Blues; Stephen 
Cannell, Hunter, 21 Jump Street; Fay Kanin, Friendly Fire, Heartsounds; John 
Markus, The Bill Cosby Show; Bruce Paltrow, Tattinger's, St. Elsewhere; Esther 
Shapiro, Dynasty. 

Chairman's award: Joe Weber, chairman, NATPE International, MMT Sales. 
New York. 


10-11:30 a.m.: Concurrent seminars: 

Can News and Programing Work Together? General Assembly A. Modera- 
tor: Nick Clooney, On Trial, Republic Pictures Television. Panelists: Jayne 
Adair, Sue Mclnerny, кока-ту Pittsburgh; Ed Godfrey, Russ Read, wave Louis- 
ville, Ky.; Steve Currie, Craig Kuhlman, ком-ту Portland, Ore. 


Syndication: Riding the Rumble Seat to the ‘90's. General Assembly B. 
Moderator: Ave Butensky, Fries Distribution, Los Angeles. Discussant: Paul 
Kagan, Paul Kagan & Associates. Carmel, Calif. 


—Your Reps Wiil Show It to You. Panelists: James Coppersmith, weve 
Boston; Roger King, King World, New York; John Von Soosten, Katz Commu- 
nications, New York. 


—First-run Fables. With: Rick Levy, D.L. Taffner Ltd., New York; Peter Lund, 
Multimedia, New York: John Ryan, Worldvision, New York. 


—Focus on the Future. With: Ralph Baruch, Gannett Center for Media 
Studies, New York; John Conomike, Hearst Broadcasting, New York; Charles 
Fries, Fries Entertainment, Los Angeles; Jim Rosenfield, Blair Communica- 
tions, New York. 


Coproductions: Canada Brings You to the World. General Assembly C. 
Moderator: Sam Wendel, Telefilm Canada. Panelists: Susan Caven, Alliance 
Entertainment; Nicolas Clermont, Filmline International; Pat Ferns, Primedia 
Productions; Claude Heroux, Communications Claude Heroux Inc.; Andre 
Lamy, Cine Groupe, Montreal. 


Music Licensing. Room 306. Moderator: Sid Vinnedge. America's Top 10, 
Los Angeles. Panelists: Les Arries, мв Buffalo; Andrew Fisher, wss Atlanta; 
Jack Zwaska, All Industry Music, New York; ASCAP representative. 


Cost Accounting: But it's Necessary. Room 301. Moderator: Larry Marcus, 
BFM, St. Louis. Panelists: Broadcast Financial Management Association rep- 
resentatives. 


11:30 a.m.-6:30 p.m.: Exhibition 


Friday, Jan. 27 


7:30-9 a.m.: NATPE management institute: Do You Listen When You 
Hear? Speaker: Norman Sigband. Room 306. 


8:30 a.m.-12:30 p,m.: Exhibition. 


12:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m.: Iris Awards luncheon. Ballroom. Host: Ray Combs. 
Presenters: Mark Linn-Baker; Meredith MacRae; Bronson Pinchot. Starring: 
David Brenner. 


2:30 p.m.: Conclusion. NATPE International business meeting. Room 
306. 


5:30 p.m.: Conference Committee party. The Last Concert Cafe, Houston. 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 


CONSISTENCY. 


Year after year, month after month, show 
after show, people know exactly what 

to expect from Donahue. Provocative, 
but knowledgeable guests. A vital and 
interested audience. And a host/ mod- 
erator who explores, with passion 

and balance, the most critical questions 
of the day. 


DEPENDABILITY. 


In market after market, you can look to 
Donahue to lead-in the time period, 
to out-rate the rest of the daypart...and 


10 beat the sign-on to sign-off averages. 


In station after station Donahue 

stands proudly above the competition 
and stands out as a lead-in to key news 
programs. In the face of declining 
television shares his audiences remain 
loyal, actually growing in recent years. 


ALWAYS FRESH AND TIMELY. 


Donahue' subjects are foremost in 
people's minds. And they are explored 
in a responsible and balanced manner. 
They touch upon the times of our lives. 
Today's times. 


Stop by the MultiMedia booth 719 at NATPE. 


qz. 


NMN 
CAPMULTIMEDIA 
ENTERTAINMENT 


First run for the long run. 


ONLY ONE... 


THE ANSWER. 


Look ahead to the 90's, and in the world 
of television programming, there are 
very few shows you can count on. But 
there is DONAHUE. For more than 
twenty years he has been there for you. 
And he will be with us through 1992. 
Guaranteed. Look ahead to the future and 
you will see DONAHUE and all of the 
qualities that have made this program a 
real winner. 


WE DON'T HAVE ALL THE ANSWERS TO YOUR FUTURE... 


Houston’s George Brown Convention Center, home to МАТРЕ '59 


NATPE '89: The Art and the Impact of Television 


This year's NATPE International convention in Houston will be on 
pace with last year's, in terms of floor space and attendance, 
according to Phil Corvo, NATPE president. ‘‘We’re looking at 
close to 6,000 people, according to pre-registration,'' said Corvo. 
Nearly 300 members of the press will be attending, and Corvo said 
that there is an increase in the number of broadcast journalists who 
will be on hand. CBS's *48 Hours [which is doing a segment on 
the convention] is bringing five or six crews," he said. 

The convention's theme this year is “Тһе Art and the Impact of 
Television.” **We've talked so much about the bottom-line of the 
industry,” said Corvo, ‘‘that we seemed to have forgotten that we 
are in a medium that can be used as an art form. With that in mind, 
we have scheduled certain panels that are geared to examine 
television as an art form.’’ One such panel that Corvo mentioned is 
“The Writers." Moderated by Dick Cavett, the panel brings to- 
gether Steven Bochco, Stephen J. Cannell, Bruce Paltrow and 
Esther Shapiro. 

Also new this year will be an emphasis on international attend- 
ees. On Wednesday, Jan. 25, at 9:30-11:30 a.m., the exhibition 
floor will be open only to the international contingent. *‘We’re 
getting more and more interest from overseas,’ said Corvo, ''so 
we felt that this was a worthwhile move." 

The convention kicks off at 10 a.m., Tuesday, Jan. 24, with the 


Tuesday, Jan. 24 


7:30 a.m.-9:30 a.m.: NATPE management seminar, Managing by Market- 
Ing. Speaker: Jagdish Sheth. Room 306. 


9-10 a.m.: Concurrent seminars: 
ABC meeting. General Assembly A. Moderator: Pat Patton, ««BC Kansas City, 


Mo. Panelists: David Lane, wraa Dallas; Cloyde Payne wexo Bowling Green, 
Ky. 


CBS meeting. General Assembly B. Moderator: Rick Reeves, wero Cincin- 


opening session. Following the opening session, and every day 
through Friday, when the convention ends, the agenda features a 
number of high-profile panel discussions. On Tuesday, at 11:30 
a.m. to 1 p.m., NATPE presents ‘‘The Hot Regulatory Issues 
Facing Television," with Norman Horowitz, president, MGM/UA 
Telecommunications, and Preston Padden, president, Association 
of Independent Television Stations. 

On Wednesday, Jan. 25, at 8:30-10 a.m., Morton Downey Jr., 
Maury Povich, Sally Jessy Raphael and Geraldo Rivera are brought 
together for a panel titled "TV With a Bite: New Directions in Talk 
and Magazine Shows.”’ In addition to sitting on the panel, Downey 
will be taping five shows while in Houston, the topics to range 
from the state of the television industry to drug trafficking across 
the Texas-Mexico border. 

Also on Wednesday, at 10-11:30 a.m., and moderated by NAB 
President Eddie Fritts, is the ‘‘Washington Update'" panel with 
Congressman Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) and FCC Commission- 
ers Patricia Diaz Dennis and James Quello. The conference comes 
to a close on Friday, Jan. 27, with the Iris Awards luncheon. The 
ceremony, which begins at 12:30 p.m., will be hosted by Family 
Feud's Ray Combs and will star comedian David Brenner, with 
Meredith MacRae and Bronson Pinchot as award presenters. 

Following is the complete agenda and a list of exhibitors. 


nati. Panelists: Kim LeMasters, CBS; Tony Malara, CBS; Scott Michels, CBS; 
David Poltrack, CBS; George Schweitzer, CBS. 


NSC meeting. General Assembly C. Moderator: Lon Lee, kenc Denver. 
Panelists: Pier Марез. NBC; Brandon Такой, NBC. 


Independent meeting—We Don't Do Windows. Room 301. Moderator: Pres- 
ton Padden, INTV, Washington. Panelists: Martin Brantley, ketv Portland; 
Charles Edwards, ктт Fort Worth; David Kenin, USA Network, New York; 
Kevin O'Brien, xvu San Francisco. 


PBS meeting—Selling Syndicated Programing to Public TV. Room 309A. 
Moderator: Tom Doggett, Oregon Public Broadcasting, Portland. Panelists: 
Robin Breed, Public Broadcasting Service; Julius Cain, BBC/Lionheart, New 
Orleans; Al Rose, New Jersey Network, Trenton, N.J.; Nikkie Scher, Interre- 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1969 
54 


AMSTERDAMNED 


AND GOD CREATED WOMAN 


GHOULIES II 


THE HOWLING III 


MACE 


MIDNIGHT CROSSING 


PARAMEDICS 


RED HEAT 


STEEL DAWN 


THE UNHOLY 


WAXWORK 


ISL3DIDIE =“ 


YOU CAN’T HURRY LOVE 


Please see us at NATPE booth 1129 


Ww 


VESTRON 
TELEVISION” 


NATPE 8 1989 


Offering a world of television programing 


ТОР ОР ТНЕ МЕЕК 


Group W Television Sales takes 
step toward unwired nation 


Premiere Announcement Network 
plans to sell local news ad spots 
in top-50 market affiliates; news 
does not sit well with rep firms 


The battle over who will control the televi- 
sion industry's developing ''unwired"" sales 
networks took a new tum last week as 
Group W Teievision Sales said it would sell 
ad spots in the local news of an affiliate 
station in each of the top-50 markets. For 
“The Premiere Announcement Network,” 
Group W has already lined up, in addition 
to its own five stations, the seven owned 
NBC stations and Multimedia Broadcast- 
ing's stations in St. Louis and Cincinnati. 
The latter two stations' participation in the 
project has elicited initial concem from 
their national sales rep, Katz Communica- 
tions. 

One marketplace executive estimated 
that close to $100 million in ad revenue 
could be placed through the network in the 
two news time periods. Group W intends to 
sell up to 10 minutes per week in the hour 
of news closest to the network evening 
newscasts, and up to seven minutes per 
week in participating stations’ late night 
newscasts. Ed Goldman, president of 
Group W Television Sales, said it was ‘‘un- 
likely" the network would sell the full 
amount, which he termed a "'ceiling."' 

Sales, which may begin as early as 
March, would be made on an "upfront" 
and possibly also a ''scatter'' basis through- 
out the year. Goldman added that whether 
upfront sales would be made with ratings 
guarantees might depend on the extent of an 
advertiser's involvement. Bud Hirsch, vice 
president, sales, NBC-owned television sta- 
tions, said the Premiere Announcement 
Network tested advertising interest by talk- 
ing with “а variety of media directors and 
several large clients.” 

As for additions to the network's station 
list, Hirsch said: ‘We have spoken to sta- 
tions in some, but not all, of the markets 
and will be devoting the next three to five 
weeks to meeting and hopefully signing 
them up.” Network contracts will be for 18 
months, running through the 1989 broad- 
cast year. Goldman said, ‘Тһе reason that 
we are using news is that it provides both 
commonality of programing and stability of 
audience delivery." 

The network will not extend beyond the 
top 50 markets—which cover roughly 
three-quarters of all television house- 
holds—said Goldman, both because of the 
cost of administering to smaller markets 
and because it was felt that there were many 
advertisers who did not need to reach the 
smaller markets: ‘Ме have found that there 
is key product usage which disproportion- 
ately fits into the top 50 markets. A lot of 
barter syndication or cable that spans be- 
yond the top 50 is wasted." 

One of the reasons that Goldman said he 
did not think the unwired networks would 
compete with the participating stations' 


spot sales—and therefore with their sales 
reps—is that he said advertisers would be 
willing to pay a premium to reach the net- 
work's desirable audience. The Group W 
Television Sales president gave other rea- 
sons: “Ме are being measured by [Niel- 
sen's] National Television Index, not local- 
ly, and we are selling to network clients or 
upfront network clients who clearly don't 
have anything to do with implementation of 
national spot.'' 

Goldman said that Group W is a logical 
choice to promote such a network: ''The 
networks are prohibited from engaging in 
this and the national reps have to deal with- 
in the lines of their client stations, which 
excludes them from the commonality of 
programing and the limitation to fifty mar- 
Кес." 

Multimedia Broadcasting President Лт 
Lynagh said that his stations have partici- 
pated in a similar network based upon those 


stations having the broadcast rights to pro- 
fessional baseball coverage 

But none of the station rep executives 
contacted were pleased. James Beloyianis, 
president of Katz American Television, 
which represents the two Multimedia sta- 
tions, said he had not yet heard details 
about the network, but volunteered: "We 
have an exclusive contract...and technically 
it would appear those stations would be in 
breach of contract." He said that Katz 
could have difficulty selling its own un- 


wired network in the local news time peri- 
ods: ‘‘These are the time periods that are 
the most protected by stations.” 

Some responses to the proposed network 
were even stronger. Tim McAuliffe, presi- 
dent of Blair Television, said, ''We are 
adamantly opposed...As soon as legal 
counsel gets back we are going to alert our 
stations of our stand on this." 


Three Virginia TV stations 
subpoenaed over price fixing 


Grand jury subpoenas were served on the 
three affiliate television stations in the 
Lynchburg-Roanoke, Va., market, and on 
those stations' national sales representa- 
tives, seeking information about possible 
advertising price manipulation. Last week's 
events, in what appears to be the first tele- 
vision price fixing investigation in 10 years, 
may not result in any indictments, but if the 
stations are found guilty, their licenses 
would be in jeopardy. While denying any 
knowledge of price fixing, the station and 
rep officials involved said they would coop- 
erate with the grand jury, which expects to 
have the requested documents, going back 
six years, delivered by Feb. 8 to Roanoke. 

There was no initial indication whether 
artifically low or high prices triggered the 
investigation into the three stations, WSET- 
TV, Allbritton Communications" ABC affil- 
iate; WDBXTV), a CBS affiliate owned by 
Schurz Communications, and WSLS-TV, 
Park Communications' NBC affiliate. Nor 
was there any indication what complaint 
had triggered the investigation. The rep 
firms involved are Blair, Hartington Right- 
er & Parsons and Katz.. 

There are two independent stations in the 
market, one of which, WIPR(TV) is operating 
under Chapter 11 bankruptcy. The other, 
WVFT(TV), is in the process of being sold 
and its current owner, Ian Wheeler, said the 
station has had a difficult time: ‘Гуе built 
on the order of eight independents and done 
well with them but this has been our alba- 
tross." Wheeler said there were technical 
and other ‘‘mitigating’’ factors that ex- 
plained the station's problems and denied 
having instigated the investigation. 

Lon Mirolli, wJPR general manager, also 
denied that his station was behind the inves- 
tigation: ‘It certainly didn't come from us. 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
50 


Our list of advertisers is almost totally dif- 
ferent from their list of advertisers and 
whoever made these allegations doesn't 
know anything about broadcasting.” 

One station group executive was skepti- 
cal that such price suppression would take 
place: ‘‘Higher prices might take just а nod 
and a wink...airlines do it by just running a 
story in the newspapers saying they are 
raising their fares and hope their competi- 
tors will follow. But to lower prices would 
take а lot more collusion.’’ 

The first of two grand jury investiga- 
tions into station price fixing roughly 10 
years ago was launched following allega- 
tions by a former sales manager in the 
Joplin, Mo.-Pittsburg, Kan., market. 
Those charges, similarly leveled against 
the three affiliate stations in the market, 
were first investigated by the FCC in early 
1977. The investigation led to a commis- 
sion order designating the stations' renew- 
al applications for consolidated hearings, 
and also to a grand jury investigation con- 
vened in Kansas City, Mo. It was not until 
two years later that the grand jury con- 
cluded its review without returning any 
indictment and not until October 1980 that 
an FCC administrative law judge cleared 
the stations of the charges. 

In February 1979 a grand jury launched a 
price fixing investigation of affiliate sta- 
tions in Pittsburgh. After several years, and 
after station expenses estimated at several 
million dollars, the investigation was simi- 
larly dropped without any charges being 
filed. 

While some of the stations may be able 
to at least partly fill in the record which the 
15-page subpoena wants to establish back 
to January 1983, the rep firms seem unlike- 
ly to be able to do so. da 


ing, on Constitution Avenue, and CNN's 
Bernard Shaw and Mary Alice Williams, in 
one that has been built on the edge of 
Lafayette Park, across from the White 
House. ABC News's Peter Jennings and 
David Brinkley, along with Barbara Wal- 
ters in the afternoon, wil! operate out of the 
network's Washington bureau. The four 
networks are committing a substantial 
amount of air time to the event, from mid- 
morning, when President-elect Bush and 
his wife leave church services, through the 
swearing-in of the new President at the 
Capitol, which is scheduled to start at 11:30 
a.m., and then at least most of the parade, 
beginning at 2 p.m. ABC News plans to cut 
away at 3 p.m., but the others plan to 
remain with it for at least another hour 
(though with varying degrees of enthusi- 
asm. The parade, CBS's Venardos noted, 
represents the country. But ‘а parade,” he 
added, ‘‘is a parade.) C-SPAN will offer 
the longest day of coverage, beginning at 8 
a.m. with its Journalists Roundtable, 
Nor will the day end at 4 p.m., or 5 
p.m., as in the case of CNN. ABC News's 
Barbara Walters was scheduled to tape an 
interview with the Bushes this week that 
will be broadcast during 20/20 Friday night. 
ABC News will take advantage of the pro- 
gram's air time to include in it live cover- 
age of some of the nine balls to be held in 
eight locations around the city. Pictures of 
the balls will also be available on CNN and 
C-SPAN. And NBC News will offer a half- 
hour wrapup of the day at 11:30 p.m. 
The interest of stations around the coun- 


try in obtaining video of their own to sup- . 


plement network coverage will be seen in 
the presence of the more than 30 Ku-band 
trucks that will be parked at the corner of 
Seventh St. and Madison Drive, hard by a 
camera platform being built on the mall that 
will afford a view of the Capitol. Most of 
the trucks serve organizations, like Conus, 
Newsfeed, Newslink and affiliate and sta- 
tion groups, that will send live and taped 
material to stations around the country. Апа 
as many as 15 will be gone before ceremo- 
nies begin on Friday morning. They will 
disperse after midnight Thursday to be on 
site for coverage of the inaugural balls to be 
held Friday night. 

Finding a location for the trucks, inciden- 
tally, was no small thing. This will be the 
first inauguration to draw a large number of 
such vehicles, and Peter McDonald, a Gil- 
lett Communications engineer who is serv- 
ing as an informal coordinator of Ku band 
truck operations, had his problems. He 
found streets being blocked off as Secret 
Service and Washington police turned 
thumbs down on proposals to park the 
trucks in various locations, and Park Police 
barring trucks from the grass. With those 
constraints, said McDonald, ‘‘there wasn’t 
much ground left to get a look at the Capitol 
and get a feel for the event itself.” 

As for the foreign interest, that may not 
quite match that shown for the political 
conventions in the summer and certainly 
not that shown for the election in Novem- 
ber. The broadcaster members of the Euro- 
pean Broadcast Union will spend less mon- 
ey on live satellite-delivered coverage of 


ТОР OF THE WEEK | 


inaugural events on Friday than they did on 
those earlier events, "Europe," as one 
EBU staffer noted, suggesting an onset of 
ennui, ‘лаз been following political events 
in the U.S. for the past year and a half.” 
Still, relying on pool feeds relayed by 
EBU, 14 stations in 11 countries will carry 
live coverage of the swearing-in ceremonies 
at the Capitol beginning at 11:30 a.m. Sta- 
tions in only four of those countries will 
stay with the coverage when cameras will 
be turned on the parade. The ITN will not 
provide any live coverage; rather, it will 
transmit packaged pieces throughout the 
day. 

For the most part, the coverage will help 
institutionalize the rituals to which Ameri- 
cans have become accustomed: the ride up 
Pennsylvania Avenue of the incoming and 
departing presidents and their wives, the 
swearing-in ceremony, the parade. All very 
ritualistic and moving. But it is not likely to 
have the dramatic impact or prove the jour- 
nalistic bonanza as did the first Reagan 
inaugural, That was dominated by the re- 
lease of the American hostages who had 
been held by Iran for more than a year. 
Even the second Reagan inauguration was 
noteworthy: the weather was so bitter cold 
it forced the ceremony indoors. 

But the celebration of the Bush inaugura- 
tion could have its moments. Among those 
set to see the Reagans off at Andrews Air 
Force Base is ABC News’s Sam (“See 
Here, Mr. President’’) Donaldson (one of 
President Reagan’s, as he was President 
Carter’s, toughest, most persistent ques- 
tioners). After three terms as White House 
correspondent, he, too, is moving on to 
other things. Even that footnote to history 
helps mark this 4151 inauguration as the 
start of something new. 


Round the dial for 
Bush's inauguration 


“This is the culmination of 1988 cover- 
age," said Mike Freedman, ОРІ. “It’s a 
real happy moment for all the networks 
because it really wraps up last year.” UPI's 
inauguration coverage will include a one- 
hour live presentation of the swearing-in 
ceremony, begining at 11:30 a.m. Eastern 
time, co-anchored by correspondents Bill 
Small and Bob Fuss. Also on Jan. 20, the 
service will present 45-second special re- 
ports every two hours from 6:55 a.m. to 
10:55 p.m. ET. At 4:10 p.m. ET, a special 
three-minute inaugural wrap-up will be fed. 
On inauguration day, ABC Radio Net- 
work will provide one-minute hourly ге- 
ports from 6:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. ET and 
two-minute hourly reports from 11:30 a.m, 
to 3:30 p.m. ET. From 4:30 p.m. to 10:30 
p.m. ET, the network will return to one- 
minute hourly reports. Live continuous 
coverage of the inauguration will run from 
11:30 a.m. ET through its conclusion. 
Coverage leading up to the inauguration 
on ABC’s Information, Entertainment and 
Direction networks will include Inaugural 
Memories with Robert Trout, featuring the 
veteran inaugural reporter. Those three net- 
works, in addition to ABC’s Contempo- 
rary, Rock Radio and FM Radio networks, 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
49 


will feature pre-inauguration programing, 
short- and long-form live programing and 
historical actualities from the Reagan years 
and past inaugurations. 

At the CBS Radio Network, live cover- 
age of the inauguration ceremonies will be- 
gin at approximately 11:45 a.m. ET. On 
that day, the network will also provide 
hourly 90-second updates from 6:31 a.m. to 
11:31 p.m. ET. Reports will originate from 
several locations: the inaugura! ceremony at 
the Capitol, the inaugural parade route 
along Pennsylvania Avenue and eight loca- 
tions where the inaugural ball receptions 
will take place. CBS news correspondents 
providing the hourly updates will include 
Rob Armstrong, David Jackson, Bi!l Lynch 
and Judy Muller. 

At National Public Radio, political corre- 
spondent Linda Wertheimer will anchor 
live coverage of the swearing-in and inau- 
gural address, beginning at 11:30 a.m., 
Jan. 20. She will be joined by analysts 
Cokie Roberts, NPR congressional corre- 
spondent, and Jim Angle, NPR White 
House correspondent; Angle will also pro- 
vide in-depth profiles of the new president 
for NPR's Morning Edition and AU Things 
Considered on inauguration day. 

Westwood One's Mutual Broadcasting 
System and NBC Radio Network will pro- 
vide special coverage of the swearing-in 
ceremony and inaugural address beginning 
at 11:30 a.m. ET and lasting approximately 
90 minutes. Anchoring the ceremony from 
their broadcasting booth at the Capitol will 
be Gary Nunn for NBC and Jim Bohannon 
for Mutual. Throughout inauguration day, 
Mutual will also provide special hourly 
two-minute reports from 6:15 a.m. to 10:15 
p.m. ET, anchored by Peter Maer, Joe 
Walsh and Paul Henderson in Washington. 
Mutual's The Larry King Show will origi- 
nate live from the main inaugural ball at 
Washington's Union Station on Jan. 20 
from 1l p.m. to 2 a.m. ET. 

NBC will begin inauguration day with 
hourly two-minute reports from 5:20 a.m. 
to 10:20 a.m. ET out of New York; at 20 
minutes and 40 minutes past each hour 
from 11:20 a.m. to 1:20 p.m. ET, it will 
originate reports from Washington. NBC 
will then go back to New York for special 
hourly reports from 5:20 p.m. to 9:20 p.m. 

United Stations Radio Networks has 
rounded up 15 of its correspondents to pre- 
sent The State of the Union, a series of 
reports that will air during newscasts and 
other as-yet-unscheduled slots on Jan. 20. 
Each report will focus on the Reagan ad- 
ministration's impact in one of several ar- 
eas, including art and culture, health, edu- 
cation, the environment and the economy. 

Associated Press will provide on its main 
channel on Jan. 20 special hourly 90-sec- 
ond reports from 6:20 a.m. to 3:20 p.m. 
ET, anchored by Wally Hinds, Bob Moon 
and Mark Smith. Reports will also be filed 
during the network's regularly scheduled 
newscasts along with additional live reports 
as warranted. Оп AP Hotline, the network 
will provide continuous live coverage of the 
inauguration from 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. 
ET, with live inauguration parade coverage 
from 2:07 p.m. to 2:29 p.m. ET. D 


ТОР OF THE WEEK С 


New radio caucus in the works 


At meeting of radio group heads, 
held to work on radio advertising 
campaign, executives massage idea 
for new informal organization 


Clear Channel President L. Lowry Mays 
described it as probably the **most signifi- 
cant event” during his tenure in the radio 
business. Emmis Broadcasting President 
Jeff Smulyan called it a ‘‘landmark’’ meet- 
ing. Spirits were high among group owners 
last Tuesday (Jan. 10) as about 40 execu- 
tives representing many of the country’s top 
radio groups met in Indianapolis. The gath- 
ering, which began as a fundraiser for the 
long-delayed National Association of 
Broadcasters-Radio Advertising Bureau 
public awareness radio advertising cam- 
paign, developed into the foundation of a 
new, informal group owner caucus. 

According to Steve Crain, executive vice 
president, Emmis Broadcasting, who was 
selected by the group owners to coordinate 
the new organization, it will be loosely 
patterned after the Television Operators 
Caucus. 

Politics and past grudges among group 
operators were put aside at the meeting last 
week, according to Nationwide Communi- 
cations President Steve Berger, who, as co- 
chairman of the NAB-RAB radio futures 
committee (along with RKO Radio Presi- 
dent Jerry R. Lyman), was celebrating the 
newfound support for the campaign. The 
committee announced that last week’s 
meeting resulted in a pledge of $500,000 
(probably closer to between $600,000 and 
$700,000, according to Berger) and an un- 
disclosed amount of donated air time from 
the [86 stations represented by the assem- 
bled group heads. 

“The idea of the radio futures committee 
came out of the concept of ‘let’s see if the 
NAB and RAB can work together,’ ” said 
Berger. ‘‘With a lot of jump-starting, it got 
done.” 

The campaign, originally scheduled to 
launch last September at NAB's Radio '88 
convention in Washington, was postponed 
and then subjected to a test market, operat- 
ing on a $600,000 budget that had been 
provided equally by the NAB and RAB. 
Berger said the process had been drawn out 
because of the difficulties associated with 
getting a committee of 12 busy executives 
to agree with one another and to find the 
time needed to discuss the issues. 

Last week's meeting was a breakthrough, 
said Berger, because the financial support 
from group operators should encourage ad- 
ditional funding from the trade associa- 
tions. With an estimated total annual budget 
of $100 million in donated air time and up 
to $1.1 million for marketing, promotion, 
advertising and professional fees, more fi- 
nancial support for the campaign will cer- 
tainly be needed. 

Details of the actual campaign—‘‘Radio. 
What would life be without it?’’—and re- 
sults of its test marketing have not yet been 
made public. The committee's stated goals 
are to ‘‘advance public awareness and un- 


derstanding of the role radio plays in peo- 
ple’s lives, raise the pride and spirit of 
those involved in the radio industry and 
increase radio's current 7% share of total 
advertising dollars." Smulyan indicated the 
campaign may still be subjected to some 
changes in the number of spots used and in 
its creative makeup. 

Smulyan added that while the campaign 
may have taken a long time to get to Its 
current status, the lengthy process may re- 
flect ‘‘the nature of the industry." While 
some have pointed to a lack of cooperation 
among group heads as a problem in the 
past, the possibility of a new group caucus 
may change that picture. 

ЧАП we want to do is just get together on 
a regular basis, see how we fecl about 
things and then let people know how we 
feel," said Crain. He said the proposed 
group of operators, representing the top 30- 
35 groups in the country, would meet three 
or four times each year. The group will 
probably meet some time before the NAB 
convention this spring to define member- 


ship criteria, meeting procedures and possi- 
bly a name for the organization. 

“We can act as a group to make our 
ideas known to the NAB, the FCC or 
whomever we want to make our ideas 
known 10," said Crain, adding, ‘‘The 
group heads can bring a perspective to 
some of these issues that people will find 
enlightening.” Technical issues are among 
the major concerns by group owners, he 
said, giving as examples the potential deg- 
radation of the FM band and questions sur- 
rounding AM power increases and direc- 
tional antennas. 

Long term, Crain said the group may seek 
to hire an executive director for administra- 
tive purposes. He stressed that the group is 
intended to ‘‘help augment the МАВ” as 
opposed to working against the trade orga- 
mization, adding that he would ‘‘absolutely 
resist" establishing а Washington office. 
“It’s not going to be very formal," said 
Crain. "The whole thing really is simply 
kind of a spontaneous decision by a bunch 
of group operators.” a 


Fifth Estate press prepares 
for hailing of new Chief 


News organizations marshal their 
armies of reporters, producers and 
technicians for inaugural coverage 


President-elect George Bush has already 
held a meeting of his cabinet. Out-of- 
towners are beginning to arrive in Washing- 
ton. Construction of the viewing stands 
along the Pennsylvania Avenue parade 
route and the camera platforms on the Capi- 
tol grounds is nearing completion. Tickets 
to inaugural events are scarce or nonexis- 
tent. Апа in the next day or two, several 
dozen Ku-band satellite trucks will roll into 
Washington, providing the ultimate re- 
minder that the U.S. and the world are 
about to witness the inauguration, on Jan. 
20, of the 415: President. 

The trucks will also symbolize the pres- 
ence in Washington of a massive press 
corps. As of Thursday, the Presidential In- 
augural Committee (PIC) reported that 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
48 


7,000 requests for press credentials had 
been received—and many were not being 
honored. One official-Dan MeLagan— 
said that *' 12 requests had been received for 
every spot” available. He did not know 
how many spots were available; he said the 
number fluctuates as new stands are built. 
But he denied the charge of a British jour- 
nalist from the Independent Television Net- 
work—who said he had followed President 
Reagan around the world only to be denied 
credentials for the Bush inauguration—that 
the PIC was discriminating against foreign 
journalists. **We're credentialing a signifi- 
cant number of foreigners," McLagan said. 
Still, many journalists—foreign and domes- 
tic—were being disappointed. 

The American networks are not suffer- 
ing from a lack of credentials, however. 
Each will deploy hundreds of troops— 
anchors, correspondents, producers, pho- 
tographers, technicians, gofers and other 
assorted support personncl—in strategic 
locations at the White House and the Cap- 
itol and along the parade route between 
those points. News executives last week 
had already been on the scene in Wash- 
ington for a week, making plans and 
grumbling about problems planners often 
encounter. ‘‘We’re dealing with people 
who can't get their schedule act togeth- 
er," said CBS News executive producer 
Lane Venardos, whose plans depend on 
the schedule decided on by the PIC. 

Still, the networks' plans as of late last 
week seemed in good shape. Anchors will 
be ensconced in temporary booths: CBS's 
Dan Rather in quarters atop the Carpenters 
and Joiners Hall, on Constitution and Loui- 
siana Avenues; Tom Brokaw, in a facility 
on the roof of the Labor Department build- 


акк) ТОР OF THE WEEK CL ee 0] 


revenue to help reduce the federal deficit. 
President Reagan's budget recommenda- 
tions include an auction proposal for non- 
mass media spectrum (see page 96). 
Industry perception of the NAB is slated 
for discussion when the board hears the 
results of a survey conducted among radio 
and television group heads concerning their 
attitudes toward the association and the ser- 
vices it provides. According to TV Vice 
Chairman Margo Cobb, wLBZz-Tv Bangor, 
Me., the results do not say that NAB is 
"perfect by any means," but she found 
many of the comments ''very encourag- 
ing.” It is also believed that there was ап 
overwhelming sentiment expressed among 
those queried that government relations 
should be NAB's primary mission. 


The joint board will hear from the associ- 
ation's chief lobbyist, Jim May, on his 
plans to reorganize and bolster NAB's con- 
gressional relations operations. May be- 
lieves the 10151 Congress is going to pre- 
sent serious challenges for broadcasters on 
a number of fronts. Directors will also be 
asked to approve a 49% budget increase for 
May's department. 

TV directors will probably devote much 
time to examining the telco report. Several 
outside consultants contributed to the docu- 
ment: Chip Shooshan of the Washington- 
based consulting firm Shooshan & Jackson; 
attorney Werner Hartenberger of Dow, 
Lohnes & Albertson, and attorney Michael 
Berg of Miller Young & Holbrooke. Shoo- 
shan & Jackson, which was to examine the 


Budget business 


The NAB joint board of directors will be asked this week to approve a $15.7 million 
budget for the association's April 1989-March 1990 fiscal year (see story, page 46). 
That represents an almost 11% increase over the FY 1989 budget approved last 
year. NAB anticipates, however, $15.9 million in income, up 10.696 from the antici- 
pated revenue proposed for FY 1989. 

Expenses in many of the NAB departments are on the rise including government 
relations, $2,205,050, up 49%; legal, $1,060,950, up 1.8%; public affairs and 
communications, $1,169,035, up 7.196; research and planning, $709,650, up 3.596; 
Science and technology, $657,100, up 21.6%, and station services, $1,268,750, up 


| about 28%. 
oie ےکی‎ na ТЕ 


o 


————————— 
British DBS gets monetary shot in the arm 


UK satellite venture British Satellite Broadcasting last week received a $238 million 
boost from its backers, and in the wake of the new investment, Australian media 
mogul Alan Bond has taken one-third control of the direct broadcast satellite 
project. 

BSB, a three-channel DBS service scheduled for operation late this year, has now 
raised more than $636 million for its head-to-head battle with Rupert Murdoch, 
whose rival six-channel Sky Television group will launch the first of its services 
beginning next month. 

BSB Chief Executive Anthony Simonds-Gooding told BROADCASTING that the addi- 
tional funds will be used for BSB's extensive movie catalog acquisitions, including 
some $600 million or more in long-term deals with five of Hollywood's top seven 
studios. BSB will also spend more than $50 million for promotion. 

Bond, whose media holdings include Australia's Network Nine, already was BSB's 
largest shareholder, with an approximately $90 million stake. But he more than 
doubled the commitment in recent weeks to some $228 million, beginning in late 
December, when he bought out $45 million in BSB shares of British communications 
conglomerate Virgin Group. 

Also increasing their stakes in BSB last week were most of the project's nine other 
investors. Among them, British electronics retailer and commercial broadcaster Grana- 
da Group increased its commitment from $63 million to $90 million, UK publisher 
Pearson from $54 million to more than $86 million, France's Chargeurs from $43 million 
to $90 million and publisher Reed International from $36 million to $63 million. 

Simonds-Gooding also said the venture has received approval from the London 
Stock Exchange for a public flotation, with a waiver of the requirement for a five-year 
trading record. BSB has not decided whether it will use a public offering to raise 
additiona! funds after the launch of its Hughes satellite next August. 

Simonds-Gooding added that BSB is considering bids, possibly with other part- 
ners, for a fourth and fifth channel on the satellite. The channels had originally been 
expected to remain vacant for three years after the launch, but government propos- 
als could lead to programing on the transponders as early as first-quarter 1990, he 
sald. A government decision on the extra transponders is expected by April. 

The departure of Virgin Group, one of BSB's founders, appeared to be less a 
reflection on BSB than a result of a reprivatization last fall that has forced the sale of 
other Virgin TV and radio investments. 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
47 


nature of the telcos, their size and their 
interest in video, as well as assess the fiber- 
to-home trials under way, has been retained 
by the United States Telephone Association 
on numerous occasions. Hartenberger, 
whose clients include Cox Cable, was to 
provide a regulatory, legislative and judi- 
cial overview of the issue, and Berg, who 
represents broadcasters but also works for a 
firm that represents municipalities engaged 
in legal battles with the cable industry, was 
to discuss the relationship between the cit- 
ies and cable (BROADCASTING, Nov. 7, 
1988). 

According to a source familiar with the 
studies, Shooshan concludes that broadcast- 
ing may be better off with a fiber optic 
delivery system owned and operated by 
telephone companies. But Hartenberger 
suggests that the introduction of fiber would 
adversely affect the value of station licenses 
by obviating the need for transmitters and 
broadcast channels, the source said. 

The delivery of broadcast signals by tele- 
phone companies over a fiber optic network 
poses many questions. Telco entry will cre- 
ate competition for cable and thus, some 
feel, will help weaken the stranglehold 
some broadcasters feel cable has on them. 
Others are wary of the phone companies 
and believe the industry may be trading 
‘опе monopoly for another. '' To TV direc- 
tor Frank Flynn Jr. of Fort Myers Broad- 
casting Co., it is just “а matter of time" 
before telcos enter the television business. 

If the telephone industry becomes a play- 
er in the television business, NAB feels it 
must guarantee frec mandatory carriage of 
local broadcasting signals. 

President Eddie Fritts will provide an 
update on NAB's efforts on must carry. He 
told BROADCASTING he has been *'trying to 
put together а deal’’ with the National Ca- 
ble Television Association. Last weck, 
NCTA President Jim Mooney, in а speech 
before the Washington Metropolitan Cable 
Club, said his association would work with 
broadcasters to obtain passage of a must- 
carry law (see story, page 106). Mooney 
has previously indicated NCTA would con- 
sider backing a must-carry bill; this time he 
took that promise a step further. 

Fritts said the board will review a num- 
ber of options to craft a must-carry bill that 
would pass constitutional muster. (The 
rules have been struck down twice by the 
courts.) There are believed to be two ap- 
proaches: one calls for conditioning cable's 
compulsory copyright license on whether a 
cable system carries local signals, and the 
other calls for a straight must-carry гис 
based on a congressional determination 
that, for the sake of competition, it is neces- 
Sary to preserve a universally available tele- 
vision service—that is, broadcasting. 

According to reports, NAB wants lan- 
guage protecting broadcasters from having 
their channel assignments switched by ca- 
ble operators and requiring broadcast sig- 
nals to be placed on the lowest unit tier. 
Cable, however, is not likely to readily 
meet those demands. Observers say cable 
still has the upper hand in these negotia- 
tions since the courts have twice struck 
down the rules. o 


Attention 
Syndicators: 
We Have Your 
Stations Wired! 


Syndicators and programmers now 
have instant access to television stations 
across the nation. Through à new, 
state-of-the-art newswire, ProgramLink 
Save money and staff makes it easy to communicate with the 
time. ProgramLink can program departments you need. 
cost you less than mailing Use ProgramLink to send your 


a letter, and you don't 


ити: vital formats, timing sheets, avails, and 


technical and promotional material. 
ProgramLink's high-speed network 

is simple and reliable. It saves you money 

while increasing your effectiveness. 
Whether you need to reach 150 

stations once a week or 50 stations daily, 

ProgramLink is your first class ticket 

at an economy fare. 


You're ready to feel confident that Jp 
your information arrives where it's # 2 с 
Station Relati needed and when it’s needed. Call the " 2% бх 
dedicated system that works for you. į pa л 
Program departments \ ProgramLink. E Lu 
know that if you've sent К 420 

а message, they'll find it. 4i E 

м 


Reliability 


Relax. ProgramLink is 
serviced by the AP 
round-the-clock. 


Simplicity 
Write and send your 


postage or busy = И 
signats. ProgramLink is an up- 


rs and- running programming 


/ x чеша data network, пої а 


° t 7 high-tech fax or PC 
ө арар Боага. 
‘Om. eg ы ~ 
ny 


708 Third Avenue 640 S. Glenwood Place 
New York, NY 10017 Burbank, СА 91506 
212-682-8300 818-842-9102 


Come see us at the NATPE Convention — Booth 512. 


International; *Stellar Awards; "Lou 
Rawls Presents: A Decade of Black Goid 
Hits; *The Magic of Music; At the Movies 
Oscar Special; Dayton International Air- 
show; Gunfighters; Hollywood Christmas 
Parade; Kenny & Dolly: A Christmas to 
Remember; Living the Dream: Let Free- 
dom Ring; Mother/Daughter Pageant— 
International & USA; Mouse on the May- 
flower, The Rich and Famous 1989 
World's Best; Santa Claus 15 Coming to 
Town; Scrooge; Supermodel of the 
World 1989; Soul Train Music Awards; 
Best of Gleason; Bowzer's Rock 'n Roll 
Party. 

Animated: Ghostbusters; G.I. Joe: 
Jem; C.O.P.S.; Denver the Last Dino- 
saur; Vytor, the Starfire Champion. 

Mini-series: Emma: Queen of the 
South Seas; Hoover vs. the Kennedys: 
The Second Civil War; Ford: the Man 
and the Machine; Sadat; Blood Feud; A 
Woman of Substance; The Key to Re- 
becca; Strong Medicine; Hold the 
Dream. 

Features, packages: Republic Pic- 
tures: Color Imaged Specials; Columbia 
Night at the Movies; TV Net. Program 
inserts: Black History Notes. 


TeleVentures 1271 
1925 Century Park East, 

S-2140, Los Angeles 90067 

Staff: Pat Kenney; Bill Kunkel; Ray Lew- 
is; Mike Lopez; Noranne Frisby; Maury 
Lanken; Ed Youngmark; Kathy Zeisel; 
Jack Brandon; Jerry Leifer; Doug Fried- 
man; Drew Hallmann. Programs: 21 
Jump Street; Hunter; Sha Na Na; Pega- 
sus |; TV-l; Classicolor |. 


Television Latina 548 
550 Biltmore Way, 9th floor, 
Coral Gables, Fla. 38134 


Television Program Enterprises 1349 
875 Third Ave., New York 10022 
Staff: Al Masini; Philbin Flanagan; Mary 
Jane Hastings; Noreen Donovan; Patri- 
cia Barbera; Maureen Noonan; Richard 
Colbert. Programs: Series: Dick Clark's 
Golden Greats: Entertainment To- 
night/This Week; Lifestyles of the Rich 
and Famous; Runaway with the Rich and 
Famous; Star Search; Triple Threat. Off- 
network series: Fame, Fortune and Ro- 
mance. Specials: Dayton International 
Airshow; *Lou Rawis Presents: A De- 
cade of Black Gold Hits; The Rich and 
Famous 1989 World's Best; *The Magic 
of Music; Supermodel of the World 1989; 
*Star Search International. 

Mini-series: Operation Prime Time: 
Emma: Queen of the South Seas; Hoo- 
ver vs. the Kennedys: The Second Civil 
War; Ford: The Man and the Machine; 
Sadat; Blood Feud; A Woman of Sub- 
stance; The Key to Rebecca; Strong 
Medicine; Hold the Dream. 


Television Week 335 
Meed House 21, John St., London, 
WCIN 2BP, England 

Texas Video & Post 334 
8964 Kirby Dr., Houston 77054 

Staff: Grant Guthrie; Alan Van Dix; Tom 
Lynnes; Rick Cortright. Service: Anima- 
tion and post production. 


Thames TV International Ltd. 812 
149 Tottenham Court Rd., London, 
England WIP9LL 

Staff: Mike Phillips; Roger Miron; Tricia 
Friswell; Charles Butler. Programs: 
Benny Hill; The Thames Comedy Origi- 
nals; Robin's Nest; Man About the 
House; George & Mildred; Keep It In the 
Family; After Benny; Crime Inc; Holly- 
wood; The World at War; Destination 
America; Danger Mouse; Count Duck- 
ula; Benny Hill Specials |, Il; Crazy World 
of Benny Hill. 


TNT Special FX 1620 


Toei Animation Co. Ltd, 957 
20695 S. Western Ave., #112, 
Torrance, Calif. 90501 


Tomwil Entertainment 901 


TPC Communications Inc./ 
Channel One Ltd. 861 
Production Plaza, Sewickley, Ра. 15148 


Staff: John Phillips; Marge Sherwood; 
Bill Eckenrode; Dan Wilhelm. Services: 
Television program distribution; video- 
lape duplication; commercial integra- 
tion, billboard customization service; 
satellite space segment; film to tape 
transfers for 16/35 mm; tape, film book- 
ing service; audio voiceover recording 
and production. 


Tradewell Industries 558 
845 $rd Ave., New York 10022 


Tribune Entertainment Co. 1365 
435 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago 60611 
Staff: Sheldon Cooper; Donald Hacker; 
David Sifford; Joseph Antelo; Carol For- 
ace; Peter Marino; Mel Smith; George 
Paris; Tanya Neimark; Allan Grafman; 
Dale Laackman; Bill Lyall. Programs: 
First-run series: А the Movies; Mon- 
sters; Tales from the Darkside; Dionne 
and Friends; Charles in Charge; U.S. 
Farm Report. Magazine, talk: Geraldo; 
The Joan Rivers Show; Cop Talk; The 
Investigators. 

Movies, events, specials: Geraldo Ri- 
vera Specials; A Child Called Jesus; 
Achille Lauro; Black History Notes; 
Bowzers Rock 'n Во! Party; Mother- 
/Daughter Beauty Pageant; TV Net; At 
{һе Movies Oscar Special; Hollywood 
Christmas Parade. Sports: Chicago 
Cubs TV Network. Variety, music, come- 
dy: Soul Train; Living with the Dream: 
Let Freedom Ring; Third Annual Soul 
Train Music Awards; 4th Annual Stellar 
Awards. Animation: G.l. Joe. Mini-se- 
ries: Black History Notes. 


Turner Program Services 649 
One CNN Center, Вох 105366, 
Atlanta, 30848-5366 


Staff: Jack Petrik; Henry Gillespie; W. 
Russell Barry; John Walden; Robert 
Schuessler; Ken Christensen; Robert 
Rierson; Beth Gould; Terez Kiely; Cliff 
Matis; Carol Bomberger; Karen Louque; 
Tom Todd; Diane Lasek; Dennis Juravic; 
Tom Dwyer; David Skillman; Bob Morris; 
Sidney Pike; Howard Karshan; MaryAnn 
Pasante; Celeste Panepinto; Lisa Max- 
well; Francisco Serrador; Bill Wells; 
Greg Ell; Jean Viana; Lillian Noriega; 
Rich Hylen; Farrell Reynolds; Rich Gold- 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
80 


ЦАС ъа сох ë ŘE | 


farb; Margret Mollo. 

Programs: Features: Color Classic 
Network Two (12 tities); Color Classic 
Network Three (24); Premiere One (8), 
Two (19), Three (10), Four (15); Turner 
Entertainment One (25); Premium One 
(22); That's Entertainment (20); Vintage 
One (29); Family Fair (25); Lion One 
(25); Lion Two (30); Theatre 15 (15); Ex- 
tra-Extras (25); 10 More Extra-Extras; 13 
Tailor Mades; MGM Pre-48 Library 
(744); RKO Film Library (669); Warner 
Bros. Library (735). 

First run: The Last Word; The Beach 
Boys; NWA Wrestling; CNN News Ser- 
vice; CNN Television; СММ Newsource; 
CNN Newsbeam; Secret World; National 
Geographic "On Assignment" (Years III, 
IV, V); Cousteau's Rediscovery of the 
World (Years IV, V, VI). 

Off-network: Gilligan's Island; Medi- 
cai Center; CHIPs; The Courtship of Ed- 
die's Father: The Man from U.N.C.L.E.; 
The Girl нот U.N.C.L.E.; Please Don't 
Eat the Daisies; Daktari. 

Children: Tom & Jerry and Friends; 
Popeye; Our Gang; Warner Bros. Car- 
toon Library; MGM Cartoon Library. 


TV Horizons 1011 
875 Third Ave., New York 10022 
Staff: Henry Siegel; Mike Weiden; tra 
Bernstein. Programs: Family Feud; А 
Current Affair; Hollywood Squares; 
Smal! Wonder; Crazy Like a Fox; Hard- 
castle & McCormick; Peter Gunn/Mr. 
Lucky/The Invisible Man; Gidget; Police 
Academy: The Animated Series; The 
Real Ghostbusters; Heathcliff; Popeye; 
Care Bears and Friend at the Movies; 
Story of Rock ‘п’ Roll; The Monkees; 
Smithsonian Treasures; Fox Premiere 
Movies; Spectrum Il; The Hunt for Stolen 
Treasures...Live!; Psychic Powers Expo- 
sed...Live!; LBS Major Minis; The LBS 
Specials. 

TV Pro 1600 
21 Bisbue Moliere, Paris, France ?5001 


Staff: Joshua Jampol; Catherine Delon. 


TV World 237 
27 Wilford St., London, England 
TVMC Audio-Visuel 1312 
451 St. Sulpice, Studio K, Montreal, 
QC, H2Y 2V9, Canada 

Staff: Anne-Marie Coidebez. 


TVRC Syndication 244 
245 Fifth Ave., New York 10016 


Staff: George Nuccio; Nat Schorr; Barry 
Hoffman; Allan Infeld; Leslie Aaron; An- 
thony Durante. Programs: *Hoop Du 
Jour: Inside Pro Basketball; *Future 
Stars; *Money Clip; *Yogi at the Movies; 
*Changemakers; *Countdown to 2000. 

Services: Five unwired networks: The 
Primetime Movie Network; The Late 
Fringe Network; The Early Fringe Net- 
work; The Late News Network; The Early 
News Network; *The Weekend Network; 
The Daytime Network; The Sports Net- 
work. 


Twentieth Century Fox TV 1172 
P.O. Box 900, Beverly Hills, 
Calif. 90213 


Staff: Barry Diller; Leonard Goldberg; 
Jonathan Dolgen; Michael Lambert; 


IT'S SHOWTIME AT THE APOLLO! 


ONE HOUR WEEKLY ENTERTAINMENT 


WHERE DREAMS ARE BORN AND LEGENDS ARE MADE 


AVAILABLE 
FOR A 
3RD SMASH 
SEASON 


Two years ago, television variety show Take a look at the recent November '88* 
legend Bob Banner and Apollo Theatre ratings...7/30 in one week, in New York 
Productions introduced a definitive late night оп WNBC-TV. А 6/28 on WRC-TV in Washington. 
program "IT'5 SHOWTIME AT THE APOLLO". Unprecedented for a late night access show. 
Now, in just two seasons, “SHOWTIME” has Dallas... Charleston... Chicago... 
established a success in television The APOLLO legend is growing. 


that legends are made of... 


Late Night Belongs To 
“IT'S SHOWTIME AT THE APOLLO" 
... Where The Legend Continues 


TALK TO US AT N.A.T.P.E. WE'RE AT RAYMOND HORN SYNDICATION. 
BOOTH 255 


Leonard Grossi; Joseph Greene: Dan 
Greenblatt; Tony Bauer; John Campag- 
nolo; Matthew Jacobson; Michael New- 
som; Vic Zimmerman; Patti Jennings; 
Ben Begun; Robert Fleming; Ken Rich- 
ards; Timothy Mudd; David Ozer; Barba- 
ra Van Burkirk; Paul Franklin; Ron Gea- 
gan; Jeff Stern; Chris Pozanac; Jennifer 
Fate; George Gubert; Stephen Fried- 
man; Patricia Fitgerald; Fred Bierman; J. 
Mathy Simon; Kevin Burns; Carolyn 
Spencer. 

Programs: A Current Affair, A Current 
Affair Extra; Mr. Belvedere; Small Won- 
der; Fox Hollywood Theatre; Fox Mini- 
Series I; Century 13, 14; Fox Premiere Il; 
Fox Premiere Ill; M'*A'S'H; Miller's 
Court; Expedition: Danger; Dynasty; Ve- 
gas; The Ann Sothern Show; Movin' On; 
The Untamed World; The Paper Chase; 
Kellys Avengers; Sara Dane; Roots of 
Rock 'N' Roll; Animals Express; Wild 
Times; Roughnecks; Empire Inc.; Spear- 
field's Daughter; All the River Run; Shir- 
ley Temple Theatre; Arnie; Blue Light; 
Breakaway; That's Hollywood; Circus; 
Best of Jackie Gleason; Top Rank Fights 
of the Seventies; Adventures in Para- 
dise; Audubon Wildlife Theatre; Batman; 
Bracken's World; Broken Arrow; Bus 
Stop; Cheap Show; Julia; Loner; Century 
5, 6, 7; Olympiad; А Little Princess; For- 
tunes of Nigel; The Pathfinder; Seven 
Little Wolcotts; Cartoons; Doctor Doolit- 
tle; Fantastic Voyage; The Hardy Boys; 
Journey to the Center of the Earth; Cir- 
cus; Daniel Boone; Doby Gillis; Encyclo- 
pedia Britannica Educational Corpora- 
tion Presents; Incredible World of 
Adventure; The Felony Squad: Five Fin- 
gers; Follow the Sun; The Ghost and 
Mrs. Muir; Fox One; Golden Century; 
Green Hornet; Hong Kong; Jack the Rip- 
per; Journey to the Unknown; Judd for 
the Defense; Lancer; Land of the Giants; 
Lost in Space; Mark |; Nanny and the 
Professor; Masquerade Party; The Mon- 
roes; My Friend Flicka; Orson Weiles 
Great Mysteries; Peyton Place; Room 
222; Salty; Shari Show; The Starlost; The 
Time Tunnel; 12 O'Clock High; Voyage 
to the Bottom of the Sea; Numero Uno; 
Paper Chase; Monte Carlo Show; T.H.E. 
Hospital; Best of Midnight Special; Far- 
ber; Strange True Stories; Trapper 
John; This Business of Living; Anatomy 
of a Crime; Undersea World of Jacques 
Cousteau; Jane Goodall & the World of 
Animal Behavior; Great American Music 
Celebration; Truth About Houdini; The 
Superbowl—The Final Sunday; Borrow- 
ers; Edith Piaf...| Regret Nothing; Fred 
Astair Hollywood; Fred Astair Salutes the 
Fox Musicals; Salute to Lady Liberty; Di- 
vorce: Kids in the Middle; Star Wars 
Holiday Special; The Nativity; The Mak- 
ing of Star Wars; President's Command 
Performance; Sex, Teenage Style; 20th 
Century-Fox Presents; The War to End 
All Wars; They Write the Songs; World 
Game of Tennis; Paul Newman: The Man 
and His Movies; Movietone News; 
Smithsonian Discovery Theater; Inside 
Russia; Future Shock; Time of Man; On 
and Off Camera; This Day in Sports; 
Planet of the Apes; Cartoons; Holly- 
wood, the Gift of Laughter; Voyages of 


Dr. Doolittle; Assassins Among Us; Can- 
cer Confrontation; Groovie Goolies & 
Friends; Crusader Rabbit; Boy in the 
Bush; My Cousin Rachel. 


U.S. Army Reserve 439 
Attn: DAAR-PA 
Washington 20310 


Staff: Capt. Mark Zimmer. Services: 

Public service announcements, video 

news release spots. 

U.S. Nippon Communications 1621 

The Plaza, 2 №. 59th St., 

New York 10019 

Staff: Eiso Kawamoto; Shinji Tamiya; 

Ginji Sawa; Mimi Matsumoto. 
Programs: Business Nippon; Japan 

Digest; Let's Learn Japanese. 


Ulster Television 939 
United Industries 238 
Uniworld Entertainment 330 
1250 Broadway, 36th floor, 

New York 10001 


Unreel Productions 


Up with People 
8108 М. Campbell Ave., 
Tucson, Ariz. 85719 


Vestron Television 1129 

2029 Century Park East, #200, 

Los Angeles 90067 

Staff: Julian Levin Sr.; David Armstrong; 

Strauss Zelnick; Bruce Casino; John Wit- 

te; Tim Lavender; Karen Setten; Gary 

Barber; Edwin Friendly; Austin Furst. 
Programs: Features, packages: *Hot 

Tickets (12 titles); First Images (12); 

Double Images (10); Empire of Terror 


(19). Special: *Dirty Dancing: Live in 
Concert. Доси-4талназ: *Eyes of War. 


Via Le Monde Productions 1312 
326 St. Paul-West, Montreal, 
QC Н?Ү 2A8, Canada 
Viacom 811 
1211 Ave. of the Americas, 
New York 10036 
Staff: Sumner Redstone; Frank Biondi 
Jr.; George Smith Jr.; Mark Weinstein; 
Thomas Dooley; Henry Schleiff; Gus Lu- 
cas; Robert Tucci; Katherine Hogan; 
George Faber; Betsy Vorce; Arthur Kan- 
anack; Michael Gerber; Joseph Zaleski; 
Paul Kalvin; Dennis Gillespie; Toby Mar- 
tin; Peter Newman; Howard Berk; Elissa 
Lebeck; Lisa Merians; Andrew Spitzer; 
Eric Veale; Scott Kolber; Kenyon Kra- 
mer; Nanci Orgel; Gerald Pinks; Brooks 
Carroll; Dennis Emerson; Frank Flana- 
gan; David Campbell; Joseph DiSalvo; 
Sean Deneny; Douglas Knight; Sid 
Beighly; Gayle Dickie; John Gee; Jo- 
seph Kiselica; Bob Mahlman; Thomas 
Tannenbaum; Raul Lefovich; Adam 
Singer; Bruce Boro; Noreen Brittenham. 
Programs: Special: Special Delivery. 
First run: *Betcha; *Trial Ву Jury; *Su- 
per Mario Brothers' "Super" Show; *Re- 
mote Control; *1989 MTV Video Music 
Awards; Double Dare; Finder's Keepers; 
Superboy; This Morning's Business. Se- 
ries: The Cosby Show; All in the Family; 
The Andy Griffith Snow; Bizarre; The 
Bob Newhart Show; The Beverly Hillbil- 
lies; Cannon; Clint Eastwood in Raw- 
hide; December Bride; Dempsey & Ma- 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
82 


LC ——Á——————————— |||? i Бенин: Á ee eLLÉ. 


kepeace; The Dick Van Dyke Show; 
Family Affair; Gomer Pyle; Gunsmoke; 
Hawaii Five-O; Have Gun Will Travel; 
The Honeymooners; Hogan's Heroes; ! 
Love Lucy; The Life and Times of Grizzly 
Adams; Marshall Dillon; The Mary Tyler 
Moore Show; My Three Sons; Our Miss 
Brooks; Perry Mason; Petticoat Junction; 
Rawhide; The Rookies; Split Second; 
Twentieth Century; The Twilight Zone; 
Whirlybirds; The Wild, Wild West. 

Animated: Mighty Mouse апа 
Friends; Terrytoons; Harlem Globetrot- 
ters; The Alvin Show. Features, pack- 
ages: Viacom Features, |, 11, Ш, IV, V, МІ, 
VII, Vill, IX, X, XI, ХИ, “XIII; Viacom Movie 
Greats; Expioitables |, 111, IV; The Leg- 
end Group; Young and Reckless; Gasp 
Science Fiction; Gasp Horror; Thema- 
tics; TV Net (Tonight Only). 


Vid-Film Services 412 
1681 Gardena Ave., Glendale, 
Calif. 91204 


Video Media Marketing Ltd. 1528 
580 W. 28d St., 

New York 10011 

Staff: Brian O'Daly; Paul Berkowitz; 
Larry Casey; Bonnie Williams. Pro- 
grams: *Cinemagic (10 titles); *Knock- 
out (10); *Network Showcase (11). 


Video Tape Co. 700 
105,5 Burbank Blvd., N. Hollywood, 
Calif. 91601-2280 

Staff: Gary Worth; Jon Duncan; Larry 
Birstock; Sharon Beverly; Ted Sobel; 
Frank Cavaioli; Keith Austin. Services: 
VTC Satellite Network; Hotline; Spotnet; 


film-to-tape transfer, standards conver- 
sion; traffic and fulfillment; videotape du- 
plication. 

Video Yesteryear 356 
Box C, Sandy Hook, Conn. 06470 
Staff: Jon Sonneborn; Michael Ro- 
phone. Programs: Films: Adventure 
(52 titles); Avant Garde (3); Black (14); 
Bloopers (5); Cartoons (19); Classic 
(76); Comedy (146); Crime, Mystery, 
Suspense (88); Documentaries (76); 
Drama (172); Especially for Children 
(70); Foreign Classic (139); Horror, Sci- 
Fi (46); Musical (56); Seriais (42); Silent 
Comedies (75); Silent Drama (102); Si- 
lent Cartoons (8); Silent Westerns (13); 
Turkeys (28); Vintage TV (177); West- 
erns (81). 

Visual Productions '80 Ltd. 1312 
101 Niagara St., #2, Toronto, Ontario, 
М5У 163, Canada 


Staff: Beverly Shenken. 


Wall Street Journal TV 
200 Liberty St., 14th floor, 
New York 10281 


WOR International 1211 


Weiss Global Enterprises 900 
2055 Saviers Rd., #12, 

Oxnard, Calif. 93033-3693 

Staff: Adrian Weiss; Ethel Weiss; Steven 
Weiss; Laurie Weiss. Programs: Fea- 
tures: For Adults Only; Galaxy 15; Gold- 
en Showmanship 9; Impact 120; Parade 
4; Vintage Flicks; Westerns. Documenta- 
ries: The Brave Rifles; Our Time п Hell; 
Those Crazy Americans. First-run se- 


America’s Black Forum is 
the first and only news 
magazine of its kind on 
commercial television. A 
unique nationally syndi- 
cated news magazine that 
covers current issues from 


a Black perspective. And, it's the only 
news magazine hosted by Julian Bond, a 
former State Senator, a college professor 


and Civil Rights leader. 


Julian Bond That Is! 


ABF is the only news 
magazine whose eleven 
year history as an Emmy- 
Award winning news and 
interview program guar- 
antees a loyal, targeted 
audience base. 39 first run 


half-hour shows are immediately available. 
Talk to us at МАТРЕ., Booth 330. 
While you're here, say hello to Mr. Bond. 


Julian Bond that is! 


“ВЕ 


ИМЕРКЯ$ BACK FORUM 


Uniwarld Entertainment 


THE FUTURE IN TARGETED TELEVISION PROGRAMMING 


Contact Raymond Horn Syndication (212) 564 4144 
or Gene Davis, UniWorld Entertainment (212) 564 0066 


F.A. X. (212) 563 1320 


ries: The Black Coin; The Clutching 
Hand; Custer's Last Stand; Klds Say the 
Darndest Things; The Stan Kann Show. 
Off-network series: The Adventures of 
Jim Bowie; The Bill Dana Show; Canine 
Comments; Craig Kennedy, Criminolo- 
gist; Good Morning World; | Married 
Joan; Make Room for Daddy; My Little 
Margie; Rocky Jones, Space Ranger; 
Thrill of Your Life; Waterfront. Comedy 
shorts: The Chuckle Heads. Cartoons: 
Alice by Walt Disney; Krazy Kid Kar- 
tunes; Nursery Rhymes. 


Western Internatlonal Ѕупдіса- 
tlon 1500 


WesternWorld TV 300 
10528-45 Burbank Blvd., 

N. Hollywood, Calif. 91601 

Staff: Gary Worth; Julio Gonzalez- 
Reyes; Roger Feltman; Ruben Veloso. 
Programs: Skouras Pictures Package 
(20 titles); Action Package (22). Series: 
Adventures and Explorations; Hollywood 
insider; Orphans of the Wild; Nova; Risk- 
ing It All. Children: Children of the 
Stones; Fifteen; Pals; Sebastian and the 
Sparrow. Music: Kenny and Dolly in 
Concert; Pavarotti at Madison Square 
Garden; The Rock Show. Animation: 
Grimm's Fairy Tales; The Space Sagit- 
tarious; The Story of 15 Boys; Tom Saw- 
yer. Other: Crocodiles; Dead Wrong; 
Living Tomorrow; Ways of the Wild. 
Wold Communications 630 
3415 S. Sepulveda Blvd., 

#500, Los Angeles 90034 


World Events Productions Ltd. 1511 
4935 Lindell Blvd., St. Louis 63108 
Staff: Edward Koplar; Brian Lacey; Pe- 
ter Keefe; Mark Altschuler; Anita Kelso; 
Susan Bae; Glenda Gabriel; Carolyn 
Flynn. Programs: *Denver, the Last Di- 
nosaur; *Vytor, the Starfire Champion; 
Saber Rider and the Star Sheriffs; Vol- 
tron: Defender of the Universe. 


World Wrestling Federation 1535 

1055 Summer St., Stamford, 

Conn. 06905 

Staff: Joseph Perkins; Basil Devito; Mi- 

chael Ortman; Richard Maloney; William 

Datre; Rossane Eke; Joanne Flynn. 
Programs: WWF Superstars of Wres- 

tling; WWF Wrestling Challenge; WWF 

Wrestling Spotlight. 


DuPont details. PBS will air the 46th Alfred |, duPont-Columbia University Awards in 
broadcast journalism at 10 p.m. ET, Thursday, Jan. 26. The 90-minute broadcast will find 


Worldvision Enterprises 571 
660 Madison Ave., New York 10021 
Staff: John Ryan; Bert Cohen; Burt Ro- 
senburgh; Randy Hanson; Gary Mon- 
tanus; Tom Devlin; Bill Baffi; Jerry 
Kaufer; Rita Scarfone; Dan Willis; Adam 
Lloyd; Karen Davidson; Gerry Bixen- 
span; Andy Samet; Noreen McGrath; 
Alan Winnikoff; Philip Martzolf; Doreen 
Muldoon; Anna Mark; Gary Butterfield; 
Brian O'Sullivan; Jim Kauss; Jim Smith; 
Jim Thomson; Reggie Jester; Karl Mid- 
dieburg; Paul Danylik; Marty Weisman; 
Ed O'Brien; Harrington Silva; Sara In- 
dart; Bruce Swanson; Jules Haimovitz; 
Ronald Lighthouse; John Brady. 
Programs: First-run game show: 
Make Your Move. First-run late night 
variety: After Hours. Comedy: Starting 
from Scratch. Children: Smurfs’ Adven- 
tures; Hanna-Barbera's Superstars 10; 
The Yogi Bear Show; Snorks; Funtastic 
World of Hanna-Barbera; The Jetsons; 
Rambo; Centurions; Chuck Norris Kara- 
te Kommandos; Banana Splits; Atom 
Ant; Secret Squirrel; Adventures of Gulli- 
ver, Adventures of Huck Finn; Yogi's 
First Christmas; Birdman—Galaxy Trio; 
Sapce Ghost—Dino Boy; Fantastic Four; 
Frankenstein Jr. & Impossibles; Shaz- 
zam; Herculoids; Moby Dick/Mightor; 
Dastardly & Muttley; Amazing Chan & 
the Chan Clan; Funky Phantom; Perils of 
Penelope Pittstop; Wacky Races; Dis- 
covery; George of the Jungle; Harvey- 
/Casper; Jackson Five; Jerry Lewis; Jo- 
sie & the Pussycats Josie & the 
Pussycats in Outer Space; King Kong; 
Lancelot Link—Secret Chimp 
Live-action: Sword of Honour; Throb; 
Starring the Actors; Shark's Paradise; 
Return to Eden. Special: Yogi's First 
Christmas. Series: The Streets of San 
Francisco; The Love Boat Il; The Love 
Boat; Little House on the Prairie; Bar- 
naby Jones: Return to Eden; Breaking 
Point; Don Lane Show; That Girl; Doug- 
las Fairbanks Presents; Dark Shadows; 
The Doris Day Show; N.Y.P.D.; Ben Ca- 
sey; The Mod Squad; Combat; The Fugi- 
tive; The Rebel; Wendy and Me; Peo- 
ple's Choice; The Invaders; One Step 
Beyond; Flying "A" Series; Man from At- 
lantis; Buffalo Bill Jr.; Adventures of 
Champion; Come Along; Dickens & Fen- 
ster; High Road; It Pays to be Ignorant; 
Mickev Rooney; Next Step Beyond; On 


veteran CBS newsman and current Sunday Morning host Charles Kurall acting as 
master of ceremonies as the best work in television and radio news aired between July 1, 
1987, and June 30, 1988, is celebrated. The proadcast marks the 12th year of national 
coverage of the event by noncommercial WNET-TV New York. 

Presenters will include CBS News White House correspondent Jacqueline Adams, 
ABC News White House correspondent Sam Donaldson, NBC News Sunday anchor 
Garrick Utley, CNN vice president and New York anchor Mary Alice Williams and 
Columbia University President Michael Sovern. Established in 1942 by Jessie Ball 
duPont, the awards are designated in categories including radio, small market television, 
medium market television, major market television, network television and cable and 


independent productions. 


The Gold Baton Award will be given for the fourth year to the program that "contributed 
the most to the public's understanding of important issues or news events." Jurors 
include Columbia Graduate School of Journalism Dean Joan Konner (who will comment 
on the broadcast year), former ABC News President Elmer Lower, The Washingtonian 


senior writer Barbara Matusow and The Washington Post TV critic Tom Shales. 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
84 


the Mat; Range Rider; Starring the Ac- 
tors; Take My Word For It; Wendy and 
Me; Wonders of the Wild. 

Features: Prime I-VIII; Saturday at the 
Movies. Specials: Shark's Paradise; A 
Christmas Carol; Amahl & the Night Visi- 
tors; Bay City Rollers; Children of the 
Gael; Echo |; Herbie Mann/Roland Kirk; 
Fabulous Sixties; Irish Rovers Special; Is 
it Christ?; Jack Nicklaus at Home of 
Golf; Last Nazi; Musical Ambassadors; 
New Fangles Wandering Minstrel Show; 
The Night the Animais Talked; Raphael; 
Roberta Flack/Donny Hathaway; Ron 
Luciano's Lighter Side of Sports; Rus- 
sian Festival of Music & Dance; Sun- 
shine Specials; A Little Bit of Irish; World 
of Miss World; The Bobby Vinton Show; 
An Evening with irish Television. Mini- 
series: Against the Wind; Holocaust; Re- 
turn to Eden. 

International: tronweed; The Running 
Man; Light of Day; Monster Squad; Inter- 
nal Affairs; Stones for Ibarra; Stranger on 
My Land; Starting from Scratch; Streets 
of San Francisco; A.F.I. Life Achieve- 
ment Award/Jack Lemmon; Home Fires; 
Hanna-Barbera's Superstars 10; Gener- 
al Hospital; One Life to Live; All My Chil- 
dren; Hands of a Stranger; Highway to 
Heaven; Dallas; Angel in Green; Kids 
Like These; Little Troll Prince; А Mouse, 
a Mystery and Me; Unholy Matrimony; 
The Last Frontier; The Stepford Children; 
The Day They Came to Arrest the Book; 
Stone Fox; Shark's Paradise; When the 
Bough Breaks; Night of Courage; 
Stranger in My Bed; The High Price of 
Passion; Sable; Throb; You Again?; The 
Love Boat; On Wings of Eagles; Double- 
take; Key to Rebecca; Sam's Son; А 
Deadly Business; My Two Loves; Wel- 
come Home Bobby; Smurfs; The Jet- 
sons; Wildfire; Berenstain Bears; The 
Flintstones 25th Anniversary; The 13 
Ghosts of Scooby Doo; Mr. T; The Flint- 
stone Kids; Alvin & the Chipmunks; Yo- 
gi's Treasure Hunt; Sky Commanders; 
Snorks; Roboforce; Remember Ме; Little 
House on the Prairie: Three Special Pre- 
sentations; An Act of Love: The Patricia 
Neal Story. 

Holiday specials. Feature films: Par- 
agon Features; Prestige Features; Selz- 
nick Classics; ABC Pictures. Children’s 
programing. Series: Return to Eden; Lu- 
cie Arnaz Show; Starring the Actors; Lit- 
tle House on the Prairie; Eight Is 
Enough; Kaz; Project UFO; The Andros 
Targets; Spencer's Pilots; Man from At- 
lantis; Married: The First Year; Pruitts of 
Southampton; The Doris Day Show; 
Hunter; Mod Squad; The Invaders; The 
Fugltive; The Next Step Beyond; Thun- 
der; Garrison's Gorillas; Cowboy in Afri- 
ca; Ben Casey; That Girl. 


Yorkshire Television 939 
$2 Bedford Row, London 
WCIRSHE, England 


ZDF 1211 


Zenith Productions Ltd. 939 
8 Great Titchfield St., London 
W1P7AA, England 


ZGS Television Production 
1726 М St., N.W., #704, 
Washington 20036 


Metropolitan Broadcasting Holding Company 
which through its subsidiaries owns 


WNEW-AM/FM 


(New York, NY) 


KTWV-FM 


(Los Angeles, CA) 


WMMR-FM 


(Philadelphia, PA) 


KRLD-AM 


(Dallas, TX) 


Texas State Networks 


has been acquired by 


Sillerman Acquisition Corp. 


The undersigned acted as financial advisor to 
Metropolitan Broadcasting Holding Company in this transaction. 


MORGAN STANLEY & CO. 


Incorporated 
December 16, 1988 


АОН drops т fall Arbitron books 


Compared to results during the same quar- 
ter last year, AOR formatted stations in the 
top 10 markets for the most part witnessed a 
drop in share during the fall 1988 Arbitron 
ratings (for markets one to five, see BROAD- 
CASTING, Jan. 9). АП results below are 
based on the Arbitron fall 1988 radio local 
market report for the period Sept. 22-Dec. 
14, 1988 (total persons, age 12-plus, aver- 
age quarter-hour shares, Monday-Sunday, 
6 a.m.-midnight). Ratings data used is sup- 
plied by Arbitron and is copyrighted; it may 
not be reprinted or used in any form by 
nonsubscribers to the company's radio rat- 
ings service. 

Detroit (sixth market), MOR/newstalk 
WJR(AM) and urban contemporary WJLB(FM) 
maintained their respective number-one and 
number-two slots. In the contemporary hit 
category, WDFX(FM) jumped up the list with 
its 5.4 share (compared to a 3.1 share dur- 
ing summer 1988 and a 2.4 during fall 
1987). Another contemporary hit station, 
WHYT(FM), dropped from a 5.3 during sum- 
mer 1988 to its current 3.4, although the 
station did top its fall 1987 4.7 share. Also 
dropping was easy listening МЈОҚЕМ), 


CALL MRN FOR 
RADIO’S BEST 
KEPT SECRET! 


CALL COLLECT 
(904) 254-6760 
TURN SUNDAY 
INTO MONEY 
DAY WITH NASCAR 


лм 


R- A- D. | 


Р.О. BOX DRAWER. $ DAYTONA BEACH. FLORIDA 32015 


which fell from 5.1 in the summer 1988 
book to a 4.7. AOR WRIF(FM) climbed back 
into the top 10 with a 3.6, up from 3.0 
during summer 1988, but dropped from 3.9 
for fall 1987. 

Boston's adult contemporary WBZ(AM) 
entered the top position with a 7.4, up from 
6.4 during summer 1988 and 7.3 during fall 
1987. Contemporary hit WXKS-FM dropped 
from a first place tie with WRKO(AM) in the 
summer 1988 book (each with 7.1) to its 
current third-place 5.9 share. Contempo- 
rary hit WZOU(FM) also took a drop, falling 
from a 6.1 in the summer 1988 book to its 
current 5.0. 

Adult contemporary KVIL-AM-FM held the 
number-one position in the Dallas-Fort 
Worth market, jumping from a 6.9 share 
during summer 1988 to its current 8.3. Ur- 
ban contemporary KKDA-FM, which placed 
number one in the summer 1988 book with 
the added strength of its simulcast co- 
owned AM, dropped to the number-three 
position on its own. Country formats made 
a strong showing in the fall 1988 book, 
with KSCS(FM), KPLX(FM) and WBAP(AM) tak- 
ing three of the top five positions. 

One of the AOR stations taking a drop in 
the Washington market was WWDC-FM, 


dropping from a 5.7 share in the summer 
1988 book and a 5.6 share in the fall 1987 
book to its current 4.2. Although contem- 
porary hit WPGC-FM lost the added strength 
it held as an AM-FM simulcast in the sum- 
mer 1988 book, the station came in fourth 
place with a 6.0. Contemporary hit WAVA 
(FM) didn't fare as well, dropping from a 
5.2 in summer 1988 to 4.5. Making its way 
into the top 10 was adult contemporary 
WLTT(FM), up from a 3.0 last summer to its 
current 3.5 share. 

In Houston-Galveston, urban contempo- 
rary KMJQ(FM) came in strong at number 
one with a 9.8 share, up from a 9.3 during 
summer 1988. Country KIKK-FM took a kick 
down the list from the number-two spot in 
the summer 1988 book (with a 7.0 share) 
and from an 8.3 share for the same period 
last year. Another country station dropping 
in the market was KILT-FM, down from a 
5.9 during fall 1987 and a 6.2 during sum- 
mer 1988 to its current 4.6 share. Easy 
listening KODA(FM) made a healthy climb up 
the list from a 4.9 during summer 1988 and 
a 5.7 during fall 1987 to its present 6.1 
share. News/talk station KPRC(AM) also 
moved up, from a 3.3 during summer 1988 
and a 3.1 during fall 1987 to its current 4.0. 


Station Format Fall 87 Fall 88 
Detroit 

WJR(AM) MOR/news/talk 10.8 9.0 
WJLB(FM) urban contemp. 8.6 7.0 
WDFX(FM)* Contemp. hit 2.4 54 
WWJ(AM) news 49 5.1 
WNIC-FM adult contemp. 4.1 49 
WJOI(FM) easy listening 6.2 4.7 
WWWW(FM) country 4.1 47 
WCZY-FM contemp. hit 4.3 4.4 
WOMC(FM) adult contemp. 4.0 4.4 
WLLZ(FM) AOR 45 38 
WRIF(FM) AOR 3.9 3.6 
WCSX(FM) Classic rock 37 34 
WHYT(FM) contemp. hit 4.7 34 
WKSG(FM) oldies 2.3 3.4 
Formerly WOTX 

Boston 

WBZ(AM) adult contemp. 73 74 
WRKO(AM) talk 6.9 7.2 
WXKS-FM contemp. hit 7.0 5.9 
WJIB(FM) easy listening 5.7 5.4 
WHDH(AM) adult contemp. 5.2 5.2 
WODS(FM) oldies 2.9 52 
WZOU(FM) contemp. hit 5.2 5.0 
WBCN(FM) AOR 7.4 4.8 
WZLX(FM) classic hits 44 4.8 
WEEI(AM) news 52 42 
WMJX(FM) adult contemp. 29 3.6 
WSSH-FM soft contemp. 44 36 
WROR(FM) adult contemp. 3.2 3.2 
Dallas-Ft. Worth 

KVIL-AM-FM adult contemp. 9.3 8.3 


Station Format Fall 87 Fall 88 ] 
KSCS(FM) Country 4.1 7.4 
KKDA-FM urban contemp. 8.6 7.2 
KPLX(FM) Country 7.4 6.5 
WBAP(AM) Country 53 62 
KRLD(AM) news 6.6 5.9 
KHYI(FM) contemp. hit 4.9 5.0 
KMEZ-AM-FM easy listening 6.0 4.8 
KEGL(FM) Contemp. hit 62 45 
KLUV(FM) oldies 3.6 3.4 
KTXQ(FM) AOR 3.7 3.4 
Washington 

WMZQ-AM-FM country 7.3 7.1 
WGAY-FM easy listening 7.4 6.8 
WKYS(FM) urban contemp. 6.5 62 
WPGC-FM Contemp. hit 49 6.0 
WMAL(AM) variety 65 57 
WHUR-FM urban contemp. 5.0 4.9 
WAVA(FM) contemp. hit 4.5 4.5 
WROX(FM) contemp. hit 4.3 4.5 
WWDC-FM AOR 56 42 
WCXR-FM adult contemp. 4.0 37 
WTOP(AM) new 4.7 3.7 
WLTT(FM) adult contemp. 3.4 3.5 
Houston-Galveston 

KMJQ(FM) urban contemp. 7.8 9.8 
KKBQ-AM-FM contemp. hit 6,5 7.5 
KIKK-FM country 8.3 6.8 
KODA(FM) easy listening 5.7 61 
KRBE-FM Contemp. hit 64 6.0 
KTRH(AM) news 49 57 
KLOL(FM) AOR 62 52 
KILT-FM country 5.9 4.6 
KFMK(FM) adult сощетр. — 4.9 4.3 
KPRC(AM) newslalk 3.1 40 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
86 


Go For A Little One-On-One 


To win the radio ratings game you have to adopt an aggressive strategy. Talkline, America’s 
Only all-live talk radio network, is a unique and interesting approach designed to give your station 
о competitive edge. 

As a Talkline affiliate, you receive FREE all-live, two-way talk show programming 24 hours 
о day. Featuring fascinating discussions оп pressing issues. Fast-breaking news from around the 
world. Valuable business and consumer advice. Action-packed sports talk. And much more. 

We've assembled an all-star lineup of the nation’s top-rated talk 
show hosts to provide fast-paced programming that will have your listeners Talk ne 
on the edge of their seats. And on their phones. 


Dial 606-781-TALK for more information on how Talkline Radio RADIO NETWORK ҮЙ Т 


Network can help you score big points in the ratings! Radio that has everyone talking! 
©1989, ле Rodio Кемек = 105 West Fourth Street, Suite 1111/Cincinnati, Ohio 45202/ Telephone 606-781-8255 


Wasbington, D.C 


^ Initial 
advertiser 
support 


RAVE 


REVIEWS!" 


After two weeks on the air with Business Radio 
Network, WPGC added seven charter advertisers. 
The New York Times, Egghead Software, Donelly 
Directories, Eastern Airlines, JC Penney, The 
Bank of Baltimore, and the U.S. Postal Service. 


It's great news. But not surprising. BRN is radio's 
business solution. We deliver hard-hitting business 


news and talk. 24 hours a day. 


Our affiliates are finding dozens of ways to sell 
the format to advertisers seeking the lucrative 


market of business decision makers. 


Billboard Magazine said it this way: “Among the 
full-time (all-business) services, Business Radio 
Network has the most momentum.” To us, 
“momentum” means dollars and cents for the 
managers of our rapidly growing network of 


affiliates. 
The bottom line? 


Business Radio Network delivers results. 
Call us to get the facts: 


1 (800) 321-2349 


Listen Line: 


1(719) 528-7 046 


Broadçasting Jan 16 1989 
88 


Business Radio Network 


New life for 
old jingles 


Famous 1960’s production house, 
PAMS, finds new life on oldies stations 


PAMS, one of the leading jingie companies 
in the 1960’ $, appears to have left its legal 
wranglings behind and is ready to capitalize 
on the nation's proliferation of oldies radio 
stations. In an effort to repopularize the 
jingle sound that was synonymous with 
such top-40 powerhouses as WABC(AM) 
New York, the company's latest catalog 
includes new jingles by the original PAMS 
singers. 

The regeneration of the jingles company, 
which was founded in 1951, follows а long 
trail of bumps in the road: shortly after its 
sale to Consolidated Communications 
Counselor of Omaha in 1977, PAMS was 
the target of bankruptcy proceedings that 
eventually led to an IRS auction of its leg- 
endary jingle collection. Ken Deutsch and 
Ben Freedman obtained the PAMS tapes 
and trademark, and throughout the 1980's 
sold original and recreated jingles to sta- 
tions from offices in Buffalo, N.Y. But 
while Deutsch and Freedman became legal 
owners of the company, others challenged 
their ownership. Last year, after several 
years of such challenges, Deutsch and 
Freedman settled out of court with PAMS 
founder Bill Meeks and established the 
company’s present structure. 

Freedman now maintains Dallas offices 
for PAMS's parent company, CPMG Inc., 
at the Century 21 jingle company, where he 
became vice president of sales in August 
1988. As president of CPMG, he sells the 
new PAMS jingles from three separate pro- 
duction sources: CPMG Inc., which fea- 
tures new singers; Ken Deutsch's Ohio- 
based Ken R. Inc,, which also features new 
singers, and Garland, Tex.-based Richard 
Kaufman, a self-confessed PAMS fanatic 
who has just reassembled the original 
PAMS singers. 

"Now, anybody can buy [PAMS jingles] 
with complete confidence," said Kaufman, 
referring to industry confusion that had 
been created after years of battle over the 
PAMS name. Kaufman, whose radio back- 
ground as an announcer, program director 
and station owner dates back to 1968, has 
consulted with Meeks to recreate the origi- 
nal sound of the jingles. He is also offering 
consultancy services to oldies stations. 

Kaufman said he will be producing 30 
new jingle cuts for overseas distribution and 
1$ close to signing a deal with an unnamed 
major metropolitan oldies Station. PAMS 
Jingles featuring new singers, said Freed- 
man, have been sold to outlets including 
oldies stations WIOQ(FM) Philadelphia and 
WDRC-FM Hartford, Conn. 

Ken Deutsch, an avid jingle collector 
who sells copies of PAMS tapes to other 
collectors, admitted that he has been pleas- 
antly surprised by the resurgence of the 
company. “When I , bought these tracks 
originally," he said, ''I didn't think I'd S 
able to do anything with them,’ 


Watch Your Май for 
the Bright Yellow Package 
M ALVINT RED М SPD CAL" ME MALANE with Complete Rules & Details! 
JUST OPEN THIS PACKAGE 
FOR YOUR CHANCE TO WIN! 


NOCIMASTTE- 
ADDRESS CORRECTION 24 TD 


Nothing To Buyi • Win Valuable Prizes! 
NO GAMES • NO GIMMICKS • NO STRINGS 


Robert К Smith 

WIN ÓNE OF 5 VIDEO CASSETTE RECORDERS оак 
OR ONE ОҒ 50 CROSS РЕМ & PENCIL SETS es aii — 
Smithtown IL 00021 


ATTENTION: RADIO GENERAL MANAGERS 


atch your mail for 
this envelope. 

— — You may be an 
Instant Winner. 


Just Open The Envelope for Your Chance to Win! 


А Trusted Name in the 
Broadcast Industry Юг Over 20 Years 
800 527-7759 


Customized Now 
Aduk Contemporary Satellite Service 
800 387-2811 • 612 378-1254 Texas 214 634-8511 


The NO-CONTEST CONTEST Is sponsored by these companies and Dale Tucker Broadcast Services ©1989 


Audio guides 


Radio Guide, the bi-weekly Los Angeles 
radio program guide now in its fifth issue, 
has its sights set on launching similar 
publications in New York and Chicago 
within a year. While these are not the 

first efforts to create a consumer market 
guide for radio listeners, they are 
certainly among the more ambitious. 

Radio Guide, a full-color guide 
complete with station personality interviews 
and program listings, is currently offered 
free to its 50,000 readers (the publication 
hopes to begin charging $1.25 per 
issue begining in March). Advertisers pay 
$1,150 for a full page black-and-white 
advertisement; $1,800 for color. Editorial 
Director Tommi Lewis said early 
advertising by radio stations in the guide 
has been primarily in exchange for 
promotional on-air spots. Most advertising 
inthe guide, she said, tends to be from 
local program producers at area stations. 

While the original plan for Radio 
Guide was to eventually develop into a TV 
Guide-type publication for radio, Lewis 
said parent publishing company Radio 
Waves Publications now realizes that 
the local nature of radio calls for more 
market-specific guides. À national radio 
guide, she said, may prove more feasible 
as syndicated programing continues to 
grow in popularity. Present plans for the 
company call for the opening of a New 
York office within three months to launch 
separate issues there and ancther office 
in Chicago within a year. 

Those plans spell competition for 
Chicagoland Radio Waves, a Chicago 
quarterly radio guide launched a year- 
and-a-half ago by MediaTies, another 
publishing firm. That guide is scheduled 
to this week release its winter 1988-89 
issue, a 24-page two-color guide with a 
free distribution of 85,000. The consumer 
guide includes a listing of 120 Chicago 
area radio stations, along with features, 
photos, and briefings about the stations. 

About half the advertising in the 
current issue of Chicagoland Radio Waves 
comes from retailers and the other half 
from radio stations, said publisher S.J. 
Peters, who has spent the last six years 
as a publicist at several area radio and 
television stations. А one-inch 
advertisement in the guide costs $350; a 
full-page ad costs $1,550. Among the 
full-page advertisers has been WGN(AM) 
Chicago. 

Peters said expansion plans for 
MediaTies could include guides for the 
markets of Tampa-St. Petersburg- 
Clearwater, Fla.; Minneapolis-St. Paul, and 
Milwaukee-Racine. Other potential 
markets for Radio Guide, according to 
Lewis, include San Diego, San 
Francisco and Tucson, Ariz. 


New music licensing head 


The All-industry Radio Music License 
Committee has elected Group W Radio 
President Dick Harris as its new 

chairman, a position formerly held by 
Berkshire Broadcasting President 

Donald Thurston. Harris, who spent the last 
year assisting the committee as 


Harrls 
chairman of the NAB's Radio Music 
Licensing Task Force, said that the NAB 
task force will disband, pending board 
approval at the NAB's January meeting. 

In addition to the appointment of Harris, five 
new board members have been named 

to the committee: Arthur Carlson, senior 
vice president, Susquehanna Broadcast 
Co.; John Dilte Ш, president, Federated 
Media; Robert Fox, chairman, KvEN(AM) 
Ventura, Calif.; David Hicks, president, 
Hicks Broadcast Corp., and Jerry 

Lyman, president, RKO Radio. 

Among the committee's immediate 
goals are plans to establish research and 
funding committees to prepare for 
license renewal negotiations with the 
American Society of Composers, 

Authors and Publishers (due in 1990) and 
Broadcast Music Inc. (1991). As things 
stand, said Harris, ASCAP and BMI appear 
to have better financial data on stations 
than the radio industry itself. Harris added 
that the committee’s $300,000 debt to 

the New York law firm of Weil, Gotschal & 
Manges (BROADCASTING, Feb. 1, 1988) 

has been resolved. "For all practical 
purposes, we're all settled up," he said. 


‘Master’ works 


Radio Ventures Inc. is offering Masters 

of Rock, a monthly series for AOR and 
classic rock stations produced by 

Capital Radio of London. The first one-hour 
special, scheduled to air today (Jan. 16) 
through Jan. 31, highlights Dire Straits. 
Featured bands in upcoming months 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
90 


[ena] 


include Fleetwood Mac, Pink Floyd, The 
Who and Jethro Tull. About 80% of each 
show features the band’s music, while the 
remaining 20% is devoted to interviews 
with the musicians. The bartered series is 
available on a market-exclusive basis 

ма LP disk from the Floral Park, N.¥.-based 
company. LBS Communications is 
handling national sales. London's Capital 
Radio, a commercial station with a 
contemporary hits format, began in 1973. 


Give 'em five 


CBS-owned kNx(AM) Los Angeles and 

the University of Southern California have 
signed a five-year contract, effective 
Sept. 1990, for the station's continued 
coverage of the university's football and 
basketball games. The station is 
celebrating its 10th straight year of USC 
sports coverage, and has broadcast USC 
games for 22 of the past 28 years. 


Remembering 


Coinciding with the birthday of Dr. 

Martin Luther King Jr., New York-based 
Narwood Productions is today (Jan. 16) 
launching a series of public service 
announcements honoring the slain civil 
rights leader. The 30- and 60-second 
spots, which are available for broadcast 
throughout this month, feature celebrities 
Ruby Dee, Ossie Davis, Melba Moore, 
Felix Cavaliere and others. Narwood, which 
produced and distributed the PSAs to 

all radio stations in New York State, said 
they are available at no charge to 
stations nationally. 


Simulcast 


The Mike Scinto Show, a four-hour daily 
talk show heard on wHio(aw) Dayton, Ohio, 
has begun simulcasting a daily half-hour 
segment of its program on local television 
station wHIO-Tv. The simulcast, which 

had a three-week trial run in September 
1988 before its regular launch this 

month, originates live from the wHIO radio 
studio. 


Bowl lineup 


CBS Radio Sports will begin its 

exclusive live coverage of the Jan. 22 
Super Bowl game from Miami at 4:45 

p.m. ET. Primary announcers will include ' 
the veteran team of Jack Buck (play-by- 
play) and Hank Stram (analysis), along with 
a pre-game and half-time show by Brent 
Musburger and Will McDonough. CBS said 
it broadcast regular and post-season 
games between 1978 and 1985 and is 
currently in a three-year contract that 

runs through February 1990. The network 
also boasts a Super Bowl history that 
includes alternate year broadcasts 
between 1966 and 1978. 


: WOMEN WHO SOUGHT EMPLOYMENT WITH THE VOICE OF AMERICA (VOA), THE UNITED 
STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (USIA), OR THE UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATION 
AGENCY (USICA) BETWEEN OCTOBER 8, 1974 AND NOVEMBER 16, 1984. 


YOU MAY BE A VICTIM OF SEX DISCRIMINATION 
ENTITLED TO A MONETARY AWARD AND А POSITION WITH THE AGENCY. 


UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 


CAROLEE BRADY HARTMAN, et al., 


Plaintiffs, Civil Action No. 77-2019 
ГА Judge Charles В. Richey 


CHARLES Z. WICK, | 
Defendant | 


PUBLIC NOTICE 


On November 16, 1984, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia found in this class action lawsuit that the United States Information Agency (USIA 
нь including the Voice of America (МОА), is liable for sex discrimination against female applicants for the following positions at the Agency. The USIA was 
also United States Intemational Communication Agency (USICA). On January 19, 1988, the Court issued its opinion ordéring relief in a variety 
Кот to yo dass members. Accordingly, this case is now in the cred phase. 


JOBS COVERED 


Specifically, the Court has found that the Agency has discriminated against women in hiring in the following jobs: 


+Electronic Technician (Occupational Series 856) 

-Foreign Language Broadcaster (Occupational Series 1048) 

«international Radio Broadcaster (Other) (Occupational Series 1001) 

“Intemational Radio Broadcaster (English) (Occupational Series 1001) 

-Production Specialist (Occupational Series 1071) 

“Writer/Editor (Occupational Series 1082) 

*Foreign information SpecialisvF oreign Affalrs Specialia Foreign Service Information Officer/Foreign Service Officer (Occupational Series 1085 and 130) 
*Radio Broadcast Technician (Occupational Series 3940) 


WHO IS INCLUDED 


All women who sought errploymant with the Agency in any of the Jobs listed above between October 8, 1974 and November 16, 1984 and were not hired may be aligble for relief. Also Included 
are those women who were discouraged irom applying for these positions during that time period. Even those women subsequently hired by the Agency in some capacity may be entitled to parr 
ticipate In the remedial phase of this саве. 


Women who sought employment with the Agency as Foreign Service Officers or Foreign Service Information Officers may be eligible for different kinds of relief depending upon the date of ap- 
plication and whether they sought empioyrnent at the entry level or mid-level. Women who sought employment with the Agency as entry level Foreign Service Officers or Foreign Service 
Information Officers in the years 1974-1977 must use thé procedure outlined below. Women who sought employment with the Agency as mid-level Foreign Service Officers or Foreign Service 
Information Officers in the years 1974-1984 must also иво the procedure outlined below. However, women who sought empioyment with the Agency as entry level Foreign Service Officers or 
Foreign Service Information Officers In the years 1978-1984 cannot use the procedure outlined below, since the Court has ordered an alternative form of relief for thern and selected women ih 
this group wil be notified Individually as to their rights. 


RELIEF AVAILABLE AND HOW TO OBTAIN IT 


Relief available to clase members may include а monetary award and/or priority consideration lor a current position with the Agency. If you think you may be entitled to relief, you must obtain 
а claimtorm, complete К fully, and return to counsel forthe plaintiff dass, Bruce А. Fredrickson, Esq., Webster & Fredrickson, 1819 Н Street, N.W., Suite 300, Washington, О.С, 20006 (202/ 
859-8515), postmarked no later than July 15, 1989. 


You may obtain a daim form in person and/or in writing from several sources: counsel forthe plaintiff class, whose address ів listed above; in person fremUSIA, Front Lobby. 301-4th Street, S.W.. 
Washington, D.C. (8:15am -5:00prn), Office of Personnel Management (OPM), Federal Job Intormation Center. (First Floor, Roorn 1425), 1900 E Street, N,W., Washington, О.С. (B30am- 
2:30pm}, or from area OPM offices throughout the country; in writing, VOA-Hartman, P.O. Box 400, Washington, D.C. 20044. You should carefully consider all questions onthe claim form, sign 
k, and retum it to. counsel for the plaintiffs. Do nat, under any сипаре retum the claim formto the Judge. the Court or the Clerk of the Court. The Judge, the Court and the Clerk of the 
Court will not acceptthe claim forme and will not forward claim forme to plaintiffs' counsel. 


PROCESSING OF CLAIMS 


The process for handling claims has not been finally decided. Thus lar, the Court has ordered that responding class members demonstrate their potential entitlement to relief at an Individual 
hearing to be scheduled al a later date, However, the Court has reserved the right to reconsider this procedure In the event the number of claims fed makes this approach unmanageable. 


Should individual hearings be used, you will be fully informed as to the date and time of your hearing. Moreover, you will be entitled to legal representation by counsel for the plaintiff class or his 
designee at no cost to you. Legai counsel will discuss your claim with you prior to your hearing. help you prepare your саве and represert you at your hearing. You may, of course, retain your 
own attorney 10 represent you, Ё you so desire. 


At the Individual hearing. you will be asked to demonstrate your potential entitiement to reliel by showing that you applied for one or more of the covered positions during the period October B. 
1974 and November 16, 1984 and Ihat you were rejected, or that you were discouraged from applying. Evidence may be required in the form of testimony, documents. or both. Once you have 
demonstrated these facts, USIA is required to prove, by clear and convincing evidence, thal you were not hired (for each position for which you applied) for a legitimate. non-discriminatory rea- 
son, auch as failure to possess requisite qualifications. Should USIA make such a showing, you would then be entitled to demonstrate that the Agency's reason ів merely a cover for sex discrimi- 
nation or unworthy of belial. 


Following the hearing. the Presiding Official will decide whether you are entitled torellef and, й 50, what relief is appropriate. You may be entitled to wages and benefits you would have earned 
V you had been hired (back pay) tromthe date of your rejection until the date relief lë approved. Under the law, back pay is offset by earings you may have had during the period. In addition, 
you May be found to be entitied to front pay (that is, compensation Into the future until an appropriate position i$ afforded you), Similarly, you may be found to be entitled to priority consideration 
for employment with the Agency. If hired, you may further be entitled to retroactive seniority with the associated benellts and the value of any promotions you would likely have had I you had 
not suffered discrimination. 


REQUIRED STEPS TO FILE YOUR CLAIM 


To participate in the remedial phase, inum ulhs ore Ты per lar алеі ratum К, POSTMARKED NO LATER THAN July 15, 1989, to counsel for the plaintiif class. Your fallure to 
do $0 will result in your losing all rights you may n this lawsuit. ¥ you have questions about your rights or procedures available to you, you may contact counsel for the plaintiff class: 


Bruce A. Fredrickson 
Webster & Frodrickson 

1819 Н Street, N.W.. Suite 300 
Washington, D.C. 20006 
(202/659-8515) 


October 4, 1988 /s/ Judge Charles R. Richey 


Date United States District Court 
Judge Charles Н. Richey 


Sales better than expected at INTV 


A number of syndicators are 
surprised by volume of business 
done at L.A. convention 


The pace of program sales at the Associa- 
tion of Independent Television Stations two 
weeks ago took some suppliers by surprise. 
Early projections were that sales would be 
sluggish to moderate, and that was the case 
for some. but others reported sales exceed- 
ing their expectations. 

At MCA TV Enterprises, President 
Shelly Schwab reported: ‘‘It was the most 
positive meeting we ever had at INTV in 
terms of selling. It’s a little surprising," he 
added, because *‘INTV has not always been 
a platform to move а lot of product.” 

Schwab reported the company made 94 
rénewal deals, and announced that the first- 
run Charles in Charge would remain in pro- 
duction for a fourth year—through January 
of 1990—for a total of at least 126 epi- 
sodes. He added that three other current 
first-run comedies, The Munsters Today, 
My Secret Identity and Out of this World, 
have also received enough renewals “to 
almost assure’’ they will be renewed for 
another year. Also, The Morton Downey Jr. 
Show will be renewed though 1989. 
Schwab said. 

As to new product, MCA has two new 
first-run programs, tailored primarily for 
independents, that also made clearance 
gains at INTV. The weekly Lassie, a co- 
venture with Palladium Entertainment, has 
cleared 67% of the country and will debut 
next fall. Pictionary, slated for launch this 
summer, has cleared more than 50% of the 
country, Schwab reported. Two other new 
strips from MCA, $Reward$ and Star- 
*Play, are targeted more toward affiliates, 
and will be the company’s focus leading 
into the NATPE International convention in 
Houston, Jan. 24-27. 

Fox Syndication reported doing in excess 
of $14 million in new business at INTV, 
based mostly on product from two new 
strips available for fall 1989—Mr. Belve- 
dere and Small Wonder—and movie pack- 
ages. ‘‘We wrote a lot of business,’ said 
Michael Lambert, president, Fox Domestic 
Television Syndication. ‘‘The tide kind of 
turned," he said. “We didn't expect to 
write that much." 

Lambert cited several factors, including 
pressure on stations to put their fall pro- 
graming in place. Two other (actors related 
Specifically to the programs Fox was offer- 
ing, he said. On АВС, Mr. Belvedere is 
delivering record ratings on Friday at 9 
p.m. and is leading its time period. And 
Small Wonder, in a test as a strip in Los 
Angeles on KTTV(TV), brought its time peri- 
od up from sixth to third in the November 
book, beating KCBS-Tv's newscasts and the 
independents in the time period. Belvedere 


я 


MCA's Morton Downey 


Columbia's Silverado 
is now in 90 markets and Small Wonder is 
in 60. 

Paliadium Entertainment also came out 
of INTV with a crucial group clearance 
from the Fox stations for its first-run ver- 
sion of the game show Jackpot. reported 
Brian Firestone, the company's executive 
vice president. That deal with Fox includes 
all seven of the group's stations, including 
the top three markets, and assures that the 
program will be launched next fall. said 
Firestone. The show has also been cleared 
by КМОМ(ТУ) St. Louis and WVIT(TV) Hart- 
ford, Conn., giving it coverage across more 
than 25% of the country to date. 

Firestone said Palladium is positioning 
the game show as one that has the potential 
to knock off Wheel of Fortune as the top 
game show in syndication. He noted that 
historically, in syndication, game shows 
that have come on to take the medium by 
storm have had a previous network track 
record (NBC in the mid-1970's with Jack- 
pot, for example), have kept their original 
formula and have the same producer (Bob 
Stewart for Jackpot). The Jackpot original 
host, Jeff Edwards, will reprise his role. 

Wheel is still the number-one show in 
syndication but has experienced substantial 
ratings erosion, particularly in key demo- 
graphics. **We're a proven quantity,” Fire- 
stone said of Jackpot, just as Wheel was 
when it came on the syndication scene in 
1983 to knock off Family Feud. 

Palladium had planned to bring two game 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
92 


Fox's Small Wonder 
shows to syndication for next fall, the other 
being /.Q., but decided the market was too 
crowded. /.Q. remains a potential project 
for 1990. 

Other INTV program news: 

Æ Columbia Pictures Television launched 
a new tWo-year cycle of its barter movie 
package, Columbia Night at the Movies, 
which begins in February with the film 
"Silverado" (the exhibit window is Feb. 2- 
March 8). The package has been carried by 
more than 130 stations covering more than 
90% of the country. Barry Thurston, presi- 
dent, syndication, CPT, said the barter film 
package has averaged a 10.1 rating over its 
five-year life, the best ratings average of 
any barter film package. 

B Paramount reported that coming out of 
INTV it has renewed War of the Worlds for 
a second season and Friday the 13th for a 
third season, with both shows renewed in 
45% of the country. Additionally, the new 
Joan Rivers Show has cleared 53% of the 
country, while Tabloid has cleared 54% of 
the country. 


B Fries Entertainment reported that it has 
cleared a one-hour special version of a 
planned new series, /nterceptor, in markets 
covering more than 50% of the country. 
The special is scheduled for early April and 
has bcen cleared mostly in weekend prime 
time by stations including wPIX-TV New 
York, KTLA(Tv) Los Angeles and WGN-TV 
Chicago. 

m Samuel Goldwyn Co. has cleared a 


new package of films under the November 
Gold II umbrella in 55 markets, according 
to Dick Askin, president of the company's 
television distribution arm. Askin also said 
Goldwyn had deals or ‘‘offers’’ for the new 
first-run weekly program American Gladia- 
tors in 17 of the top 20 markets. He said the 
company would be announcing specific 
clearances for the show soon. О 


NBC to test 

10 p.m. comedy 
waters, says 
Tartikoff 


Tells press tour audience of plans 
to run six half-hour comedies 
back to back on one night 


NBC Entertainment President Brandon Tar- 
ukoff announced at last week's press tour in 
Los Angeles that NBC would run, as a one- 
time experiment, a full night of the net- 
work's most popular comedy series in 
prime time, Monday, Feb. 6th. [n order, 
the programs that will run that night: The 
Cosby Show, ALF, The Golden Girls, Emp- 
ty Nest, Cheers and Night Court. 

Part of the reason for the experiment, 
said Tartikoff, is to get a reading on how 
receptive viewers are to sitcoms between 10 
p.m. and 11 p.m., tradionally the domain 
of hour-long dramas or the last hour of 
long-form programs. ''Comedy develop- 
ment for next season on NBC is going to be 
very rich," he said, so there 1$ concern 
about having enough room on the schedule 
for new and returning comedies. 

Among the comedies in development for 
next season is a new project from Cosby 
producer Carsey-Werner Productions and 
Bill Cosby (targeted for 9 p.m.) that Tarti- 
koff said would be unconventional in that it 
will contain some elements of serialization 
and will not be set in just one venue, as are 
most domestic or workplace comedies. 

Other comedy projects in development 
for next season include series from UBU 
Productions (Family Ties); Rheinhold 
Weege (Night Court) and Patchett-Kauf- 
man Entertainment (Tom Patchett devel- 
oped ALF and Buffalo Bill). Talent deals 
for other comedies have been signed with 
Jared Rushton (‘‘Big’’); comedian Louie 
Anderson, in a deal with NBC Productions, 
which has another comedy in the works 
with Ann Jillian and Barbara Eden; Jerry 
Steinfeld (in a show that would mix come- 
dy and variety), and Broadway and motion 
picture actress Judith Ivey. Nell Carter has 
been signed for a new project to be pro- 
duced by Weintraub Entertainment and 
NBC Productions (NBCP). 

This spring, NBC has several new come- 
dies awaiting word of an air date, including 
a half-hour comedy version of Tattinger's, 
which may be called Many Reservations in 
its new version (which, Tartikoff quipped, 
was '"apropos"). Two other shows in the 
midseason corral include Nearly Departed. 
with Eric Idle of Monty Python fame, and a 
series from Fred Silverman and Columbia 


Promises, promises. Brandon Тапікой, f 


je! of NBC Entertainment, swore on à 


stack of Bibles at fast week's press tour in Los Angeles thet “I wil not buy агу more 
specials from Geraldo Rivera," and ‘hat he would not seex Io buy or option а sequel to 
The Goddess of Love. "But | would like lo work wth Vanne Whee again,” ^e quipped 
"Father" Bill Morey granted Tartikoff а specal dispensation for an upcoming telefilrn The 
Sex Tapes, which the network has picked for airing next month “Ол i's forthe sweeps. s 


it?" actor Morey asked. "Well, perhaps we cen talk about а change of tite’ 


Pictures Television starring Maria Conchita 

Alonzo (‘‘Moscow on the Hudson"). 
On the drama side, Friday is being re- 

vamped this month with a new series from 


Stephen J. Cannell, tentatively called Un- 


known Subject, about an elite detective 
squad within the Federal Bureau of Investi- 
gation (debuting Feb, 3) and Father Dowi- 
ing Mysteries (debuting Jan. 20). Addition- 
al backup programs for Friday, NBC’s 


A corporation formed 
by 


Legacy Broadcasting, Inc./ 
Sillerman Acquisition Corp. 


has acquired through merger 
100% of the outstanding stock 


of 
Metropolitan Broadcasting Holding Company 
owner of 


WNEW-FM 
New York 


WNEW-AM 
New York 


KTWV-FM 


Los Angeles 


WMMR-FM 
Philadelphia 


KRLD-AM 
Dallas 


The Texas State Networks 
Dailas 


in a transaction valued at 


$306,000,000 


We initiated this transaction and represented the buyer. 


Sillerman-Magee 


150 EAST 58TH STREET - NEW YORK · NEW YORK 10155 
ONE OF THE SILLERMAN COMPANIES 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
93 


biggest problem night, include the previ- 
ously announced Dream Street and The Jim 
Henson Hour, as well as Quantum Leap, a 
drama about time travel. 

Tartikoff reported that Terry Louise Fish- 
er, co-creator of L.A. Law, was at work on 
a drama for NBC and that John Sayles has 
written a pilot for NBCP called Skannon’s 
Deal about an investigative attorney. NBCP 
is developing a drama based on the FBI 
character played by Robert Loggia in last 
year’s mini-series, Favorite Son. 

Tartikoff said NBCP produced about five 
pilots during last year’s development sea- 
son, and will probably double that output. 
In addition, NBCP is producing the NBC 
daytime serial Generations and is develop- 
ing several Saturday morning programs. 
“We hope to have two out of five hours of 
Saturday morning provided by NBC Pro- 
ductions,’’ said Tartikoff. 

On the mini-series front, Tartikoff re- 
ported that television producer/director 
Gregg Hoblitt has been signed to direct a 
project about the landmark U.S. Supreme 
Court abortion decision, Roe vs. Wade. 
Also in development is a mini-series treat- 
ment of Phantom of the Opera (from Edgar 
Scherick), expected to air next December, 
as well as one about the founding of the Ku 
Klux Klan called Cross of Fire, from Leon- 
ard Hill Productions. Michael Mann is pro- 
ducing a mini-series called Desperados: The 
Kiki Camarena Story, based on the book by 
Elaine Shannon. 

Also, NBC will rebroadcast on March 24 
the Peter Pan production starring Mary 
Martin, which has not been on television 
for 16 years, Tartikoff said. 

Tartikoff acknowledged mixed results so 
far for Disney’s new Sunday night program 
at 7 p.m., consisting of rotating series, 
movies and specials. ‘‘I hate to keep hiding 
behind the writers’ strike’’ as the reason 
behind the woes of new programs, he said. 
“Вис it is a fact that the original idea was 
having four elements that rotated on a 
month-to-month basis. That’s one idea. 
What we’ve been doing is another, which is 
Davy Crockett turns up once and then 
comes back two months later.’’ Other series 
in the rotation have also failed to keep pace, 
he said. О 


Stringer gives 
thumbs up 
to LeMasters 


In the face of recent speculation that has 
CBS Entertainment President Kim LeMas- 
ters on the way out as head of that division 
on the heels of a slate of failed first-year 
programing this season, Howard Stringer, 
president, CBS/Broadcast Group, gave Le- 
Masters and the entire entertainment divi- 
sion team a vote of confidence during the 
CBS portion of the January press tours. 
“Рт completely satisfied with the team 
that is ш place now in the entertainment 
division," said Stringer. "Its important 
that we have a collaborative effort, and we 
have the parts to do just that," he said. 
Stringer did not place the blame for this 


Stringer 


season's prime time failure at LeMasters' 
feet; instead, he listed several other factors. 
"Last year's schedule was made in the 
midst of changing executives, in a period of 
transition," he said. “АП areas," he said, 
"were in a period of chaos, including the 
news division." 

Stringer's main responsibility in the last 


six months since he replaced Gene Jan- 


kowski, he said, has been ‘‘to turn the 
network into a confident place to work."* 
Another of his duties has been to visit with 
producers in an effort to make CBS more 
attractive to the creative community. Thus 
far, producers have tended to shun the 
third-place network, preferring to take their 
shows to either NBC or ABC. ''We have a 
clear problem at 8 p.m.,’” Stringer said, 
referring to the network's awkward at- 
tempts to schedule a successful early-eve- 
ning comedy. ''Despite our efforts to woo 
members of the Hollywood community, we 
haven't had much success," he said. 
“Looking at our situation,” said Stringer, 
“по one would be eager to walk into an 8 
p.m. slot. However,"' he joked, ‘‘the peak 
of our slump has been reached.” 
Despite the recent popularity of what is 
called *'trash TV,” Stringer said that pro- 
graming, which he described as ‘the dark 
at the end of the tunnel," will not be found 
on CBS. ''If we hope to regain any of our 
‘Tiffany network’ reputation," he said, 
"we have to ignore certain quick-fix strate- 
Bies that may grab an instant audience. If 
you strangle your grandmother on televi- 
sion, you'll get good ratings," he said, 
“but you can be sure she won't be back for 
à second interview." o 


Shifting gears: CBS hits second place, again 


NBC won the prime time week (ended Jan. 8, the 16th week of the 1988-89 season), but 
CBS's second-place average was just shy of upsetting NBC's winning streak. NBC won 


0.1 points for the current week. 


telecasts of football.) 


Nietsen а Net о Show 
28 6/43 Cosby Show 
256/38 © 60 Minutes 
3 251/35 C Murder. She Wrote 
4 25.137 N Cheers 
5 25.0/37 N Different World 
242/35 A Roseanne 
23.5/37 ^ Golden Girls 
226/37 M Empty Nest 
9 21.7/32 ^ Who's the Bass? 
10 20.8/31 N Dear John 
11 203/31 А Growing Pains 
12 20.231 С Designing Women 
13 195/732 M LA. Law 
14 19 2/29 ^ Head of the Class 
E 19.1/28 С Murphy Brown 
ie 190/33 M Hunter 
"m 18.828 С CBS Sunday Movie 
tá 18.4/28 N Unsolved Mysteries 
t9 18.230 М Amen 
20 18.026 N Matlock 
2 178/28 û Full House 
2 17.4206 ^ АВС Sunday Movie 
3 17.2/26 У In the Heat of the Night 
24 16.926 © CBS Tuesday Movie 
25 16.827 A  Perlect Strangers 
2 16.7/25 А  thirtysamething 
; 16.5728 № 227 
m 16.4427 С Knots Landing 
Am 16.2/23 N Family Ties 
30 16.125 4 Mr. Belvedere 
3 15.9724 N Night Court 
32 15.827 © Almost Grown 
х 158/25 С CBS Wednesday Movie Special 
354 15.7725 С Dallas 
w 15.7/23 C TV 101 Spécial 
+ 15.4/26 A 20/20 
37 15.123 N Fiesta Bow! 
38 14.824 А Just the Ten of Us 


“Indicates premiere episode 


Broadcasting Jan 18 1989 
94 


the week with a 15.5 rating and a 24.1 share. CBS came in right behind with a 15.4/23.9 
ABC closed out the week with a 12.8/19.9. 

The previous week, ended Jan. 1, CBS narrowly edged out ABC for second place; but 
the gap between runner-up and first place then was a full 1.3 rating points, not the slim 


CBS also won the evening news race, pulling in a 13.5/23 over ABC's 12.3/21 and | 
NBC's 11.6/20. (The latter two networks preempted their Monday night newscasts for 


Nielsen о № о Show 

39 14.822 А Rose Bowl 

40 14.5/22 A Wonder Years 

1 143/21 N NBC Sunday Movie 

42 140/20 N Day by Day 

з 13 9/23 A China Beach 

44 13 5/20 С 48 Hours 

45 13422 М Midnight Caller 

46 133/20 А  Hooperman 

47 12 9/22 © Falcon Crest 

4n 128/21 ^ Orange Bow! Game 

49 127/21 А Heartbeat Special 

50 122718 С Paradise 

5! 121419 С Beauty and the Beast 

52 11.3845 С Тош of Duty 

‘a 112/18 С CBS Saturday Movie Special 

3A 11 119 N Miami Vice 

55 10.815 А Dynasty 

E 10715 N Baby Boom 

57 Married... With Children 

58 Incredibie Sunday 

zu Magical World of Disney 

a ABC Saturday Mowe ^ 

6 NBC Friday Mowie и 

62 America's Mosi Wanted $ 

єз Мероч moosstle 4 

64 Sugar Bow т 

65 7% С Wes 57h Е 

66 7543 М Tattrgors > 

67 rwit C Tv 101 £ 

eh 8711 А Herba & 

єй 6511 С nity Danona ы 
0 529 A Mrightwatch 2 
1 6 19 + 1 Jump Street Ё 

55/8 Е Пану Standing Show 8 
3 49/7 Е Tice, Ulman Show 2 
m 376 Е Duet > 
5 33/6 F Reporters g 
1.9/3 Г Beyond Tomorrow 9 


Fox affiliates: 
feisty in L.A. 


Third night of programing 
confirmed for Monday night; 
screenings impress affiliates 


What a difference a year makes. Last Janu- 
ary, Fox Broadcasting Co. executives were 
scrambling to prevent a number of FBC 
affiliates from jumping ship in the wake of 
the network's failures in late night and Sat- 
urday night programs. The network eventu- 
ally failed to hang on to several key affili- 
ates including VHF stations in Portland, 
Ore., and Minneapolis. 

By comparison, FBC's second annual af- 
filiates meeting in Los Angeles on Jan. 7 
was a relative love fest from which affili- 
ates emerged ‘‘feeling up beat and up tem- 
po," as one station executive put it. At the 
meeting, FBC confirmed it would launch a 
third night of series programing, on Mon- 
days, starting Sept. 11. The network also 
confirmed that a new Friday late night pro- 
gram called Revolution would premiere 
April 23 (the start time is not set but will 
probably be either 11 p.m. or 11:30 p.m.). 

Affiliates at the meeting also reported 
that FBC screened some 25 programs cur- 
rently in development which appeared to 
leave most in attendance impressed. ‘‘Fox 
has overcome some big hurdles,” said Mi- 
chael Fisher, general manager, KTXL(TV) 
Sacramento and newly elected chairman of 
the FBC affiliate board of governors. ‘ЕВС 
is now something that must be taken seri- 
ously,” he said. 

Fisher and others cite the national atten- 
tion being paid to such programs as Mar- 
ried... With Children, America's Most Want- 
ed, It's Garry Shandling’s Show and The 
Tracy Ullman Show seen on FBC's popular 
Sunday lineup. Just as important, many af- 
filiates are finally seeing modest gains on 
Saturdays with FBC's slate of reality pro- 
grams including The Reporters and Beyond 
Tomorrow or at least a stemming of ratings 
losses. 

“It’s been a year of maturity for Fox," 
said Stu Powell, general manager, KNXv-Tv 
Phoenix. Affiliates are upbeat, he said, be- 
cause in many cases, association with FBC 
has led to ratings gains across the board for 
stations and not just ш FBC-programed 
time periods. Powell suggested that given 
the gains over the past year, and signals 
from Fox that they are here for the long 
haul, most, if not all, affiliates will remain 
on the bandwagon. 

There is no word yet on what series FBC 
will program on Mondays, or even the mix 
of dramas and comedies. But affiliates that 
attended the meeting came away with the 
impression that the network has enough in 


development to program several more 
nights of prime time. 
Among the development projects 


screened at the affiliates meeting: 

= A drama to be produced by Francis 
Ford Coppola entitled The Outsiders, based 
on the film of the same name that he pro- 
duced in 1983. 

W A Twilight Zone-type anthology pro- 


gram called Ghost Writer, featuring Antho- 
ny Perkins. 

в Wurlitzer, an hour project from Patrick 
Hasburgh using top music hits from the past 
25 years to flash back to characters’ past. 

8 Let's Get Mom, a comedy in which Car- 
ol Kane will star. 


B Creep Show, a comedy-horror show 
based on the movie of the same name. 

® The Simpsons, a spin-off of the strange 
family of animated characters seen in little 
cartoons on Tracy Ullman. 

8 City Court, the 21 Jump Street spin off 
that died has now come back to life. O 


Returning to OPT. Operation Prime Time, the stanion-producer cooperative that паз 
Geveloped lirst-un syndication programs for 12 years. is down Sut ^er aut. At а program 
session at the INTY convention, Al Masini, president of ТееВео and OPT founder, said 
he hed beer preoccupied with other pressing matters, including re realignment of about 
two-thirds of the rep firm's client list, in the wake о! staton ownership changes 

"ОРТ is still alive," he said. "But we need to reorganize. The key probem. he said, 
was that OPT's supporters have become а more diverse grove, making il difficult “le get 
unanimity on any given project.” The last ОРТ special was in May. and was епіс 
Emma: Queen of the South Seas, which fared only "OK" in t^e ratings 

o 
Good news at PBS. Some of public TV's news programing is i^ a league of 4s own 
according to PBS press tour participants Bill Plante, CBS-TV State Department corre- 
spondent, Bill Kurtis, waBM-Tv anchor and former CBS Morwing News anchor, and 
Michael Deaver, former While House deputy chief of staff. 

Kurtis, host of Secret Intelligence (PBS, Jan, 23 8 p.m. NYT), said, “PBS is the only 
place where you will see large documentary units. | am proud to be associated wilh this 
project [when] tabloid telavsios has oecome dominant. 1715 should stand out like the 
Washington Monument.” If he ^ad it to do again, Deaver saic, | would spend а 501 more 
time on public television райсшайу MacNel'Lekrer, on baing sure got spokesmen оп 
that show." Said Plante: "| wish that network television would do programs such as [tne 
Frontline documentary The Real Lile of Ronald Reagan (Jan 18, Эрт. NYTJ], ог more 
of them. The fact is it doesn’t” 

B 


Billy bail. Billy Packer's College Basketball, a syndicated half-hour weekly college 
basketball report, debuted Jan. 7 оп 130 television stations, including 50 of the top 50 
markets and reaching 90% of the U.S. The program, hosted by the former Wake Forest 
coach and current color commentator for CBS college оазкева! and pro playofls § 
syndicated by SNI Sports Network, St. Louis, and is sold ‘or both cash and baner. 


Metropolitan Broadcasting 
Holding Company 


$95,000,000 
Senior Notes due 1991. 


We arranged the private placement of these notes. 


150 EAST 58TH STREET + NEW YORK + NEW YORK 10155 
ONE OF THE SILLERMAN COMPANIES 


199$ 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1969 
95 


Reagan 


1990 edition includes plan to 
auction off nonbroadcast spectrum; 
FCC says it can live with its 
allocation; USIA complains 


President Reagan's final budget, submitted 
to Congress last week, would provide the 
FCC with funding that the agency that has 
cried poverty in recent months says it can 
live with in fiscal year 1990—5109.8 mil- 
lion, some $10 million more than Congress 
appropriated for it in 1989. But that may 
not be the most significant element of the 
1990 budget as far as communications is 
concerned. That could be the proposal— 
part of the Reagan administration's effort to 
reduce the deficit without new taxes—to 
auction off portions of the spectrum not 
used for mass media. The budget estimates 
that $2.3 billion in 1990 and $1.1 billion in 
1991 could be raised if 6 mhz of currently 
unassigned portions of the spectrum were 
offered for bid. 

The Reagan administration's effort to re- 
duce the deficit is seen also in the proposal 
to allow the U.S. Information Agency, for 
many years one of Reagan's favorite agen- 
cies, $951 million. That would be a $66.8 
million increase over the agency's current 
appropriation. But agency officials say the 
overall figure masks the fact the actual in- 
crease for the operating budget comes to 
$18 million, some $16 million less, offi- 
cials complain, than needed to cover the 
agency's increased operating costs. In a 
related item, the budget proposes an appro- 
priation of $425 million for the Board for 
International Broadcasting, which oversees 
Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty. That 
would represent about a 100% increase in 
funding for BIB, but almost half the total— 
$207 million—would be earmarked for 
construction of a high priority shortwave 
relay station, now being built in Israel for 
use of Voice of America and the two Radi- 
05. 

What's more, as in years past, the Rea- 
gan administration sets the stage for another 
battle with public broadcasting's supporters 
in Congress over funding for the Corpora- 
tion for Public Broadcasting. This time, the 
budget would cap CPB funding, which is 
approved two years in advance, at the [99] 
level—$242 million— and stop funding a 
satellite replacement project at the amount 
already appropriated—$56.8 million. And 
as in past years, the administration would 
call for the elimination of funding for the 
Public Telecommunications Facilities Pro- 
gram. Congress regularly ignores that pro- 
posal; it provided $20 million in 1989. 

How much any of those figures and plans 
survives the onset of the Bush administra- 
tion remains to be seen. Members of Con- 
gress have declared the Reagan budget ir- 
relevant. They say they will focus on the 
revisions to be made in it by President 


offers final budget legacy 


George Bush, after his inauguration on Jan. 
20. However, Treasury Secretary Nicholas 
F. Brady, who will hold the same position 
under Bush, said at a briefing on the budget 
that ‘‘it’s probable that much of the current 
budget will remain on the table” when the 
new administration takes office. 

The $109.8 million in funding proposed 
for the commission is some $2 million less 
than commission officials had asked the 
Office of Management and Budget to in- 
clude in the budget for the agency. But 
Edward Minkel, the commission's manag- 
ing director, said it is a sum the agency can 


OF THE 
UNITED STATES 
GOVERNMENT 


FISCAL YEAR 


1990 


“live with." It would enable the commis- 
sion to acquire the technical equipment and 
computers it says it needs, and to increase 
the number of full-time positions to 1,783, 
which would be relatively full strength. The 


number is now less than 1,760 and is ех-. 


pected to drop to about 1,660 as a result of 
the hiring freeze now in effect. Minkel also 
said the proposed funding would enable the 
commission to pay the salaries of the two 
commissioners expected to be named this 
year to fill vacancies, and their staffs— 
about $500,000, in all. 

In addition to the new funding for 1990, 
the White House is seeking a supplemental 
appropriation of $1.4 million to cover a 
shortíall of some $5 million for 1989. The 
commission says that results from Con- 
gress's appropriation of $99.6 million for 
the agency, the same amount as was pro- 
vided for the agency in 1988. The White 
House had sought $104.7 million. And un- 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
96 


less the supplemental—which would be 
transferred from funds assigned to the Com- 
merce Department—is approved, the com- 
mission says, it will be forced to furlough 
employes for several days. The hiring 
freeze now in effect and an ‘‘early out" 
authorization obtained from the Office of 
Personnel Management—permitting com- 
mission employes to take early retire- 
ment—were other measures used to deal 
with the shortfall. 

The proposal to auction off 6 mhz of an 
unassigned portion of the spectrum is the 
third version of an idea that first appeared 
in a Reagan budget in 1987. In its first 
configuration, it took the form of an auction 
of nonbroadcast portions of the spectrum. 
Last year, the President proposed a fee, but 
again limited the concept to nonbroadcast 
portions of the spectrum. In again casting 
the idea in terms of an auction, the latest 
budget says the competitive bidding process 
could be used for such services as cellular 
radio and private land mobile radio. But the 
estimate as to the revenue that could be 
realized—$3.4 billion over the next two 
years—is substantially higher than figures 
projected in the past. Last year, the budget 
said a fee would generate $250 million an- 
nually. 

The estimates are based on an FCC study 
of a cash-flow analysis by Kidder, Peabody 
of the private sector value of cellular tele- 
phone licenses in both rural and urban ar- 
eas. The study produced a figure of $563 
million per mhz, nationwide. Commission 
officials who worked on the study said the 
figures on which the estimates were based 
were "conservative." And Peter Pitsch, 
FCC Chairman Dennis Patrick's chief of 
staff, said: ** You can look at trading prices 
and see this is not off the mark."' 

The budget describes the ''competitive 
bidding’’ process as the most efficient and 
economical method of assigning frequency 
channels to those ‘“‘who can put them to 
their highest valued use without the need 
for costly, time-consuming allocations and 
resales.'' It says that comparative hearings, 
one of two methods the commission now 
uses to assign frequencies, are often lengthy 
and complex administrative proceedings. 
Lotteries, the only other method, the budget 
adds, are employed only after the commis- 
sion ‘“‘processes thousands of applica- 
tions." Both methods, the budget says, 
‘tare costly to the FCC and delay the intro- 
duction of value to the public.” 

Congress has rejected the two previous 
proposals for selling or leasing the spec- 
trum, on the ground they would undercut 
the public interest principle embedded in 
the Communications Act. But in view of 
the pressing need to find new sources of 
revenue to help reduce the deficit, congres- 
sional aides say, members of Congress 


might be ready to discuss the matter with 
the White House if a meeting were held to 
discuss the budget. One aide anticipated a 
greater interest in Congress in leasing than 
in auctioning spectrum: "There would be 
less money up íront but the payments 
would continue." What's more. he said 
Congress might be prepared to include the 
entire spectrum, not only a portion reserved 
for nonbroadcast use. 

Indeed, Senators Ernest Hollings (D- 
S.C.), chairman of the Senate Commerce 
Committee, and Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii). 
chairman of the Communications Subcom- 
mittee, demonstrated their interest in a mea- 
sure that would impose a 296-496 tax on the 
transfer of station sales. They proposed an 
amendment to a deficit-reduction package 
that would have embodied the tax, but in 
December 1987 it was stripped from the bill 
on the floor of the Senate after an all-out 
lobbying campaign by the National Ássoci- 
ation of Broadcasters. А few months later, 
it was back in the form of a bill on which 
the subcommittee held hearings. The mea- 
sure died in committee. But last April, Hol- 
lings and Inouye held hearings on a mea- 
sure embodying the transfer tax. And while 
it died in committee, sources suggest the 
senators may be ready to back a spectrum 
fee. 


USIA no longer enjoys the fat budgets to 
which it had become accustomed under Di- 
rector Charles Z. Wick. In the budget sent 
up to Capitol Hill last week, $24 million of 
what seemed a $66.8 million boost over the 
$884 million Congress appropriated for it in 
1989 is earmarked for repayment to the 
State Department for services it provides 
the agency. Another $24.1 million consti- 
tutes part of the $89.9 million to be spent 
on two shortwave relay station projects, in 
Morocco and Thailand. They are the only 
major shortwave stations that will be built 
out of four originally envisioned in an am- 
bitious modernization program begun in 
1983 (BROADCASTING, Oct. 24, 1988). 

The Voice of America is in the Reagan 
budget for $170.2 million, only $500,000 
more than was provided for it in 1989. The 
news for VOA would have been worse if 
the President's budget drafters had not 
yielded and restored $4.5 million of a pro- 
posed cut of $10 million from USIA’s re- 
quest for VOA. OMB argued that, since 
VOA was nearing the end of the modem- 
ization program, its need for engineers was 
less. The Voice is anxious to retain its 
engineers until the modernization project is 
further along, and will apply the cut to its 
English and some of its foreign-language 
services. USIA’s international television 
network, Worldnet, also suffered; OMB put 
it in the budget for only $36.3 million, 
about $2 million less than was appropriated 
for it last year. OMB cited the fact that 
Congress has barred Worldnet from broad- 
casting USIA-originated news and public 
affairs programing. 

Radio Marti—officially, Radio Broad- 
casting to Cuba, an arm of VOA—is in the 
budget for $12.7 million, some $1.5 mil- 
lion more than was provided for it in 1989, 
The question of whether there will be a TV 
Marti—as urged by anti-Castro backers of 
Radio Marti and their supporters in Con- 


gress—remains to be answered. The admin- 
istration is conducting tests from a point in 
the Florida Keys to determine the feasibility 
of establishing a television station that 
would broadcast to Cuba. Congressional 
committees with oversight responsibility 
have made it clear they will not consider the 
matter until the tests have been completed 
and evaluated. As for the BIB. whose radi- 
os broadcast in 22 languages to Eastern 
Europe and the Soviet Union, it would op- 
erate on an appropriation of $218 million if 
the President's budget was approved. That 
would be about $23 million more than has 
been available to it in 1989. And some $28 
million would be used to complete the re- 
furbishing of a relay station in Portugal. 
But the Israeli relay station—which will 
house 16 500 kw transmitters and will be 
used to send broadcasts to the Soviet 
Union, Afghanistan and Eastern Europe— 
remains the major project, for both VOA 
and the BIB. Congress has already appro- 
priated some $67 million for the facility. 
And the $207 million being sought in 1990 
would cover the remaining costs, but would 
be paid over the remaining four years of 
construction. Under the terms of the agree- 
ment with Israel, the principal contract will 
be awarded to an Israeli firm, the subcon- 
tract for the major electronics components, 
to an American company. 
a 


The Corporation for Public Broadcasting 
last week found itself in the not unfamiliar 
position of being at odds with the White 


House over funding for public broadcast- 
ing. The administration's decision to seek a 
freeze on funding for both public broadcast- 
ing and the proposed satellite replacement 
is. said CPB President Donald Ledwig, in 
one of the more restrained comments in the 
history of White House-CPB confrontations 
over spending—contrary to the expectation 
of Congress. Congress has authorized CPB 
funding of $265 million for 1992 and $285 
million for 1993, as well as a total of $200 
million over the next three years to replace 
the satellite-distribution capacity that will 
be lost when Westar V, which now relays 
public broadcasting programing around the 
country, goes dark in the next two years. 
The White House, in proposing to cap CPB 
funding at the 1991 level and withhold any 
additional funding for satellite replacement, 
says in the budget: ‘This level is sufficient 
to meet programing requirements while 
providing incentives for the development of 
nonfederal sources of funding.” 
о 


Аз for the National Telecommunications 
and [nformation Administration, the Presi- 
dent's principal adviser on telecommunica- 
tions matters, it would receive $14.6 mil- 
lion, close to $1 million more than was 
appropriated for it in 1989. The additional 
money will permit an increase in personnel 
from 278 to 300. Most of the new people 
will be employed at NTIA's Institute for 
Telecommunication Sciences in Boulder, 
Colo.. performing reimbursable work for 
other agencies. 


$118,000,000 


Legacy Broadcasting, Inc. 


$65,000,000 Senior Notes due 1993. 
$53,000,000 Senior Subordinated Notes due 1994. 


We arranged the private placement of these notes. 


Sillerman- Magee 


150 EAST 58TH STREET + NEW YORK + NEW YORK 10155 
ONE OF THE SILLERMAN COMPANIES 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
97 


ЕСС says total indecency ban is 


Brief filed by commission says 
Congress has authority to 
prohibit broadcasts in effort 

to protect children 


In its efforts since 1975 to protect children 
from ''indecent'' programing, the FCC has 
relied on channeling to achieve that objec- 
tive without doing violence to the First 
Amendment. Such programing is permissi- 
ble if broadcast after 10 p.m., it said in the 
1975 Pacifica Foundation case, or after 
midnight, it said in the 1987 Infinity Broad- 
casting Corp. decision. But last week, in a 
brief filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals in 
Washington opposing a petition for a stay 
of its order that was filed by 17 petitioners, 
the commission maintained that a 24-hour 
ban of such programing would not violate 
the First Amendment. The rule is to be- 
come effective Jan. 27. 

The commission adopted its 24-hour rule 
under a mandate from Congress (“п 
Brief,” Dec. 26, 1988). And as the agency 
noted in its brief, the case for the first time 
raises the issue of whether Congress ''has 
the authority to protect children by prohibit- 
ing altogether the broadcast of indecent ma- 
terials.'* The commission argues that Con- 
gress does. “In sum," it says, ''Congress 
found that, as a practical matter, there is no 
time when children are not in the broadcast 
audience, and accordingly, there is no time 
to which indecent broadcasts can be chan- 
neled as a means of avoiding exposure to 
children.” 

President Reagan signed the legislation 
into law on Oct. 1, 1988, as the commis- 
sion, on a remand from the appeals court, 
was considering the rule it had adopted on 
Dec. 29, 1987, banning the broadcast of 
indecent programing between the hours of 
midnight and 6 a.m. The court held that the 
commission һай not adequately explained 
its reasons for reducing the ‘‘safe harbor" 
for such programing it had previously al- 
lowed, one starting at 10 p.m. The legisla- 
tion requiring the 24-hour rule was in the 
form of an amendment to an appropriations 
bill. It had been introduced by Senator Jes- 
se Helms (R-N.C.), and won swift approval 
in both houses without hearings in either. 

The commission, in disputing petition- 
ers’ contention that they would be likely to 
prevail in a proceeding on the merits, relied 
in its arguments for a 24-hour ban on the 
points made by Helms on the floor of the 
Senate: Every American home has televi- 
sion and radio sets. Most children have 
their own radios. According to Arbitron 
ratings for New York, Los Angeles and 
Chicago, more than one million children in 
those cities alone listen to the radio after 
midnight. And ‘‘with VCR recording ma- 
chines and programable tape decks, chil- 
dren can record this garbage and watch and 
listen to it later." And ‘‘Congress’s deter- 
mination that channeling is not sufficient to 
protect children from exposure to indecent 
broadcasts,'' the commission said, *‘ts enti- 
Пей to substantial deference.” 

The commission also said a Supreme 
Court decision holding unconstitutional a law 


it said reduced the adult population to hearing 
or seeing only what was fit for children did 
not apply to the 24-hour rule. For while there 
are ways of protecting children from expo- 
sure to adult books and movies, the commis- 
sion said, *'there is simply no way to separate 
children from adults in the broadcast audi- 
епсе.'* And although the Supreme Court af- 
firmed the commission’s channeling ap- 
proach in the 1978 Pacifica case, that 
decision, the commission said, ‘і not pre- 
clude” an outright ban on the broadcast of 
indecent material. ‘“The court expressly left 
that issue to another дау.” 

The commission also rejected petition- 
ers’ argument that a stay pending judicial 


constitutional 


review is required to protect the members 
of the public from ‘‘irreparable harm’” that 
would result from what they said would be 
an infringement of First Amendment rights. 
The commission said “‘the detrimental ef- 
fects of indecent broadcasts on children” 
should also be considered. Nor was the 
commission cooperative in responding to 
the petitioners’ request for an expedited 
hearing so that the court might act before 
Jan. 27, the effective date of the rule. The 
commission said it would comply with any 
briefing schedule set by the court, but *'re- 
spectfully’’ requested that it be afforded 
“ће customary 30 days to brief this case in 
accordance’ with the rules of the court.O 


Quello having second thoughts 
about telco entry 


Commissioner reconsidering vote 
to allow phone companies to own 
cable systems in service areas 


FCC Commissioner James Quello is having 
second thoughts about his ‘‘tentative’’ vote 
last summer favoring an FCC recommenda- 
tion to Congress that it lift the statutory ban 
against telephone companies Owning cable 
systems in their telephone service areas— 
that is, to allow telcos in those areas to own 
and operate a video distribution system and 
provide programing to consumers over it. 

The FCC reached its ‘tentative conclu- 
sion’’ to recommend repeal of the ban at its 
July 20 meeting, putting the issue out for 
further public comment before making its 
final determination (BROADCASTING, July 
25, 1988). Quello now represents the swing 
vote. FCC Chairman Dennis Patrick, who 
is pushing the recommendation, voted for 
it; Commissioner Patricia Diaz Dennis vot- 
ed against it. The arithmetic may change 
before the issue is ripe for the final vote. if 
the White House and Congress can find 
mutually acceptable people to fill one or 
both of the vacancies on the commission. 

In an interview last week, Quello said he 
was reconsidering his vote in light of new- 
found concerns that telephone companies, 
if allowed to offer television programing, 
may harm ‘free television" and ‘‘sup- 
plant’’ rather than compete with cable sys- 
tems. He said he was also concerned about 
the ability of the telcos to use revenue from 
their monopoly telephone service to subsi- 
dize their television operations. “lf 1 do 
vote for it,’’ he said, ‘‘there are going to be 
some pretty good restrictions on that vote.'' 

Quello said he would reserve final judg- 
ment until all the votes are in, but the 
"burden of proof” has shifted from the 
cable to the telephone industry. 

Аз Quello now sees it, telco entry into 
television should be conditioned on it carry- 
ing the signals of local television stations 
for free (as most cable systems now do) and 
delivering it to the public for free (as no 
cable systems do). 

“1 believe broadcasting is the only ser- 


Broadcasting Jan !6 1989 
98 


vice that still has a public interest obliga- 
tion. lt is the only one that provides vital 
local news, local public affairs and local 
service like road conditions, school clos- 
ings and civic drives,’ Quello said. ‘I’m a 
little bit worried about what happens when 
and if the entire system gets to be a paid 
system where everyone has to pay. 1$ it true 
the poor—those unable to pay—will be- 
come disenfranchised?'' 

Quello said safeguards are needed to in- 
sure that the telephone companies compete 
with cable systems. ‘‘] don't want to re- 
place a current monopoly with a larger, 
more powerful one," he said. "| want a 
separate, competitive system...] don't see 
the upside of allowing phone companies to 
buy the cable companies." 

Tough safeguards are also needed to pre- 
vent cross-subsidization, Quello said. ‘Аз 
you get closer to it, you may need com- 
pletely separate capitalization to insure 
there is no cross subsidy,” he said. ‘*They 
would have to raise their money through 
bank loans and stocks and bond issues like 
anyone else. Otherwise, you have а subsidi- 
zation problem there that is just too tough to 
control.” 

But Quello also suggested that ‘‘зерагае 
capitalization" is not the perfect solution. 
“That’s а hell of a lot of government inject- 
ing itself in order to serve the public inter- 
est," he said. 

Quello said his rethinking of the issue 
began after reading the first round of com- 
ments on the ‘‘tentative conclusion’ in 
BROADCASTING's Dec. 26, 1988, issue. 
Some of the comments...frankly open my 
eyes a little bit... We went in this thing 
kind of fast with the idea of having compe- 
tition. But what's to keep telephone from 
eventually becoming the only опе?” 

On what terms telcos will be allowed to 
participate in TV will evolve over the next 
10 or 15 years and may eventually involve a 
rewrite of the Communications Act, Quello 
said. “Ву the time this issue gets to be 
settled, Il be either with the great regula- 
tor in the sky or in the nether world, look- 
ing down or up on what happens." O 


CNBC affiliates 


CNBC, NBC's new cable venture, said it 
has signed eight MSO's tetaling one million 
subscribers to charter affiliation 
agreements. The service, now scheduled 
for launch April 17, will have 10 million 
homes on line at that time. 

The systems include Adelphia, 
Bresnan, Hauser, Scripps Howard Cable, 
Prestige Cable, ACI Management, 

Jones Programing Services and Leonard 
Communications. 

Additionally, larger MSO's that have 
signed for CNBC are TCI, Cox, Comcast, 
Newhouse, Cablevision Systems and 
Post-Newsweek. 


Cable management program 


American Television & Communications 
President and Chief Operating Officer 
James Doolittle has joined the advisory 
board of the Denver UniversityM/omen in 
Cable management program. Doolittle 
joins 14 other cable operators, programers 
and association members on the board 
that oversees a management program and 
seminar held each year. 

WIC also announced that fellows from 
the Walter Kaitz Foundation will be brought 
into the Denver University-WIC program. 
The Kaitz Foundation aids in the training 
and placement of minorities in the cable 
industry. 


Adding to NACP board 


Five more members have been elected 

lo serve one-year terms on the board of the 
National Academy of Cable Programing. 
They are Margaret Durborow, president 
and chief operating officer, Cable 
Television Administration and Marketing 
Society; Ken Ehrlich, president, Ken 
Ehrlich Productions; Neil Heller, president, 
The Cable Guide; David Meister, 
president, Financial News Network, and 
Lenny Melamedas, director of studio 
operations, UA-Columbia Cablevision. 


Dream sequence 


TNT has signed actor Sam Waterston to 
play the lead role in The Nightmare Years, 
an original eight-hour mini-series based 
on William Shirer's book on Hitler's rise to 
power. The series will air next 

September, coinciding with the 50th 
anniversary of World War II. 


No go 


The New York State Cable Commission 
has blocked the sale of a Plattsburgh, N.Y., 
system from First Carolina to Cencom, 
rejecting it because it believes the deal's 
high price will be passed along to 
consumers. The commission has given 


Calblescastings 


First Carolina until Jan. 31 to justify why 
the sale should be approved. 

Cencom purchased the 16,000- 
subscriber system for nearly $40 million, or 
$2,400 per subscriber, a 50% increase 
over what First Carolina paid only one year 
earlier. Cencom follows First Carolina, 
James, Gateway and Wometco as the fifth 
buyer in four years. 

The commission found that 90% of the 
deal is leveraged, or that indebtness 
equals $2,100 per subscriber. Cencom 
was forecasting a profit margin of 66% by 
1993, with average revenue jumping 
from $21.63 in 1988 to $36.83 in 1993. In 
addition, Cencom proposed staff and 
maintenance cutbacks that also concern 
the commission. 

Separately, the commission has 
asked its counsel to explore drafting an 
antitrafficking rule that would mandate 
ownership for a minimum number of years, 
Such as three or five. 


САВ’$ cable directory 


The Cabletelevision Advertising Bureau 
has released its "1989 Cable Spot 
Advertising Directory," which provides 


KJOI-FM 
Los Angeles 


Dallas 


KRLD-AM 
Dallas 


The Texas State Networks 


information on the country's 90 
interconnects. CAB said that is a 12.596 
increase over the 80 interconnects last 
year. 

The directory also lists 105 single and 
multisystem cable advertising sales rep 
firms, up from 47 last year. The directory 
provides subscriber counts, networks 
available for insertion, systems 
represented, Designated Market Areas and 
Areas of Dominant Influence served, key 
personnel and listings of the top 100 
systems and MSO's. 


Soviet exposure 


Soviet television plans to broadcast 
"Young аї Heart," a documentary seen last 
year on The Learning Channel. The 
program follows the romance and marriage 
of artist Louis Gothelf, who emigrated 

from Russia at 13, and his wife, Reva 
Shwayder. Both are now in their 80's. 

The program, which won an Academy 
Award in 1988, advances the exchange 
between TLC and the Soviets. Earl er, 

The Learning Channel carried Russian 
Folk Songs and Russian Folk Dancing. 


Command Communications, Inc. 


has acquired 


KHOW-AM 


Denver 


KSYY-FM 
Denver 


for 


$145,000,000 


We represented, and provided equity to the buyer. 


Sillerman-Magee 


150 EAST 58TH STREET : NEVV YORK: NEW YORK 10155 
ONE OF THE SILLERMAN COMPANIES 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
99 


— ешш — 


EIA sets itself apart on HDTV 


At its consumer electronics show, 
association voices opposition to 
federal funding of HDTV development 


The Electronics [ndustry Association drew 
the line between its position and those of 
several others on the introduction of high- 
definition television to the U.S. during its 
annual Winter Consumer Electronics Show. 
Sharp differences between EIA and the 
American Electronics Association, the U.S. 
Defense Department and some members of 
Congress became clear on such issues as 
the desirability of open-architecture video 
receivers, the state of the American con- 
sumer electronics industry and whether the 
federal government should spend money to 
promote an American consumer electronics 
renaissance through HDTV. 

The CES was held at the Las Vegas 
convention center and at several nearby ho- 
tels, Jan. 7-10. Among other hot topics was 
the controversy between the consumer elec- 
tronics industry and Hollywood producers 
concerning duplication of prerecorded vid- 
eotapes on two-deck VCR's, an issue raised 
during a CES address delivered by Jack 
Valenti, president and chief executive offi- 
cer of the Motion Picture Association of 
America. 

As regulatory efforts to make the AM 
band more competitive with FM through 
changes in the technical regulations are be- 
ginning to be realized, radio manufacturers 
and broadcasters at the show were begin- 
ning to talk about their plans to be ready 
with new, improved AM radios to be intro- 
duced before the changes take place. 

EIA's position was outlined over the 
course of three HDTV panel sessions which 
included four congressmen and representa- 
tives from broadcasting and cable and 
AEA. Through its representatives on those 
panels, EIA (which includes several for- 
eign-owned companies on its membership 
roles) claimed that, contrary to popular 
opinion, American electronics today is 
competitive with the rest of the world. 

It separated itself from the AEA, which 
has said the U.S. must become a leading 
НОТУ manufacturer to maintain its current 
market share in semiconductors, and other 
electronics industries that say consumer 
electronics make up a small percentage of 
all electronics sold in the U.S. It also dif- 
fered with the AEA’s desire to develop 
open-architecture receivers, which involve 
using computer-like technology to use 
home video screens for a variety of pur- 
poses besides television viewing. 

Finally, EIA challenged the idea that 
Congress and the federal bureaucracy 
should use American tax money to help 
American-owned business regain a share of 
the consumer electronics market. The CES 
panels were held a few days after the Penta- 


gon announced that its Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Agency (DARPA) will 
grant up to $30 million to companies devel- 
oping HDTV video displays and circuits 
(BROADCASTING, Jan. 9). Also on the pan- 
elists minds was the Feb. | deadline for 
"action memos," which Representative 
Edward Markey (D-Mass.), chairman of 
the House Telecommunications Subcom- 
mittee, asked EIA, AEA and several other 
organizations to submit, outlining action 
Congress should take to encourage Ameri- 
can participation in HDTV equipment man- 
ufacturing. 

“If my tax dollar is going to be spent on 
the homeless, on education, on a number of 
other issues, that's where I would prefer to 
put it," said Tom Friel, group vice presi- 
dent, EIA/CES, in reaction to the DARPA 
actions. “И seems somewhat ludicrous to 
have the Defense Department as a research 
and development house for high-definition 
television." Following that thought, Gary 
Shapiro, vice president of EIA/CES's gov- 
ernment affairs department, asked a later 
congressional panel: ‘‘In a period of huge 
budget deficits, how realistic do you think 
it is for a public/private joint venture to 
fund HDTV-related industries in research 
and development? ' 

Representative George Brown Jr. (D- 
Calif.), a member of the House Science, 
Research and Technology Subcommittee, 
responded that the health of the entire do- 
тезис electronics industry is at stake. ‘‘Is 
the potential loss of [the U.S. electronics 
industry's] global preeminence any less im- 
portant than the loss of the savings and loan 
industry?" he asked, pointing out that in 
the recent budget proposed by the Reagan 
administration, $5 billion was set aside to 
bail out failing S&L's. ''We're not talking 
$5 billion or $10 billion here. We're talking 
$80 million or $100 million at the most to 
do the kind of thing that would be necessary 
to provide basic support for high-definition 


Broadcasling Jan 16 1989 
100 
aera) 


L to г: Congressmen Lent, Ritter, Swift and Brown 


television," Brown said. 

НА President Peter McCloskey ques- 
tioned whether the U.S. electronics indus- 
try is at stake. Only 12% of all electronics 
sold in this country is from the consumer 
branch of the industry. “It is not to say that 
the U.S. is not a competitive electronics 
industry today. We're going to hit $242 
billion in sales [in 1989]. That represents 
slightly over 8% increase from last year," 
he said. U.S.-owned companies have aban- 
doned the business in recent years, he said, 
because “it wasn't profitable to them. It 
was a very difficult business and it was also 
the business that the rest of the world seized 
upon as the entry to bootstrap up their own 
есопотіеѕ.'' McCloskey referred to ап EIA 
report released last fall that found that the 
majority of TV sets bought in the U.S. are 
produced here, many by foreign-owned 
subsidiaries. By the end of the 20th centu- 
ry, 92% of the HDTV sets sold in this 
country will be produced here, the report 
says (BROADCASTING, Dec. 5, 1988). The 
task then will be tto see that the U.S. 
semiconductor industry gets a fair shot and 
the electronic component is represented in 
the high-definition television set," Mc- 
Closkey said. 

That possible loss of American semicon- 
ductor representation is the main concern of 
the AEA, which represents 3,500 American 
high-tech firms, but few in the consumer 
electronics field. AEA President J. Richard 
Iverson cited an AEA report released about 
the same time as EIA's, which found that 
for the U.S. to maintain its current 37% 
level in the the world semiconductor market 
in the year 2010, it will have to hold at least 
50% of the world HDTV market. АБА has 
studied the current state of readiness to 
manufacture HDTV sets in America and 
found '*14 different approaches to receivers 
and a lot of entrepreneurial ideas, all of 
them underfunded,'' he said. 

McCloskey said AEA's position is unre- 


alistic. ‘‘To achieve a 50% share of the 
world [HDTV equipment] market, [ guess 
we would have to get 100% of the U.S. 
market and a share in the rest of the world 
as well." That achievement ‘‘would be 
rather startling,'" he said. 

Iverson said deeper government involve- 
ment will be needed. He applauded DAR- 
PA's involvement, but ''$30 million is a 
drop in the bucket compared with up to 
$700 million the Japanese have spent and 
the $250 million Europeans have spent. But 
still, it’s a start.” 

The congressmen there seemed to agree. 
Along with Brown, telecommunications 
subcommittee members Don Ritter (R-Pa.) 
and Al Swift (D-Wash.) and Norman Lent 
(R-N.Y.) of the parent Energy and Com- 
merce Committee also appeared. АП four 
favored congressional action but were 
vague about what programs might be adopt- 
ed. Brown spoke of a possible government- 
backed HDTV R&D consortium while Lent 
and Swift talked about reforming the cur- 
rent antitrust laws to encourage joint HDTV 
research efforts among private companies. 
"There are a whole variety of laws that 
really have worked pretty well in this coun- 
try as long as we were such a dominating 
economy in the world, but may not work as 
well now. Government is going to have to 
examine some of these policies," Swift 
said. Antitrust laws will be a prime area of 
reexamination, he said. 

Ritter attacked the idea that the U.S. 
need not have a role in HDTV production. 
‘What I hear is that maybe we don't need 
to be a main player in one of the most 
important inventions of the 20th century. 
And I think that, yes, we can have the 
manufacturing jobs if we want them. We 
can be like Mexico and Brazil are for auto- 
mobiles. But is that all it takes to be a world 


ower?” 
P o 


MPAA and EIA were adversaries in the 
1970's when Hollywood brought suits to 
block sales of consumer videocassette re- 
corders in the U.S. to protect their copy- 
tighted material that could be recorded off 
the air. Jack Valenti's presence as speaker 
at CES signified that there is peace between 
the camps today. "Let us do no harm to 
each other's futures, for each relies on the 
other," he said. 

But Valenti warned that new consumer 
electronics technologies such as dual deck 
VCR's are still a worry to Hollywood. He 
asked VCR manufacturers to install antico- 
pying electronics devices to defeat illegal 
copying of prerecorded videotapes. Go- 
Video, a U.S. company that plans to sell 
dual-deck machines, has agreed to install 
such devices. ‘‘This agreement ought to 
serve as a model which makers and market- 
ers of hardware would follow. It is the wise 
and reasonable course to our mutually forti- 
fied future," Valenti said. In the long term, 
he said it would be in the interest of both 
the industries if systems to defeat copying 
of movies from pay cable, pay-per-view 
and DBS could also be developed and in- 
stalled. 

On a more conciliatory note, Valenti 
admitted that movie attendance has grown 
annually since 1971, even as the VCR was 
gaining ground in American homes. Box 


office revenues of $4.4 billion in 1988 
were a record at the same time that VCR 
penetration went over 60% of U.S. 
homes. ''[ can only speculate that the 
velocity of this return to the cinema has 
been ignited by VCR viewing in the 
home, he said. He suggested that movie 
viewing on small screens whets consum- 
ers’ appetites for “a film in a pleasant 
theater, with several hundred unknown 
companions reacting together to a story 
told on a vast screen accompanied by six- 
track stereophonic sound.” 
D 

Regulatory and marketing strategies to re- 
vive AM radio listenership dominated the 
discussion at a CES panel on radio service 
in the future. Comments from government 
and industry panelists suggested that plans 
are in place to implement the National Ra- 
dio Systems Committee (NRSC, jointly 
sponsored by the ЕГА and the National As- 
sociation of Broadcasters) standards and 
other AM improvement measures. 

'*1989 is going to be an extremely active 
year for the FCC with regard to radio 
broadcasting," said Alex Felker, chief of 
the FCC's Mass Media Bureau. Early in the 
year, the FCC can be expected to adopt new 
rules making mandatory station installation 
of either the NRSC-1 audio standard or the 
NRSC-2 RF emission standard, or, possi- 
bly, both. Also to be adopted this year will 
be new AM technical regulations governing 
the calculation of groundwave and skywave 
propagation, nighttime protection ratios and 
others. Also soon to be adopted will be a 


$162,000,000 


Command Communications, Inc. 


formal rule change proposal to expand the 
АМ band from 1605 khz to 1705 khz for 
broadcast use, Felker said. Western Hemi- 
sphere countries have signed a treaty to 
expand the AM band, effective July 1, 
1990. 

Radio manufacturers on the panel indi- 
cated they will be ready for these changes. 
John Crawford, director of marketing, 
Delco Electronics Corp., said it has wid- 
ened the audio response of all of its AM 
stereo car radios to 6-7 khz, much wider 
than typical AM radios, which have re- 
sponses of less than 5 khz. By 1990, ‘‘all of 
our AM stereo units will be capable of 
utilizing the enhanced transmitter signal of- 
fered by NRSC-1 and -2,'° Crawford said. 
Delco also has drawn up designs for ex- 
panded band radios, but they have yet to be 
finalized. 

Ross Miyamoto of Sony's Auto Sound 
Group said all of their new 1989 model car 
radios are capable of picking up the ex- 
panded band and that the company plans to 
extend that capability to all its AM radios 
before July 1, 1990. It is also doing every- 
thing possible to improve the sound quality. 
Miyamoto said Sony has found that listen- 
ers exposed to music on compact disk are 
increasingly impatient with the quality of 
music over the radio. ‘‘Unless radio can 
provide the listener with high quality recep- 
tion as well as programing, the expansion 
of CD players in the home and the car is 
gradually going to steer people away from 
the limitations of radio broadcasting," he 
said. a 


$72,000,000 Senior Notes due 1996. 
$50,000,000 Senior Subordinated Notes due 1998. 
$25,000,000 Junior Subordinated Notes due 2000. 
$15,000,000 Preferred and Common Equity. 


We arranged the private placement of these securities 
and purchased Preferred and Common equity. 


Sillerman-Magee 


150 EAST 58TH STREET : NEW YORK · NEW YORK 10155 
ONE OF THE SILLERMAN COMPANIES 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
101 


Rewriting the 


Country's current broadcast 
'regulations to be revised with 
expected passage of 'Canadian 
Voices' bill; among changes are 
increased emphasis on producing 
and airing more locally produced 
programing; also included is 
provision similar to fairness doctrine 


The Canadian parliament this year is ex- 
pected to enact legislation whose mission is 
nothing less than to overhaul the existing 
framework of broadcast regulation and to 
strengthen the Canadian content and texture 
of the programing aired in that country. The 
Broadcasting Bill will sail into Parliament 
under the banner of ''Canadian Voices: Ca- 
nadian Choices,” the heading affixed to the 
paper describing the new broadcasting poli- 
су. That policy has already committed the 
government to spending $210 million over 
the next four years to achieve its policy 
goals. Americans likely to be most affected 
by the proceedings in Ottawa are producers 
of the television programing that is routine- 
ly gobbled up by Canadian networks and 
television stations. For one of the goals of 
the policy and legislation is the develop- 
ment of "more and better Canadian pro- 
graming, particularly drama." 

The measure—which would replace the 
1968 Broadcasting Act—and the policy 
statement reflect the sensitivity with which 


T 


Canada's Parliament building 


П 
ai _ ee eS Se 


communications rules in Canada 


Canadians, neighbors of a country with 10 
times their population, view the signifi- 
cance of the impact of broadcasting on their 
lives. “It is of fundamental importance to 
our political and cultural sovereignty that 
our broadcasting system be an accurate re- 
flection of who we are, of how we behave, 
of how we view the world," wrote the 
former minister of communications, Flora 
MacDonald, in the policy paper that accom- 
panied the bill when it was originally intro- 
duced into the House of Commons last 
year. ‘‘It plays a major role in defining our 
national, regional, local and even our imdi- 
vidual identities. It is, therefore, much 
more than just another industry." 

The policy paper does not hide the gov- 
ernment's concern about what some Cana- 
dians regard as the ‘‘cultural imperialism”’ 
of the U.S. It says that the "lack of an 
international flavor, particularly on En- 
glish-language television, is of concern be- 
cause Canada is an internationalist country, 
a trading country, a nation of immigrants 
and descendants of immigrants and a coun- 
try of global interests." And while an in- 
creased number of co-production agree- 
ments in film and television, ''notably with 
France and the United Kingdom," have 
helped mitigate the problem, the paper 
says, ‘‘our television screens remain almost 
exclusively North American, a paradox in a 
world of instant global telecommunica- 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
102 


tion,” 

American producers have not raised any 
alarms about the policy and legislation, ap- 
parently determined to avoid the danger of 
fanning Canadian emotions further over the 
issue. And last week, Jack Valenti, presi- 
dent of the Motion Picture Association of 
America, whose members produce pro- 
grams that are exported, was low key in 
discussing the matter. ''Other countries 
around the world have subsidized the pro- 
duction of progarming, and we have no 
objection to that," he said. ''That's the 
policy of a sovereign nation.’’ Valenti said 
he would object only if the subsidy funds 
came out of taxes оп American product, 
and that, he said, would not be the case 
under the Canadian plan. 

However, there remains the possibility of 
conflict. Valenti said he had “по right to 
tell Canadians about Canadian content— 
unless the policy is aimed at preventing the 
entry of other countries’ programing.” And 
the Canadian plan is aimed at least in part in 
substituting Canadian-content for American 
programing. Given the Free Trade Agree- ' 
ment signed by the U.S. and Canada, Va- 
lenti said, ''all barriers should come 
down." Left unsaid by Valenti in discuss- 
ing the Canadian plan is the confidence of 
American producers in competing in Cana- 
da. Said one representative of the produc- 
tion community: **We're confident the pop- 


ularity of our programing will allow us to 
compete with subsidized Canadian pro- 
graming.'" 


ag 


The bill and policy statement proved con- 
troversial last year, with members of the 
opposition parties—the Liberals and New 
Democratic Party—denouncing them as not 
sufficiently nationalistic, as likely to lead to 
less, not more, Canadian content in radio 
and television programing. The Canadian 
Association of Broadcasters also opposed 
the bill, for reasons of their own. CAB 
President Michael McCabe has described a 
provision the government calls “а system 
of preference — incentive" " —broadcasters 
would be penalized for failing to meet a 
specified quota of Canadian programing— 
as ''a system of fines.’’ He also said some 
portions of the bill would politicize the Ca- 
nadian Radio-Television and Telecommuni- 
cations Commission; it would be made sub- 
ject to direction by the cabinet, for 
instance, and its actions would be subject to 
cabinet review. The CRTC itself found a 
number of reasons for testifying against the 
bill in committee. Still, the bill easily 
passed the lower house. But it died in the 
Senate on Oct. 1, 1988, when Prime Minis- 
ter Brian Mulroney called the national elec- 
tions, and Parliament was dissolved. 

With the victory of the Mulroney govern- 
ment on Nov. 21, 1980, reintroduction of 
the measure became a certainty. The final 
form of the bill will await the appointment, 
possibly later this month, of a new minister 
of communications to succeed MacDonald, 
who was defeated in her reelection bid. 
And the CAB has been lobbying govern- 
ment ministers heavily in an effort to secure 
amendments. How successfully remains to 
be seen. The acting minister of communica- 
tions, Senator Lowell Murray of Nova Sco- 
tia, said in a question period in the House of 
Commons that the bill, when reintroduced, 
would be identical to the original. And offi- 
cials of the Department of Communications 
expect that to be the case. But McCabe last 
week remained hopeful some changes 
would be made. 

Among those elements of Canadian soci- 
ety hopeful that changes, if any, are minor, 
is the ubiquitous cable television industry; 
its members serve almost 70% of all Cana- 
dian households. William Allen, a spokes- 
man for the Canadian Cable Television As- 
sociation, said the industry is ‘‘generally 
positive" regarding the measure. Among 
other things, it would treat all methods of 
program distribution as ‘‘technology neu- 
tral’: It would define broadcasting as апу 
transmission of programs, whether or not 
encrypted’’ (including pay-per-view but not 
video on demand). The aim would be to 
remove any legislative or regulatory bias 
for or against a technology. As a result, 
said CCTA spokeswoman Nancy Bickford, 
all television program distributors—wheth- 
er employing satellite-to-home, multipoint 
distribution, cable service or any other ser- 
vice—would operate ‘‘оп a level playing 
field.” 

What’s more, the bill would permit cable 
companies to own and originate programs. 
The permission is not unqualified, howev- 


er. For instance, the bill would empower 
the CRTC to mediate between distribution 
and programing services. It would also au- 
thorize the CRTC to require distribution 
services to carry specified programing on 
terms it sets. And the programing that cable 
companies originated would be ‘‘on such 
terms as are conducive to the achievement 
of the objectives of the broadcasting poli- 
cy." 
As those provisions suggest, freedom of 
expression is not the bill's driving force, 
even if a provision says the measure is to be 
"construed and applied in a manner consis- 
tent with the freedom of expression and 
joumalistic, creative and programing inde- 
pendence enjoyed by broadcasting under- 
takings.” Nor even if the Canadian Charter 
of Rights and Freedoms adopted in 1982 as 
an amendment to the country's constitution 
guarantees Canadians ''freedom of press 
and other media of communication.” Rath- 
er, as stated in one of the bill’s sections, the 
bill’s aim is to insure that ‘each element of 
the Canadian broadcasting system shall 
contribute in an appropriate manner to the 
creation and presentation of Canadian pro- 
graming, making maximum use of Canadi- 
an creative and other resources.” 

о 
At present, Canada's response to the ques- 
tion of how to keep Canada Canada through 
broadcasting is found in the rules of the 
CRTC. The commission requires Canadian 
television stations to devote 60% of their 
programing throughout the day and 50% of 
it in prime time to Canadian material. But 
the CRTC permits sports and news pro- 
graming to be counted against those limits. 
As for drama—which the government sees 
as the key issue in broadcasting policy into 
the next century—that is another matter. 
Less than 10% of such programing in prime 
time on English-language stations is Cana- 
dian. The government ascribes that condi- 
tion primarily to cost. The policy paper 
says that imported programing, most of it 
American, is available at only 5% ю 10% 
of the cost to produce or acquire Canadian 
programs of similar quality. The paper also 
cites ''the extensive marketing of American 
shows and their stars”’ that, it says, ‘spills 
over in Canada" through newspaper and 
magazine features and radio and television 
talk shows featuring celebrities. 

French-language television programing is 
another matter. The policy paper notes that 
French-language broadcasters have pro- 
duced a wide variety of popular and rela- 
tively low-cost programs. But, the paper 
adds, those programs must compete against 
high-budget American-produced shows, 
some of them dubbed. And although Cana- 
dian productions continue to ‘dominate the 
overall French-language audience ratings, 
this is not necessarily a permanent situa- 
tion," the paper says, adding: “Only by 
producing more shows with better produc- 
tion qualities and bigger budgets will Cana- 
dian productions be able to find a continu- 
ing mass audience." 

The radio audience apparently is not in- 
undated with American programing. More 
than 97% of all radio listening is to Canadi- 
an stations. Апа the policy statement says 
there is an abundance of programing for 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
103 


specíalized tastes. The issue in radio—as it 
is in the U.S.—is how to stay financially 
sound, particularly for the 40% of the sta- 
tions whose margins are very slim, most of 
them in medium- and small-sized markets. 
But the paper says that АМ radio broadcast- 
ers are embracing new technologies—such 
as АМ stereo—to regain listeners lost to 
FM radio over the last 10 years. The policy 
paper acknowledges one weakness in the 
regulatory scheme woven around broad- 
casting. It says that the CRTC has attempt- 
ed through regulation to maintain a wide 
variety of formats to assure listeners ‘а full 
range of choices." Although the regulation 
has been ‘‘largely effective," the paper 
says, ''the regulatory process is extremely 
detailed.” 
o 

The government, under the policy state- 
ment, is distributing the $210 million ear- 
marked for strengthening Canadian pro- 
gram content in the following manner: 

W The Canadian Broadcasting Corp., 
which is the principal instrument of Canadi- 
an broadcasting policy and which now op- 
erates on a budget of some $1 billion, will 
receive an additional $110 million over the 
next four years. Some $68 million will be 
used to help CBC increase its Canadian 
content on primetime English television 
from about 75% to its stated goal of 95%. 
The remainder will be used to increase the 
budget for French-language programing. 
The legislation will also contain provisions 
designed to modify the management struc- 
ture of the network and strengthen its finan- 
cial accountability to Parliament. 

B Telefilm Canada, a government-funded 
organization that finances the production of 
Canadian films and television programs 
will be allowed an additional $15 million in 
each of the next four years. Its current 
budget is $92 million. The new money will 
be applied to the Canadian Broadcast Pro- 
gram Development fund—which totaled 
$53 million in 1988-89—for the production 
of French- and English-language television 
programing. The funds will be divided 
equally between the two services rather 
than on the one-third French and two-thirds 
English basis that has been customary. 

E Some $26 million will be spent over 
the next four years on the capital costs 
needed to make broadcasting services avail- 
able to Canadians in remote communities. 
About $17 million will be spent to extend 
cable service to some 250,000 Canadians. 
The remainder will cover the cost of an 
independent satellite distribution system to 
deliver aboriginal programing produced un- 
der the Northem Native Broadcast Access 
System, which was established for the ben- 
efit of northern audiences. 

Nor would that be all. The Broadcasting 
Bill mandates the establishment of ‘‘alter- 
native television programing services.” 
These would be alternatives to CBC broad- 
casts, which are viewed as being designed 
primarily for mass audiences. The legisla- 
tion says the ''alternative" programing 
"should be innovative and complementary 
to [mass-appeal] programing...cater to 
tastes and interests not adequately provided 
for.. reflect Canada's regions and multicul- 
tural nature...be acquired rather than pro- 


duced by those [alternative] services and be 
made available throughout Canada by the 
most cost-efficient means." The alternative 
programing would be in English; French- 
speaking audiences already receive special- 
interest programing. The costs, and how 
they would be met, have yet to be deter- 
mined. But the government believes the 
new service could be operational in two 
years. 

Then, too, there was the announcement 
in May 1988 that the government would 
increase its support for the Canadian film 
industry by $169 million over the next five 
years. That additional help is also seen as 
contributing to the broadcasting policy aim 
of more and better Canadian programing. 

But if the tactic in mobilizing public 
broadcasting for the effort to reduce the 
heavy diet of American programing avail- 
able in Canada is to spend money on Cana- 
dian material, the tactic in mobilizing pri- 
vate broadcasters is to confront them with 
the possible loss of same. For the bill would 
provide the CRTC with a wide range of 
regulatory instruments designed to ensure 
that private broadcasters play their mandat- 
ed role of contributing *'significantly to the 
creation and presentation of Canadian pro- 
graming, and [being] responsive to the 
evolving demands of the public." And one 
of the instruments—enabling the CRTC to 
charge a license fee tied to performance in 
terms of providing specific kinds of Canadi- 
an programing—could serve as the basis for 
what CAB's McCabe refers to as ‘а system 
of fines." 

The CRTC would be directed to examine 
the proposal and develop it in detail. But 
the policy paper spells out one way it might 
work: In addition to the basic Canadian 
content requirements, specific performance 
targets would be set in certain program ar- 
eas. And to the degree a broadcaster failed 
to meet a target —say, five hours each week 
of primetime English-language drama—the 
broadcaster would be docked a proportion- 
ate share of an assessment established at the 
beginning of each year. The assessment 
could be based on a progressive formula, 
calculated as a percentage of gross reve- 
nues. What the government would do with 
the funds collected is not yet clear. But the 
policy paper says the funds could be used 
either to reward stations that exceed their 
targets, or to increase Telefilm's budget for 
the Canadian Broadcast Program Develop- 
ment Fund, or both. 

The proposal is one of those opposed by 
the CAB, one it hopes is not in the version 
of the bill yet to appear. 

о 


Another provision that both the САВ and 
the CRTC oppose is one to which American 
broadcasters can relate. It is designed to 
insure that the broadcasting system is repre- 
sentative of the overall makeup of Canadian 
society. It says that the system should 
"strive, through its operations and pro- 
graming, to reflect the circumstances and 
aspirations of Canadian men and women, 
including the linguistic duality and multi- 
cultural nature of Canadian society, and the 
special place of aboriginal peoples within 
that society.’’ The provision constitutes ап 
equal employment opportunity mandate. 


McCabe said existing Canadian law already 
subjects broadcasters to EEO obligations. 
Including the requirement in the Broadcast- 
ing Bill, he added, gives the enforcement 
responsibility to an agency not equipped to 
handle it. CRTC Chairman Andre Bureau 
has said the provision would, in effect, 
commission the CRTC to be the "'general 
manager” of all broadcast stations. 

Yet another provision to which American 
broadcasters can relate but which has not 
raised much of a fuss—probably because it 
is lifted from the existing Broadcasting 
Act—is included in the same section as the 
one dealing with employment, and says: 
“The programing provided by the Canadian 
broadcasting system should...provide a rea- 
sonable opportunity for the public to be 
exposed to the expression of differing views 
on matters of public concern." American 
broadcasters would recognize that as the 
fairness doctrine, which the FCC repealed 
but which some in Congress appear deter- 
mined to codify in law. 

о 


How effective Canadian Voices: Canadian 
Choices is in achieving the government's 
aim of infusing Canadian broadcasting with 
a fresh and continuing stream of native pro- 
graming remains to be seen. American 
product may yet continue to dominate the 
prime-time schedules of English-language 
stations. Perhaps an even larger question is 
what shape the Canadian broadcasting sys- 
tem will ultimately take, considering the 
conflicting pressures to which it is being 
subjected. À paragraph in the policy state- 
ment encapsulates the dilemma: ‘Тһе ac- 
cessibility of the broadcast media to all 
Canadians, the way in which broadcasting 
reflects Canadians to themselves, and the 
famness with which it handles different 
points of view are primary concerns of the 
Broadcasting Bill. Individuals and minor- 
ities must be protected from distorted ste- 
reotyping, and their rights of access and 
redress secured. At the same time, these 
rights must be balanced against every citi- 
zen's right of free expression, and against 
the freedom of programing expression that 
an independent broadcasting community 
must enjoy." 

American broadcasters and the policy 
makers with whom they deal have long 
confronted a similar dilemma as they at- 
tempted to square the public interest stan- 
dard that undergirds the Communications 
Act with the First Amendment. Increasing- 
ly over the years, the U.S., through the 
FCC, has struck from the books regulations 
broadcasters and their lawyers used to refer 
to as ‘‘shackles,’’ though the public interest 
standard remains. And Canada might fol- 
low the American lead. А lawyer in Van- 
couver, Jonathan Festinger, has been ex- 
pressing views that have a familiar ring to 
Americans. Writing in a Canadian maga- 
zine last fall, Festinger said Broadcast Bill 
provisions like the one requiring broadcast- 
ers to afford “а reasonable opportunity for 
the public to be exposed to the expression 
of differing views?’ ‘‘discourage rather than 
encourage the presentation of controversial 
issues or programing.’’ He also said that 
“the omnipresent threat of CRTC interven- 
tion creates a ‘chilling effect’ which runs 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
104 


See ec 


contrary to any intention to foster an unin- 
hibited marketplace of ideas.” 

However, Festinger’s remains a lonely 
voice in Canada. And what Canada regards 
as at stake is nothing less than its ‘‘national, 
regional, local and even...individual identi- 
ties." О 


Distanis 1G MAUS 


The death last week cf Japanese fr 

peror Hirohito has already spawned а 
program co-venture: Ine BBC oro 
duced documentary Hirohito: Behind 
the Myth. Partially funded бу а 19-sta- 
tion partnership of US sublic TY 
broadcasters, National Program Part- 
ners l, the hour-long piece is sched 
uled to ай on PAS м March. МРРІ nas 
made two other co-production 
ments for 1989. s 60-minute docu 
mentary with the UK's Yorkshire TV, 
Lord of Lions: Adamson of Africa. and 
a series of six 30-m ule ар es with 
London's Colstar Communications enti- 
tled In Search of Wildlife with David 
Shepherd. 


md 
vosi 


О 


Worldvision Enterprises will distribute 
overseas CBS's live 1988/89 Presiden- 
tial Inaugural Gala, this Thursday, 
Jan. 19, 8-10 p.m. ET. The special, 
which has already been soid in Cana- 
da, Australia, Japan and New Zealand, 
includes performances by Frank Sina- 
tra and Julio Iglesias, and is produced 
by Don Mischer with David J. Gold- 
berg. 
о 


The Mike Tyson-Frank Bruno world 
heavyweight title fight on Feb. 26 will air 
on Rupert Murdoch's Sky Television, 
which has obtained exclusive live TV 
rights for the UK and Ireland. Sched- 
uled for launch in early February, the 
satelite channel is expected to be 
available to some 600,000 cable sub- 
scribers at the time of the fight, accord- 
ing to Sky, as well as to individual dish 
owners and several dozen other closed 
circuit locations. 
о 


А new wrestling show packaged Бу 15- 
year-old Canadian Aaron Weiss will be 
syndicated by Toronto-based Ray- 
mond International. Weiss, an expert on 
the sport who has been featured as co- 
host of a wrestling show on Toronto 
CITY-Tv, an interviewer on Rogers Ca- 
ble's Sportsweek and commentator of 
other wrestling programs, holds sole 
Canadian TV rights for wrestling organi- 
zation International Championship 
Wrestling, whose wrestlers will be fea- 
tured on the one-hour shows. Two of 
the hours have already been taped, 
with Weiss as producer, host and ring- 
side commentator, and will be syndi- 
cated as specials. 


ee BROADCASTING 


357 
172 


N (CCB) Capital Cities ABC .... 
N (CBS) CBS 
A (CCU) Clear Channe n 
А (НТС) Heritage Media .......... 
O (JCOR) Jacor Commun. 
O (LINB) LIN 
О (MALR) Matrite.. 
О (MALRA) Mairite 'A.. 
O (OBCCC) Olympia Broad..... 
О (OSBN) Osborn Commun... 
О (OCOAC) Outlet Commun... 
A (PR) Price Commun.. 

O (SAGB) Sage Broadcasting. 
O (SCRP) Scripps Howard 
O (SUNNC) SunGroup inc. 
О (TLMD) Telemundo ...... 
O (TVXGC) TVX Broadcast 
О (UTVI) United Television ...... 


Wed 


Jan il 


13 
4 
6 

71 

10 

10 


24 


3 
71 


27 


3/4 363 


34 


7/8 
34 
12 
12 
3/8 


1/4 


5/8 
1/2 


1/4 
3/4 
58 
1/2 


170 
13 
4 

6 
7 
10 
10 
3 

f 
23 


26 


Closing Closing 


Wed 


3/4 
78 
7/8 
5/8 
5/8 
78 
5/8 
3/8 


1/2 
1/4 
5/8 
12 
3/4 
3/4 
3/4 
5/8 
3/4 


Stockalndex 


Ме 
Jan 4 Change Change Капо (000.000) 


6 
1 


78 
78 
1/4 
18 
3/8 
18 


1/4 
3/4 


3/4 
12 


3/4 


Percent 


01.64 
01.09 
= 06.30 
05.40 
01.88 
— 00.52 
— 01.17 
00.00 
00.00 
- 03.33 
03.22 
00.00 
00.00 
- 01.04 
28.57 
00.00 
00.00 
02.80 


PIE 


21 
9 
23 
6 
-15 
45 


-22 
-14 


45 


Market 
Capitali- 


Zation 


5.787 
4,082 
50 
54 


59 
9 
301 


GE BROADCASTING WITH OTHER MAJOR INTERESTS И 


(BLC) A.H. Belo... 

(ASTV) Amer. бой Я ту 
(AFL) American Ратйу...... 
(ACCMA) Assoc. Commun. 
(BMAC) BMA Corp... 
(CCN) Chris-Cratt ..... 
(DNB) Dun & Bradstreet...... 
(QUCO) Ourham Corp. 
(СС!) Gannett Co.. 
(GY) GenCorp .... 
(GMXC) GMX Commun........ 
{САСС) Great Amer. Comm.. 
(JP) Jefferson-Pilot .. 
(KRI) Knight-Ridder.. 
(LEE) Lee Enterprises. 
(LC) Liberty ........... 
(MHP) McGraw-Hill 
(MEGA) Media General 
(MOP) Meredith Corp.. 
(MCG) Mich. Energy... ч 
(MMEDC) Multimedia............ 
(NYTA) New York Times....... 
(NWS) News Corp. Ltd. 
(PARC) Park Commun. " 
(PLTZ) Pulitzer Publishing... 
(REL) Reliance Dod Hold.. 
(RTRSY) Reuters Ltd. . 
(SKHA) Selkirk... €: 
(STAUF) Staffer! mri! 
(TMC) Times Мигог...... 
(TMCI) TM Communications 
(TRB) Тиое....................... 
(TBSA) Turner Bcstg. “A ..... 
(T6SB) Turner Bcstg. 'В°..... 
(WPOB) Washington Post... 


PP»PPZOZO-SdOZOOZ»P»Ozz»zzzzzoozzozzoozoz 


(SP) Aaron Spelling Prod.... 
(ALLT) All American TV. 
(BRRS) Barris Indus 
(KO) Coca-Coia........ 
(CLR) Color Systems ........... 
(КРЕ) Columbia Pic. Ent. ... 
(САУМ) СУМ Cos. ........ 
(DEG) De Laurentiis Ent...... 
{ОСР!) dick clark prod. ........ 
(DIS) Disney 
(DJ) Dow Jones & Co. 
(FNNI) Financial News... 
(FE) Fries Entertain..... 
(GW) Gulf + Western. 
(QNTX) Hal Roach... 
(HHH) Heritage Entertain. .... 
(HSN) Home Shopping Net. 
(KWP) King World................ 
(LAUR) Laurel Entertain. 
(LT) Lorimar-Telepictures 
(MCA) MCA .. е 

(MGM) MGM UA ‘Commun. . 
(NHI) Nelson Holdings... 
(NWE) New World Enter. 


PDPZZPOZPPOZPOZZOPOZP ZOOO 


23 


13 
38 
33 
22 
54 
33 
35 
17 


9 
31 
45 
26 
37 
67 
35 
30 
29 
75 
27 
17 
27 
25 

4 
30 
49 


130 


33 


37 
19 
18 


207 


5/8 


1/32 


78 
12 
14 
1/8 
3/4 
1/4 
5/8 
12 


116 


3/8 
3/8 
38 


3/8 
1/4 


3/4 
58 
1/8 
12 
5/8 


38 
1/2 


1/2 


3:8 
1/4 
1/4 
3/4 
3/4 


23 


38 
17 
14 


1/32 
7/8 


1/2 
3/4 
5/8 
12 


1/4 
38 
3/4 
5/8 
3/8 
18 


1/8 
12 
1/2 
78 
3/4 
3/4 


5/8 
3/4 
1/2 


зв 
9/32 


5/8 
5/8 


78 207 3/4 


PROGRAMING 


78 
3/4 
3/4 
1/2 


78 


7/8 
3/8 
3/4 


12 
12 


№ ь о 
оњ aons 3 = 


> 
> 


3/8 
78 
3/8 
58 
34 
3/8 


2 


2 


5/8 


12 
1/8 
3/8 
18 
1/4 
5/8 
12 
1/16 


1/4 
5/8 
38 
18 
38 


18 
1/4 


5/16 
1/4 
34 
12 


18 


02.71 
00.00 
00.00 
06.94 
02.30 
01.72 
02.09 
02.30 
00.00 
05 26 
00.00 
01.35 
00.00 
00.B1 
02.34 
02.74 
01.70 
00.00 
0207 
00.42 
00.49 
- 01.34 
05 22 
00.93 
01.50 
- 02.70 
04.34 
00.00 
00.00 
00.00 
z 11.11 
~ 01.97 
1205 
28.20 


9 


249 

2 
1,123 
367 
348 
482 
8.322 
280 
5.768 
555 


555 


246 
1.238 
2.580 

645 


9.098 
2,913 
88 

13 
2.584 
25 

7 

424 
778 

7 

619 
3.471 
701 
13 
27 


о2 000002020 


Clasing Closing 


Wed 

Jan И 

(NNET) Nostalgia Network ..... 1116 
(OPC) Orion Pictures... 14 1/2 
(MOVE) Peregrine Entertain. 1316 
(PLA) Playboy Ent 12 34 
(QVCN) QVC Network... А 9 38 
(RVCC) Reeves Commun..... 5 12 
(RPICA) Republic Ріс. ‘А’... 7 1/4 
(RPICB) Republic Pic. ‘В: 6 34 
(SMNI) Sat. Music Net.. 5 14 
(WCi) Warner.............. mem oF 1/2 
(МОМЕ) Westwood Опе....... 8 1/4 


Wed 


Net Percent 
Jan 4 Change Change Ratio (000.000) 


116 
5/8 
3/4 
wa 

1 1/4 
1 

1/16 

7/8 
1 


00.00 
00.00 
05.55 
05.15 
08.69 
– 06 38 
20.83 
17.39 
01.20 
02 38 
= 10.81 


PIE 


12 
-39 
74 
-19 
27 
80 
48 
47 
20 
11 


Market 
Capitali- 


zation 


Dg ggg ت‎ 


а 
250 
2 
119 
94 
69 
30 
5 
47 
4.730 
118 


——є-ГБЕ- = ———-Ә ee 


»ozoozoozzooo 


личи 11511 


Ozzzozoo2d4o»ozo»oo» 


(АМЕА) А.М.Е. 1пс............... 13 
(АСАР) Andrews Group ...... 3 
(BSIM) Burnup & Sims ....... 17 
(CQ) Comsat... - 26 
(FCB) Foote Cone М в „2% 
(GREY) Grey Advertising..... 119 
(IDBX) DB Communications 3 
(IPG) Interpublic Group ....... 37 
(OGIL) Oglivy Group... at 732 
(OMCM) Omnicom Group.... 19 
(SAA) Saatchi & Saatchi ..... 18 
(TLMT) Telemation.... 1 
(UNV) Unitel Video ... 12 


(АТМ) Acton Corp.... 11 
(ATCMA) Amer. TV & Comm. 31 
(CTEX) C Tec Согр............... 45 
(СМС) Cablevision Sys. ‘A. 30 
(CNCAA) Cente! Cable. 39 
(СМТ) Cente! Corp.... 53 
(CMCSA) Comcast... = 16 
(FAL) Falcon Cable Systems 20 
(JOIN) Jones Intercable....... 13 
(МНРО) Maclean Hunter 'Х’ 14 
(АСІ.А) Rogers Commun. ‘A 77 
(RCI.B) Rogers Commun.'B' 66 
(TCAT) TCA Cable ТУ.......... 32 
(TCOMA) Tele-Commun 26 
(TL) Time Inc................ . 105 
(UACI) United Art. Commun. 28 
(UCT) United Cable TV........ 34 
(VIA) Масомт.............. 31 
(WU) Western Union 1 
(WSMCA) WestMarc .... 17 


1/8 


12 


12 
3 
18 
27 
22 
112 


27 
19 
18 

1 
12 


12 
31 
47 


1/4 


3/8 
1/8 
3/4 
3/4 
5/8 


1/8 
14 
5 12 
12 
1/4 


3/8 


to № 


02.94 
03.44 
— 04.05 
- 02.76 
02 73 
06 25 
-0135 
00.68 
20.37 
02.58 
01.35 
00 00 
03 00 


13 
3,372 
250 
630 
975 
2,337 
754 
128 
167 
1.041 
952 
816 
386 
3,991 
5,144 
1.149 
1.281 
1,680 
39 
247 


es ELECTRONICS MANUFACTURING ИИ 


N (MMM) 3M......... 61 18 
N (ARV) Arvin Industrie 19 58 
© (CCBL) C-Cor Electronics... 21 12 
М (СНУ) Сһугол........................ 4 

А (CXC) СМХ Согр.. 13/16 
A (COH) Сони......... п 42 
N (EK) Eastman Kodak. 44 78 
N (GRL) Gen. Instrument . 26 1/4 
М (GE) General Electric 44 38 
О (СЕТЕ) Geotel Inc.. 5/8 
М (HRS) Harris Corp.. 28 1/4 
О (ITEL) це! Corp... 19 14 
М (MAI) WA Com. Inc B 78 
М (IV) Mark iV indus... 11 12 
О (MCDY) Microdyne .. 3 38 
O (MCOM) Midwest Commu 4 34 
М (MOT) Motorola... 42 

N (OAK) Oak Industries........... 78 
А (РР!) Pico Products. 2 38 
N (SFA) Sci-Atianta 12 7/8 
N (SNE) Sony Corp... 59 7/8 
N (TEK) Tektronix 21 12 
О (TLCR) Telecrafter .. 4 

N (VAR) Varian Assoc. 28 1/8 
N (WX) Westinghouse 53 1/2 
М (ZE) Zenith ............. 19 12 
Standard & Poor's 400.......... 326.29 


62 


42 
1 

2 
12 
57 
21 

4 
27 
53 
19 


14 


78 
12 
3/8 
7/8 
18 
5/16 
12 
78 
3/8 
12 


78 
38 
1/8 


323.44 


I 


i 


1 1/8 
58 
12 


1/16 
1/4 
3/8 
38 
38 
116 
58 
78 


— 01 80 
03.28 
02.38 
00.00 
08.33 

~ 02.12 

~ 00.82 


15 


13.905 
373 
43 

40 

۳ 

20 
15.208 
877 


T-Toronto, A-American. N-NYSE, О-ОТС. Bid prices and common A stock used unless otherwise 
noted. P/E ratios are based on earnings per share for the previous 12 months as published by 


Standard & Poor's or as obtamed by Broadcasting's own research. 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
105 


Miami's WSVN(TV) off to strong start with news 


Statlon, left without network affiliation, 
programs six and a half hours of news 


It is now two weeks since the affiliation 
changes of five Miami television stations in 
the Miami area have officially taken place. 
So far, it appears that wSVN(TV), the inde- 
pendent left without a network affiliation 
after NBC bought WTVXTV), the former 
CBS affiliate, is challenging network affili- 
ates there in various dayparts. With six- 
and-a-half hours of news, an in-house pro- 
duced tabloid news program titled Inside 
Story and a strong 8 p.m. movie lineup, the 
station has posted strong numbers. 

In its first week and a half, Jan. 2-10, 
Inside Story, fashioned after Fox's A Cur- 
rent Affair, averaged a 10.1 rating and a 16 
share at 7-7:30 p.m., making it number two 
in the time period behind Wheel of Fortune 
(on wPLG[TV], the ABC affiliate), which 
averaged а 15,7/25 during the same time. 
In third place in the time period, three rat- 
ing points behind Inside Story, was A Cur- 
rent Affair on WTV), averaging an 8/13. 

WSVvN's movie at 8 p.m. has kept расе 
with prime time programing on the affili- 
ates, outperforming at least one of the net- 
work affiliates each night during the first 
week and beating all three affiliates on Fri- 
day, Jan. 6, with the theatrical ‘‘Jaws.’’ 
WSVN's prime time movie, at 8-10 p.m., 
has averaged an 8.7/13 from Jan. 2 through 
Jan. 10. Leading all stations during the 
prime time hours is WTVI, the new NBC 
affiliate, which is averaging a 15.9/24. 
ABC aífiliate WPLG is second with an 
11.2/17, and fourth, behind WSVN, is the 
CBS affiliate, WCIX, with a 5.9/9. 

WPLG, not involved in the shuffle, was 
the number one rated station in the market 
before the switch and has maintained its top 
ranking. The station consistently wins, or 
finishes a close second, in the 7-9 a.m. time 
period with Good Morning America. Jan. 2- 
10, СМА averaged a 4.3/21, just ahead of 
The Today Show on WTV) which averaged а 
4.2/21. WsvN's locally produced Today т 
Florida averaged a 1.8/9; fourth in the time 
period is wCIX's CBS This Morning with a 
0.9/5. 

On the strength of The Oprah Winfrey 
Show at 4-5 p.m. and its hour-and-a-half of 
local news at 5-6:30 p.m., WPLG handily 
wins the early fringe time periods. Oprah is 
averaging a 10.1/27 in the time period 
against WSVN's Divorce Court and People's 
Court, which average a 7,4/19. At 4-5 
p.m., WTVJ programs Family Feud and The 
Gong Show, which average 2.7/8, and WCIX 
schedules Benson and Family Ties, which 
are averaging 2.1/6. 

“Тһе rea! shocker [coming out of the 
station shuffle],’’ said John Garwood, gen- 
eral manager, WPLG, ''has been the total 


demise of the CBS network news on 
wcix.’’ Indeed, a strong performer prior to 
the switch, CBS Evening News With Dan 
Rather has sunk to a dismal third place on 
WCIX. Since the station switch, the CBS 
news, at 6:30-7 p.m., has averaged a 3.5/6 
against number one ABC with а 13,9/23 
and NBC Nightly News, which has aver- 
aged an 8.5/14. 

*"The other big surprise,” said Garwood, 
“tis how well wSvN has held up, although 
our research indicated that their prospects 
looked good especially at the start.'" Gar- 
wood believes it is still too early to draw 
solid conclusions, but he feels the wSvN 
strategy is a solid one. “Гуе scoffed all 
along at those people who were predicting 
WSVN's demise," he said. ''They've got 
solid news people and a strong signal and 


they were absolutely right to capitalize on 
their strengths rather than follow the path of 
the traditional independent by going after 
kids and teens. Kids and teens were never a 
big part of their audience to begin with.” 

There is speculation in the market that 
WSVN will be hard pressed to maintain the 
quality of the movies it has aired thus far, 
and even the performance of The Arsenio 
Hail Show, which has outperformed The 
Tonight Show, has been called temporary. 
“At first, the critics said we were finished 
as soon as we lost our affiliation," said 
Bert Medina, marketing research and cable 
relations manager, wSVN. "Now we are 
hearing that our success won't last." We're 
just trying to remain humble and continue 
programing as effectively as we possibly 
сап.’ 


Lom шьш т шыннын кой 
NCTA's Mooney blames TV for low level of 


public debate in campaign 


Cable spokesman, in speech, says 
cable will support must carry 


The cable industry's chief spokesman last 
week blamed television (both broadcast and 
cable) for the ‘‘extraordinarily low level of 
public discourse’’ in the 1988 presidential 
election and said the medium was shirking 
its *‘social responsibility.” 

In a speech before the Washington Met- 
ropolitan Cable Club, National Cable Tele- 
vision Association President James P. Moo- 
пеу also said the association was willing to 
work with broadcastets in winning passage 
of a must-carry law requiring cable systems 
to сату local television signals, and he 
charged that telephone industry arguments 
for eliminating the statutory ban on tele- 
phone-cable crossownership amount to a 
"'scam."' 


Mooney 


Broadcasung Jan 16 1989 
106 
I 


And, apparently reacting to the growing 
сопсет about rising cable subscription 
fees, Mooney argued that cable was a 
“good” consumer value and has made a 
"net positive" contribution to television. 

“Чл the age of the daily sound bite, we 
should not be surprised that we get cam- 
paigns built around such themes as whether 
Michael Dukakis is a pal of Willie Horton 
or whether George Bush is too preppy to be 
President," said Mooney, who spent 
10уеагѕ as a congressional aide prior to 
joining NCTA in 1981. ‘‘Is it conceivable 
that we could have had a campaign like that 
without television? No way. The print press 
would have crucified the candidates. But 
the evening news doesn’t just cover the 
campaign; to a very significant extent, it 
shapes it, and to some extent even controls 
it.” 

Mooney expressed concern that televi- 
sion’s power to trivialize may extend be- 
yond politics. Television ‘‘should be more 
than just a business,” he said. ''Television 
has a social responsibility, too, and a vigor- 
ous and intelligent political process isn't the 
only thing which can be degraded if that 
social responsibility is neglected. The effect 
much of television is having on politics is, 1 
fear, a metaphor for neglect of that respon- 
sibility, and an ill wind no one in the televi- 
sion business may responsibly ignore." 

Three years ago, the NCTA was a party 
to a compromise with broadcasters on new 
must-carry rules that were adopted by the 
FCC. However, a federal appeals court 
struck down the rules as a violation of the 
First Amendment as it had the FCC’s origi- 
nal set of rules a year earlier. 

NCTA has said before that it would work 


with broadcasters in writing а must-carry 
law that could pass a constitutional muster. 
But last week's speech was the first indica- 
tion the association was willing to support 
actively must-carry legislation. '*We're 
willing to sit down with [the National Asso- 
ciation of Broadcasters] and the National 
Association of Public Television Stations 
and work out a way to put what everybody 
agrees was a workable rule back into force, 
this time on the statute books, this time 
with a congressional mandate," Mooney 
said. “Тһе instant we get the signal from 
Congress, we will be at the table, and we 
have every reason to believe the negotiation 
will not need to be protracted.” 

(Asked to elaborate on the statement af- 
terwards, Mooney said it was the first time 
he has "'flatly and unconditionally said we 
would go for a staiute.'" He said he would 
be “ир on the НШ? working for its pas- 
sage. [n the past, he said, all that he has 
said was that he would consider supporting 
passage. Ап option would have been for 
NCTA to have ‘‘simply consented" to the 
legislation. He also said he was uncon- 
сете about amendments detrimental to 
cable being attached to a must-carry bill, 
although he said cable's support for the bill 
would be conditioned on ‘‘everybody pro- 
tecting it from extraneous stuff.’’) 

The bulk of Mooney’s speech was direct- 
ed at undercutting the telephone companies’ 
arguments for repealing the ban against 
telephone companies providing video ser- 
vices in their telephone service areas. Con- 
trary to the claims of the telephone indus- 
try, Mooney said, telephone industry 
involvement in television programing is not 
necessary to bring consumers the benefits 
of such new technologies as fiber optics, 
high-definition television and, possibly, 
"'video-on-demand.'' The cable is at least 
as capable as the telephone industry in pro- 
viding such services, he said. 

“Тһе truth of the matter, then, is that 
what the phone companies are promising is 
not even near-magic, but rather a one-wire 
world that cannot be justified either in 
terms of public economy or unique ser- 
vices," Mooney said. ‘‘It is a scam, pre- 
mised not on technological wizardry, but on 
their own internal economic imperative." 

According to Mooney, the telephone 
companies want to enter the video business 
so they can justify the cost of replacing the 
copper wire in their networks with fiber 
optics. ‘‘Their accountants have been so 
successful in writing off their existing plant 
that their rate base is being threatened," he 
said. ‘‘Unless they can justify huge new 
capital expenditures for something, they're 
in danger of having to reduce their fees to 
telephone customers, and therefore their 
cash flows.” 

Mooney also argued that the bar to tele- 
phone entry must be maintained to preserve 
today’s diversity of information sources. 
‘‘ft would be catastrophic to the democratic 
values upon which this country is premised 
10 have only one principal provider of 
news, information and entertainment to the 
home,” he said. "But for now Рт going to 
stop here. The argument the telcos have 
made thus far falls of its own weight even 
before we enter Мг. Jefferson's territory. `’ 

Cable is a good value, Mooney said. 


“Тһе average cable home receives a 36- 
channel basic entertainment and informa- 
tion package at a monthly cost of $14.60,” 
he said. ‘‘Compare that to the average cost 
for a family of four to attend a two-hour 
movie at a local theater—$15.68 plus park- 
ing and baby-sitter. À typical household 
with a videocassette recorder currently pays 
$12 to $14 per month for the rental of five 
or six videotapes. Further, the average fam- 
ily of four spends $13.83 per month on 
assorted reading materials. Even the cost of 
a newspaper subscription alone averages 
$9.20 per month.” 

On the whole, Mooney said, cable has 
made a *'net positive difference'' to televi- 
sion. ''To the degree that there is available 
in quantity not just good television cover- 
age of the politics of their country, but also 
plentiful programing for children, and for 
people who revel in documentaries, and for 
people who want health information, and 
for senior citizens, and for people interested 
in community issues—cable has made near- 
ly all the difference.” С 


NBC's Wright 
says broadcast 
network still 

top priority 

in address to press, NBC president 
downplays cabie Olymplcs deal, says 


structure of affiliate compensation 
will remain basically same 


Cable television revenues will be an impor- 
tant supplemental stream of income for 
NBC in the next decade, network President 
Robert Wright told reporters last week at 
the NBC press tour in Los Angeles. How- 
ever, he insisted that over the same period 
"I don’t foresee cable revenues or any oth- 
er revenues being anywhere near as large as 
the network revenues." 

Wright also downplayed the scope of the 
network's deal with Cablevision resulting 
in some planned pay-per-view offerings for 
the 1992 summer Olympics from Barcelo- 
na, Spain. He also touched briefly on net- 
work compensation to broadcast affiliates, 
suggesting that future alterations were like- 
| 


According to Wright, network broadcast- 
ing will continue to be NBC's bread and 
butter business well into the 1990's. “I 
think the network is by far and away the 
most intelligent, the best place for us to 
continue to devote the vast majority of our 


Wright 


resources. And all we are trying to do on 
the cable side is, in many respects, to par- 
ticipate in areas where there are opportuni- 
ties to put on programs in time periods that 
are similar to the networks' for different 
kinds of audiences. 

*"There are approximately 19 cable net- 
works, and there are three national broad- 
cast networks plus Fox's part-time network, 
and the simple matter is that for us to isolate 
ourselves in our total resources and energy 
to only participating in one of those 23 
different networks doesn't make a lot of 
sense to me.” 

Addressing the 1992 Olympics PPV is- 
sue, Wright said that “еге will be approx- 
imately 100 million television homes by 
1992. What we are looking to do on the 
cable side is to deal with approximately 3 
million of those. Our approach is to offer 
multiple channels of Olympic coverage’’ to 
viewers who are “very, very avid sports 
enthusiasts. They either have an interest in 
a particular sport, or in all of them." 

However, there were conflicting reports 
last week as to the scope of the potential 
PPV audience for the Barcelona games. 
Wright talked about capturing three million 
PPV viewers, ''if it’s very successful." But 
other reports last week quoted Cablevision 
executives as saying that with some effort, 
the PPV venture might capture as many as 
10 million viewers from an estimated po- 
tential PPV audience of 30 million. 

Of a potential 2,000 hours of Olympic 
programing, Wright said, NBC will offer 
160 hours of coverage on the broadcast 
network. ‘We have another 1,800 hours, 
more or less,” he said. ‘And we're going 
to try to style that into other channels for 
people that want to get very in-depth on 
programing, to see complete events from 
beginning to end, and events that are orient- 
ed toward female viewers, different events 


War reporting. Veteran reporter-editor William J. Dunn reminiscences about nis adven 
tures as a correspondent during World War |! coverng the wer in the Pacific for CBS 
Radio in "Pacific Microphone," (Texas A&M Uriversty Press, $19 95). Dunn was sent to 
the Pacific almost a year before the Pearl Harbor allack аги? was dean of correspondents 
in the Southwest Pacific when Japan surrendered © ‘M5. Dunn not only captures the 


day-to-day frustrations of censorship, violence [18 correspondents died т he Soulhwest 
Pacific) and limited technology, but also provides a benind-the-scenes view of General 
Douglas MacArthur. Dunn met MacArthur before the war broke out and remamed tnencds 


with him throughout the war, introducing him wher "e delivered his famous 
returned" speech at the island of Leyte in the Pnillpoines 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
107 


have 


on Oct. 20 


1944 


oriented toward males viewers, events that 
wc have judged are just not attractive 
enough to be able to cover fully on the 
network. Nobody watching NBC in 1992 
will have any sense that they have any less 
[programing available] than any other 
Olympics they've ever seen.” 

On the network compensation issue, 


Wright said he does not foresee the basic 
structure of what he called the ‘‘cash and 
barter relationship’’ changing. **What I do 
foresee changing,’’ he said, *'is the alloca- 
tion of how much time they get on what 
shows and how much we pay them in a 
given show versus how much we give 
back." Wright said the network and its 


SatelliteaFootprints 


affiliates would continue to reexamine the 
issue on a time period-by-time period basis. 
‘*You’ll see changes in that area,” he said. 
*"They re not necessarily going to be nega- 
tive to the affiliates, but we're hopefully 
going to be smarter about the way we allo- 
cate all of our inventory and all of the cash 
that changes hands.'". О 


GTE claims GStar Ill loss. The cause of ОТЕ Spacenet's GStar III 
Ku-band satellite's failure to reach proper orbit last fall was "most 
lik@ly...a fault in the ground fue! loading equipment,” GTE said last 
week. GTE Spacenet has filed an insurance claim on the satellite, 
said Spacenet engineering and development vice president Troy 
Ellington. GStar Ill was designed to operate from nine to 11 years, 
but is expected to retain only three, or possibly fewer, years of 
operational life, he said. GTE Spacenet said the average cost of 
placing a satellite into service, including construction, launch, and 
insurance, is between $80 million and $100 million. 

GStar lll builder, GE Astrospace, which was responsible for the 
pretaunch procedures, did not return telephone calls by press time 
last week. GE Astro "had successfully used the fuel loading equip- 
ment" numerous times before GStar Ill, said Ellington, who con- 
firmed all risk was assumed by Spacenet. "Specific recommenda- 
tions on how to prevent a future occurrence of this anomaly have 
been documented." GTE said. 

"Obviously there are some very unhappy people out there," he 
said, noting that, until the failures last year of GStar IIl and of West 
Germany's TV Sat 1 direct broadcast satellite (reportedly also attrib- 
uted to ground procedure error), insurance rates "were in a down- 
ward trend" from an average of between 20% and 25% of satellite 
value. He said that although premiums may not go up, they may 
stabilize, despite the long string of launch successes at Ariane- 
space, whose launch of Spacenet ШВ earlier last year ended a two- 
year drought in domestic U.S. satellite launches. 

An independent review board determined that, because of an 
imbalance in hydrazine in the fuel tanks aboard the satellite, a 
successful apogee kick motor burn executed hours after its Sept. 8, 
1988, launch caused GStar Ш to spin, instead of moving the bird 
toward geosynchronous orbit at 124 degrees west longitude. Loss 
of approximately two-thirds of the bird's operational life is inevitable 
since station-keeping fuel will now have to be used to achieve 
proper orbit, said Ellington. That process begins Jan. 18, he said, 
and could be completed as early as next June. 

GStar Ш customers that GTE has had to accommodate on other 
in-orbit Ku-band satellites, said Ellison, include network occasional- 
time and newsgathering customers already contracted. ABC and 
CBS each retain long-term Ku-band transponder leases with GTE. 
GStar |! is now considered as "filing the gap," until GStar IV is 
launched by Arianespace in mid-1990, he said, adding that that 
launch date could be moved up, thanks to a relaunch priority 
ciause in the GStar Ш contract, he said. 


Scrambling on all fronts. Responding to programers' concerns 
about signal theft inside and outside the U.S., Armed Forces Radio 
and Television Service (AFRTS) has contracted satellite operator 
GE Americom to encrypt its two 24-hours-a-day satellite feeds by 
next June, using Scientific Atlanta's B-MAC scrambling system, 
said AFRTS assistant director Melvin Russell. The encryption sys- 
tem will include descramblers at 72 sites worldwide. 

Entertainment program providers, such as Disney and Lorimar, 
which currently provide their product to AFRTS ма videotape, said 
Russell, have said they will provide programing for AFRTS satellite 
distribution, after encryption of the domestic satellite feed (serving 
U.S. military personnel in Alaska, Greenland, Cuba, Panama and 
Puerto Rico) and the Intelsat feed (serving U.S. military on other 
continents) 

Additionally, sports programers such as ESPN, which last year 
pulled all its live programing from AFRTS distribution, have said 
they will again become an AFRTS supplier. once the signal is 


scrambled. All these programers, said Russell, provide AFRTS with 
product at “ridiculously low prices." But they have found it impossl- 
ble, he said, to market their programing to broadcasters, cable 
systems and hotels already able to pick up the сеаг AFRTS feed in 
foreign countries. 

Network news services now carried on AFRTS Satellite Network 
may not benefit from encryptioa, he said, noting that it "is very 
difficult" to market news services to commercial outlets overseas 
via satellite because of timeliness; evening news fed at 6 p.m. from 
New York, he noted, arrives in West Germany at midnight when few 
viewers are awake. With encryption, the network bureaus overseas 
will also lose the advantage of being able to pick up a clear feed of 
their own programs. 

CNN, which earlier this month became the first full-time video 
Service to Latin America via Panamsat's PAS 1 satellite, паз said it 
has no plans to encrypt any international feed (BROADCASTING, Jan. 
9). Russell said he did not believe the broadcast networks would 
leave AFRTS because of encryption. 

= 


Pay-per-view tests and deals. The home dish pay-per-view mar- 
ket, stuck in neutral during recent months because of programer 
Concerns over signal theft, has shifted into gear this month with the 
introduction of General instrument Corp. s HVS Videopal "instant 
pay-per-view order-recorder" at the Consumer Electronics Show in 
Las Vegas. СІ plans to begin multiregional tests of the equipment in 
February. | 

Videopal, selling initially for $99-$129, attaches to GI's Video- 
cipher Il descrambler and home telephone line, permitting consum- 
ers to order programs using the keypad of their VC |! remote 
control. Twenty-two licensed manufacturers that incorporate VC | 
into their satellite receivers have been offered Videopal devices 
during the regional tests. 

Gl, which said it believes Videopal will drive more home satellite 
equipment sales, said that three PPV services, First Run, Satellite 
Sports Network (SSN) and Home Dish Only, will participate in the 
tests. 

Warner Bros. Pay-TV will re-enter the home satellite PPV market 
March 6, when it distributes the Ray (Boom Boom) Mancini-Hector 
(Macho) Camacho lightweight boxing match. Warner Bros. and 
General Instrument "are developing the entertainment industry's 
largest anti-piracy satellite campaign in conjunction with the event, 
said Warner, which had pulled its product from the market last year 
over piracy concerns (BROADCASTING, June б). 

Atso, Satellite Broadcasting Network's PrimeTime 24 gained ex- | 
clusive rights to deliver three World Wrestling Federation PPV 
events—the Royal Rumble (last night, Jan. 15), SummerSlam '89 
and the third annual Survivor Series. 


Bigger sports package for home dish. SSN this month added 
Detroit-based regional sports network PASS to its consortium of 
regionals including Houston-based Home Sports Entertainment, 
Florida's Sunshine Network, Denver-based Prime Sports Network, 
Washington-based Home Team Sports and Los Angeles-based 
Prime Ticket. PASS is regional cable rightsholder to Detroit's profes- 
sional baseball, basketball and hockey teams and to Big 10 and 
Mid-Atlantic Conference college sports events | 


Going public. Home Dish Only Satellite Networks completed its 
reorganization with LGM Acquisition Corp. iate last year, becoming 
a publicly traded corporation owning 94% of LGM. "Access to 
capital markets," said Home Dish, "is expected to make it easier to 
raise money for expansion in film and поте video production. 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 


Baseball advertising: dollars move with the game 


Media planners believe much 
advertising will shift to 
CBS, ESPN from NBC and ABC 


ESPN's deal with Major League Baseball 
that will bring 175 games to cable subscrib- 
ers in 1990 will also cause some shifting in 
the advertising marketplace. No one was 
predicting last week whether overall base- 
ball dollars would increase or decrease, but 
a number of media planners believe much 
of the money that went to NBC and ABC 
for its MLB would shift to CBS and ESPN. 
Additionally, agency executives believe the 
addition of 175 more games will have little 
impact on local advertising. 

**As sure as apples fall from trees,” said 
Bart McHugh, director of national radio/TV 
programing, DDB Needham, broadcast net- 
work money will shift to CBS and ESPN. 
“Тһе people whose target audience watch 
baseball are going to buy baseball where it 
is," he said. ‘‘The fact that ESPN has it on 
cable is going to mean you can buy a very 
large schedule for a couple of units on 
broadcasting.’ 

Ron Von Urff, vice president, associate 
media director, JWT, agreed, saying in 
these situations, the national dollars “Кіпа 
of stay the same." 

And Tom Winner, executive vice presi- 
dent, media director, СМЕ, said, ‘much of 
that [money] will go over to ESPN,” but he 
added, "some may find its way to local 
baseball market support" since ESPN's 
reach, at 50 million homes, is not as large 
as the broadcast networks. Some advertis- 
ers could "heavy ир in key markets,” he 
said. The top 10 markets, for instance, 
reach 27 million homes. 

Local broadcasters are concerned that an- 
other 175 national games will dilute local 
advertising dollars. Most media planners 
thought otherwise, but the ratings will be 
the bottom line. ‘‘It’s basically a separate 
market,’’ said McHugh, referring to local 
versus national dollars, although some spot 
buyers may be able to purchase time on 
ESPN more efficiently. Von Urff also 
thought the ‘‘local guys will still be ОК,” 
because ''local advertisers are still going to 
buy local time."' 

But there was one note of caution from 
Charles Fruit, vice president, corporate me- 
dia, Anheuser-Busch. The saturation ques- 
tion is: ‘‘How will it effect local ratings? If 
[a team is] playing well, it won't have 
much of an impact," he said, on ratings 
and thus advertising. ‘‘I don't think you're 
going to see many clients moving local 
dollars out of Houston," he said, “апа put 
them on ESPN.” 

The network-local market is ‘‘a little bit 
apples and oranges,” said Fruit, whose di- 
vision makes both local and national buys 


for Anheuser-Busch, which owns the St. 
Louis Cardinals. ‘There is a tremendous 
amount of local promotion and merchandis- 
ing tie-ins and no national sponsorship can 
give you that kind of local involvement,” 
he said. 

Still, ratings will be a key, Fruit indicat- 
ed. **We are very involved in both the Cubs 
and Braves," which are carried on super- 
stations WGN-TV Chicago and WTBS(TV) At- 
lanta. *'I don't see a direct impact there, but 
obviously we are going to be looking very 
closely at the numbers when it's time to 
renew the Braves and Cubs." 

Anheuser-Busch is а major sponsor on 
ESPN events, and where it advertises, it 
does so exclusively ‘Чт just about every- 
thing we have done...Our preference is to 
have an encompassing involvement," he 
said. Fruit said the company '*would have 
the opportunity to be the exclusive beer 
sponsor in the games if we choose,” in- 
cluding all six nights. 

Would that be oversaturation? Not neces- 
sarily, said Fruit. Anheuser-Busch, which 
has numerous spots for numerous brands, 
limits its ads in ESPN's NFL games to six 
30-seconds per game, not to bombard the 
viewer. One spot each half hour in a base- 
ball game would not be oversaturation, he 
believes, because of viewer turnover. 

Still, the effect of oversaturation on rat- 
ings gives cause for thought among media 


planners. McHugh points to the NBA, 
which reduced its television exposure and 
increased the health of the game. Baseball, 
he said, is taking the opposite tack. 

But as baseball shifts to ESPN, McHugh 
points out, it "doesn't have to get a 7 
rating. It can be very successful with a 2.” 
Von Urff believes ''total baseball ratings 
will go up, but individual homes will go 
down.'' He said NBC was getting a 6 rating 
on Saturday, and ABC an 8 or 9 on Monday 
nights. If ESPN can get a 3 or 4 and “if 
they can get a $5 or $6 CPM, they'll be in 
good shape," said Von Urff. 

With the huge volume of spots, McHugh 
believes the marketplace will determine 
what can be charged, more so than the NFL 
on ESPN, where he said the last 15% to 
20% in the door were paying a premium. 
Von Urff points to what happened in col- 
lege football several years ago, when rat- 
ings dropped nearly 50% and so, too, did 
the price of 30-second spots. But cumu- 
latively, the ad dollars were similar. 

As Winner points out, ‘‘there are many 
more places to go with sports [dollars] 
these days. That gives an advertiser more 
options and an edge in pricing. The flip side 
is that it makes sports buys *'very hard to 
predict anymore," said Winner. And, he 
said, ‘‘it’s increasingly difficult to get that 
high impact that the networks used to give 
you with sports programing. E] 


1988 a good year for Showtime/TMC 


Pay services pick up more than 
900,000 subs last year; plan 
even more consumer marketing in '89 


Showtime/The Movie Channel said last 
week that its two pay services gained over 
900,000 cable subscribers in 1988. Show- 
time ended the year at 6,600,000, up 12% 
over 1987's yearend 5,900,000, while the 
Movie Channel increased 895, ending 1988 
with 2.7 million subscribers versus 1987's 
2.5 million. The figures do not include 
TVRO subscribers. 

The increase is largely tied to Show- 
time's increased marketing, the company 
said, and reflects the overall relative health 
of the pay television category. HBO is also 
expected to post gains in 1988 over 1987, 
although its numbers may not be released 
for several more weeks. 

For Showtime/The Movie Channel, the 
gains represent the continuation of in- 
creased subscriber growth since November 
1987, when the company stemmed the sub- 
scriber losses from the unit. Much of the 
credit for the turnaround came after the new 
management of Viacom—Sumner Redstone 
and Frank Biondi—came aboard and tapped 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
109 


Tony Cox to be Showtime chairman. 

In 1988, Showtime tripled its marketing 
budget over 1987, and Nora Ryan, senior 
vice president, consumer marketing, Show- 
time, said there will be a ‘‘significant’’ 
increase again in 1989. 

In 1988, the company undertook three 
campaigns, first quarter, summer and fall, 
and supplemented those with additional 
marketing efforts throughout the year. ''Ba- 
sically, vou're always marketing," Ryan 


said, referring to the year-round approach 
championed by Cox. In 1988, Showtime 
mailed 70 million direct mail pieces. That 


Good year for Gulf + Western. Си! + Western reported net earnings of $384. 7 million 
for the year ended Oct 31, 1988. up 855 trom previous fiscal year. Revenue for 1988 was 
$5.1 billion, up 9%. Company said that its television operation registered higher 
operating income from strong videocassette sales, ava*aboty of Webater and re- 
licensing of опса! Star Trak episaces ^ domestic syndication, higher sales 10 

foreign pay television and increased advertising revenue al 5095-owned USA Network 


First-quarter drop. MGM/UA Communications reported net loss at $39.5 millon tor fis 
1989 first sca quarter enced Nav. 30, 1988. Company пас made net profit of $2. 1 
rr&'ion in corresponding quarter year before. This year's oss was prman'y due to 


incressed wrtedowns an theatrical releases and projects 


п development, as well as 


increased interest expense, company said. Operating revenue was down 6% to 


$170.3 millian. 


will more than double to 150 million in 
1989, she said. Last year, the company 
held one free preview weekend for Show- 
time and two for The Movie Channel. This 
year, said Ryan, there will be three free 
previews for each service. And each service 
will have its own marketing campaigns in 
the first quarter, summer and fall, respec- 
tively. 

The first quarter 1989 campaign ‘‘will be 
the biggest ever,” said Ryan, and will run 
through March. It's backed by а ''Cadil- 
lac’? marketing kit, said Ryan, and pro- 
motes Showtime's movie lineup that now 
includes ''Three Men and a Baby” and 
“Fatal Attraction.” 

What 1989 represents is ‘‘more’’ of the 
successful elements from 1988, said Ryan, 
"more mail pieces, more people, more of- 
ten. The biggest thing we did in 1988 was 
stepped up direct marketing, direct re- 
sponse and general advertising,” Ryan 
said. August, traditionally a light television 
-viewing month, posted the best numbers for 
the year, Ryan said. “It was our highest 
growth month in several years," she said. 

Ryan said that churn among new sub- 
scribers was about 40%, pc‘“ting out that 
20% of all спит stems їгс. people mov- 
ing. ''We do lose a certain percentage,’ 
she admitted, ''but you never run out of 
people." Ongoing churn has become the 
norm in pay television. Showtime gains 
many former subscribers, she said, and they 
“аге the best target" because they know 
the service. One problem with churn is that 
subscribers make a decision each month on 
whether to retain the service. If that deci- 
sion had to be made less often, say once a 
year, said Ryan, chum would likely go 
down. But annualized billing has been test- 
ed without positive results, primarily be- 
cause of the substantial upfront payment. 

Ryan said Showtime will continue with 
its three-month, half-price offers in 1989, 
and stay away from 99 cent offers. The 
three-month offer creates “‘ап incentive to 
stay with the service," Ryan said, and 
Showtime follows with retention marketing 
during those three morcs. *'It's a balance 
between bringing in a large volume of cus- 
tomers and reter ion over time," Ryan 
said. ‘‘If it’s too iucrative [an offer], you're 
not qualifying the customer," she said. 
“Тһе half-price offer," she added, ''is 
highly profitable." 

Because Showtime's subscriber growth 
in 1988 exceeded initial estimates, more 
money than was earlier budgeted was 
plowed back into marketing, and Ryan ex- 
pects that to continue in 1989. Ryan also 


said Showtime will begin experimenting 
with marketing specifically to addressable 
homes, where subscribers who see what’s 
on the service for the weekend can make an 
impulse purchase and be turned on immedi- 
ately, making the transaction much like pay 
per view. О 


Hotel PPV | 
service for sale 


No clear buyers yet for 
Spectradyne's 500,000 rooms 


Purchase of Spectradyne may be attractive 
to a diversified media company, now that 
the Richardson, Tex.-based distributor of 
pay-per-view movies and other services to 
hotel guests is on the market (‘Closed Cir- 
cuit," Jan. 9). Although numbers on the 
industry are incomplete, it appears that 
prospects for earnings in the hotel-motel 
PPV business would encourage as much 
industry interest in the company as there 
was when the company was last sold, in 
1987. 

However, at least one company that was 
interested in purchasing the hotel video op- 
eration when it was last for sale is not as 
interested now. ‘Ме looked at it very seri- 
ously at that time," said Julian Brodsky, 
chief financial officer of Comcast Corp., 
but he said the company was not looking at 
it now. 

Spectradyne is the dominant player in the 
hotel pay-per-view arena, with second 
place going to Comsat Video Enterprises 
(CVE), part of Communications Satellite 
Corp. Among the estimated 900,000 hotel 
rooms in the U.S. and Canada equipped for 
PPV, Spectradyne operates its Spectravi- 
Sion service in hotels serving more than 
500,000 rooms, including Hilton, Hyatt, 
Marriott and Sheraton hotels. CVE, whose 
PPV service is known to hotel guests as 
Satellite Cinema, is available in an estimat- 
ed 300,000 rooms in 1,800 hotels, includ- 
ing Holiday Inns—the company was previ- 
ously a joint venture of Comsat and 
Holiday Corp.—and Ramada Inns, Hiltons 
and Sheratons. 

Both of these services enable guests to 
charge in-room movies to their hotel bill, 
with the hotel typically receiving 1096 of 
the money collected from the guest. А 
rough estimate of industry revenue, which 
starts with pay-per-view hotel rooms, gen- 
erating about $13 each in guest charges per 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
110 


month, indicates that PPV services bring 
program distributors at least $125 million 
annually. 

Spectradyne's PPV channels accounted 
for 79% of the company's revenue in the 
first three quarters of 1988, according to a 
company financial statement. Movies for 
up to six channels per room come either 
from a centralized videocassette cart operat- 
ed in the hotel, or from a machine that 
serves several hotels in one area via leased 
cable lines. Spectradyne also offers satel- 
lite-distributed free-to-guest services in 
about 300,000 rooms, more than half of 
which also offer PPV. The company col- 
lected 16% of its revenue in the first three 
quarters of 1988 from charges for free-to- 
guest programing, with smaller portions 
coming from other services that Spectra- 
dyne offers to hotels, such as in-room guest 
checkout and a room availability program. 

The company reported revenue of $83.4 
million for the first three quarters of 1989, 
with an operating loss of $1.4 million. Be- 
cause Spectradyne was paying $38.4 mil- 
lion in interest costs related to its 1987 
acquisition, Spectradyne reported a net loss 
of $40.2 million for the same period. 

CVE’s service, transmitted to hotels via 
Ku-band satellite, includes three Satellite 
Cinema PPV channels, four free-to-guest 
channels and two music channels. CVE 
also has the capacity to use channels for 
teleconferencing; distribution of videocon- 
ference programing can be limited to partic- 
ular hotels and rooms as necessary. The 
four free channels include ESPN, CNN 
Headline News, WTBS(TV) Atlanta and 
Showtime. Showtime Networks packages 
and schedules the product for Satellite Cin- 
ema. 

Fred Del Toro, vice president, marketing 
and programing for CVE, confirmed that 
Satellite Cinema generated more than $40 
million in annual revenue for the company. 
He said the company was not turning a 
profit **because we are expending a good 
deal of money in product development and 
marketing.” 

Much of the growth for the two compa- 
nies is expected to come from expansion of 
the services into smaller hotels via less ex- 
pensive hardware. Hotels with fewer than 
100 rooms are a ‘‘huge untapped market'' 
for PPV, said Matt Riklin, senior vice pres- 
ident of special markets and business devel- 
opment for Showtime Networks. Noting 
that Spectradyne is installing many of its 
systems in hotels with 100-200 rooms, Wil- 
liam Coleman, Spectradyne’s vice presi- 
dent of programing, said, ‘‘We have found 
that the small hotels are not that much dif- 
ferent from larger properties in terms of 
viewing patterns and usage levels.'' Addi- 
tionally, CVE is starting to market and in- 
stall an upgraded system for the high-end 
market that provides electronic guest-room 
services similar to those Spectradyne of- 
fers, such as in-room checkout, various 
message services and room service. 

A recent new service providing PPV pro- 
graming specifically for hotel and motel 
consumption is Reiss Media Enterprises' 
Guest Cinema, which was launched last 
June. The company said in November that 
it had signed PPV distribution agreements 
representing more than 50,000 rooms. O 


CBS makes play 
for overseas 
baseball rights 


It seeks to complement domestic 
TV contract with foreign one 


One month after CBS won a $1 billion bid 
to broadcast Major League Baseball games 
beginning in 1990, the company's interna- 
tional arm was pitching MLB to distribute 
games outside North America. 

Also appearing on the table last wcek, 
following the conclusion of rights deals for 
both U.S. network TV and domestic cable 
(ESPN two weeks ago signed a four-year, 
$400 million contract for 175 games), were 
domestic radio licensing and domestic 
Spanish-language rights. 

CBS Radio's six-year radio contract is 
nearing completion and MLB Senior Vice 
President Bryan Burns said he has already 
been approached by at least one other radio 
network interested in the domestic radio 
rights. 

Under the new TV contract with CBS, 
international rights remain with MLB com- 
pletely for the first time, according to 
Burns. Overseas rights were formerly in- 
cluded in domestic contracts with ABC and 


NBC, although MLB has sold some games 
overseas itself in the past. | 

Burns said, however, that MLB may 
farm out rights to another distributor. And 
CBS's Donald Wear, senior vice president 
and general manager of CBS Broadcast In- 
ternational, told BROADCASTING he contact- 
ed MLB in late December to ''express an 
interest in representing international rights 
in whole or in part," and was trying last 
week to arrange a meeting with Burns. The 
CBS domestic package covers only the 
U.S., Canada апа U.S. territories. 

Wear said CBS believes international 
baseball rights make business sense, partic- 
ularly in locales such as Japan, Latin and 
South America, the Caribbean and certain 
areas of Europe. 

But NBC international program sales ex- 
ecutive Mike Perez, who has handled over- 
seas baseball sales for that network, be- 
lieves there are critical limitations to 
overscas marketing of baseball, ranging 
from competition with local televised sports 
to the cost of satellite distribution. 

Also in sports licensing news last week 
was 1994 World Cup Soccer, to be held in 
the U.S. for the first time. Turner Broad- 
casting, which has picked up rights to the 
1990 tournament for cable channel Turner 
Network Television, is in discussions for 
the 1994 matches, and ESPN has also ex- 
pressed an interest in the matches. 

Steve Caspers, president of USA Soccer 


| 


Elliot B. Evers 
415-391-4877 


Randall E. Jeffery 
407-295-2572 


Charles E. Giddens 
202-785-4333 


Brian E. Cobb 
202-785-4333 


Raymond J. Schonbak 
415-391-4877 


Done Deal. 


A discreet, intelligent brokerage 
service with over $475,000,000 
in radio/television mergers and 
acquisitions. 


RADIO and TELEVISION BROKERAGE 
FINANCING » APPRAISALS 


To the rescue. When high winds and ice buildup combined to topple wenE-rv Wilkes 
Barre, Pa.'s tower early Sunday morning, Jan. 8, viewers were left wondering whether 
they would see the American Football Conference (AFC) championship game that the 
NBC affiliate was scheduled to broadcast. They were saved by CBS affiliate wvou(rv) 
Scranton, Pa., which pre-empted its regular programing to broadcast the AFC title game 
between the Buffalo Bills and Cincinnati Bengals. The station then showed the National 
Football Conference title game. "We offered to give them [were-Tv| any kind of assistance 
we could...If we could be helpful to them and the viewers, we would do it." said Garry 
Ritchie, vice president and general manager of wyou. Ritchie also allowed were-Tv tO 
place an antenna on its transmitting tower. Tom Wilson, program director at wBRE-TV Said 
that a temporary antenna was placed on the transmitter building on Penobscot Mountain 
(where the fallen tower was located) and a permanent tower will eventually be installed. 
He said last week that the station hoped to be back to normal by the end of the week. 
Programing has been restored to 7596 of the market through local cable systems Service 
Electric Northeast and Verto Cable. The tower, which was 19 years old, fell sometime 
between 2:30 a.m. and 6:30 a.m., Jan. 8, after the station had signed off the air for the 


evening. There were no injuries. 


MEDIA VENTURE 
PARTNERS 


WASHINGTON, DC 
ORLANDO 
SAN FRANCISCO 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
111 


Properties, marketing agent for the U.S. 
Soccer Federation, which will handle North 
American English-language rights, said the 
federation hopes to use the tournament to 
build the sport in the U.S. 

USA Soccer Properties later this month 
will present international sponsors of the 
games with a plan for U.S. promotion of 
the tournament, as well as a six-year build- 
ing program for the U.S. national team. 
Sponsors for the 1994 games include Coca- 
Cola, Gillette, Anheuser-Busch, Fuji, 
Canon, Philips and JVC. 

In a boost to the group's soccer promo- 
tion campaign, USA Soccer Properties last 
week said senior marketing responsibilities 
would be assumed by former Interpublic 
Group executive Murray Hillman and for- 
mer National Football League Properties 
President and Chief Executive Officer Bob 
Carey, both of whom will serve as consul- 
tants. 

Former TV network veteran William 
Breen, who most recently headed the sports 
marketing firm ISL, which was involved in 
corporate sponsorships for the 1988 Olym- 
pics and the 1990 World Cup in Italy, was 
also named executive vice president of tele- 
vision marketing in New York. 

USA Soccer Properties, run by Caspers 
with former North American Soccer League 
Commissioner Phil Woosnam, is a joint 
venture with London-based Pascoe Nally 
International, run by Patrick Nally as a 
fully owned subsidiary of advertising giant 
WCRS. Ad agency Interpublic has an equi- 
ty position in Caspers's and Woosnam's 
C&W Associates, said Caspers. a 


xngingmHoanas 


WicciAM) Bridgeport, Conn. O Sold by Tri- 
bune broadcasting Co. to M.L. Media Part- 
ners for undisclosed amount. Value of trans- 
action is estimated at $8 million-$9 million. 
Seller is Chicago-based group of three AM's, 
two FM's and six TV's headed by James Dow- 
dle. Buyer is public limited partnership 
formed by Elton Н. Rule, |. Martin Pompadur 
and Merrill Lynch & Co. It also owns wQAL(FM) 
Cleveland, Ohio; wiRE(AM)-wXTZ(FM) Indianapo- 
lis; wEJZtFM) Jacksonville, Fla.; KBEZ(FM) Tulsa, 
Okla., and wEBE(FM) Westport, Conn. Wicc is 
on 600 khz with 1 kw-D and 500 w-N. 


WowP-AM-FM Bellaire, Ohio о Sold by Heri- 
tage broadcast Group to Baum Broadcast 
Group for approximately $5 million. Seller is 
owned by Mario F. lacobelli, who also owns 
wXXA(TV) Albany, N.Y., KEZB-AM-FM El Paso and 
WOMP-AM-FM Bellaire, Ohio. It purchased wDAM- 
Tv Hattiesberg, Miss., and wcFT-Tv Tuscaloo- 
sa, Ala., last year ("Changing Hands," Sept. 
26, 1988). Buyer is newly formed company 
principally owned by Theodore H. Baum, Heli- 
con Group Ltd., cable TV executive, and Rich- 
ard Rakovan, former RKO Radio executive. 
Transaction is buyer's first broadcast acquisi- 
tion. Wome is daytimer on 1290 khz with 1 kw. 
WowP-FM operates on 100.5 mhz with 13.5 kw 
and antenna 520 feet above average terrain. 
Broker: Richard A. Foreman & Associates 
Inc. 

WTKO(AM)-WQNY(FM) Ithaca, №.Ү.о Sold by Mat- 


for 


$2,300,000 


DESIGN MEDIA, INC. 


(John Thomas, President and Peter Carpey, Secretary) 


has acquired 


WKEU AM/FM 
Griffin, Georgia 


from 


DOMINION MARKETING, INC. 
(Al Charles and Joseph H. Bourdow, Principals) 


We are pleased to have served 
as broker in this transaction. 


BLACKBURN 6COMPANY 


NOX O R ТООК АТ 


Media Brokers © Appraisers Since 1947 
WASHINGTON, DC. 20036 ATLANTA, GA 30361 


1100 Connecticut Ave., NW 
(202) 331-9270 


400 Colony Square 
(404) 892-4655 


CHICAGO, IL 60601 
333 N. Michigan Ave. 
(312) 346-6460 


BEVERLY HILLS, CA 90212 
9465 Wilshire Blvd. 
(213) 274-8151 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
112 


thew T. Cooney Jr. to Gilmore Communica- 
tions for $3.4 million. Seller also owns 
WCHN(AM)WKXZ(FM) Norwich, N.Y. Buyer is 
owned by James S. Gilmore Ill, former presi- 
dent of Gilmore Broadcasting. Transaction is 
first station person on his own. Wrko operates 
fulltime on 1470 khz with 5 kw, and wony 
operates on 103.7 mhz with 11.8 kw and an- 
tenna 890 feet above average terrain. Broker: 
Americom Radio Brokers. 


КВРКАМ) Denver о Sold by Rocky Mountain 
Two Inc. to Boulder Broadcasting Corp. for an 
estimated $2 million. Seller is division of San- 
dusky Radio, Denver-based group of two 
AM's and seven FM's. It also publishes four 
newspapers and is principally owned by Dud- 
ley White and family. Buyer is newly formed 
holding company, locally owned by David 
Corman, Boulder, Colo.-based international 
coal consultant. John Wark is corporate presi- 
dent and will serve as station manager. 
KBPi(AM) is fulltimer on 790 khz with 5 kw. 


Wkza(ru) Keyser, W.Va. (Cumberland, Md.) 
о Sold by Jones-Powers Broadcasting to 
Keyser Broadcasting Inc. for $300,000. Seller 
is principally owned by Joseph Don Powers, 
Carolyn Jones and C.J. Jones. C.J. Jones 
owns Jones-Eastern Radio Inc., Charleston, 
S.C.-based group of three AM's and four 
FM's. Buyer is principally owned by Charles 
McFall Jr., Columbus, Ga.-based manage- 
ment consultant with no other broadcast inter- 
ests. Wkzc is on 107.1 mhz with 3 kw and 
antenna 783 feet above average terrain. Bro- 
kers: Ray H. Rosenblum and Donald Nah- 
ley. 


| — СА 


Systems serving Stephens City, Middle- 
town, Berryville, Winchester, Front Royal, 
Buena Vista and Lexington, all Virginia O 
Sold by Mid Atlantic Network Inc. to Adelphia 
Communications Corp. Seller is Winchester, 
Va.-based media group of three AM's and 
three FM's, principally owned by John P. Lew- 
is, David P. Lewis and Howard P. Lewis. Buy- 
er is Coudersport, Pa.-based MSO serving 
approximately 742,000 subscribers in nine 
states. It is principally owned by John Rigas. 
Systems serve approximately 23,800 sub- 
scribers. Broker: Waller Capital Corp. 


System serving Balnbridge and Chenango 
County, New York о Sold by Bainbridge Vid- 
ео Inc. to Bainbridge Cable Co. Seller is prin- 
cipally owned by David H. Coe, Clare G. Coe 
and Cynthia C. Betts. David Coe will stay on 
as system manager. Buyer is newly formed 
company, owned by Connecticut-based in- 
vestor, and has no other cable holdings. Sys- 
tem serves approximately 1,500 subscribers 
with 2,500 homes passed. Broker: Frank 
Boyle & Co. 


Systems serving LaGrange, LaBelle, New 
London, Lewistown, Center, Frankford and 
Wayland, all Missouri о Sold by Canton-La- 
Grange Cablevision Inc. to Cencom Cable 
Television. Seller is owned by Semo Commu- 
nications Inc., Sikeston, Mo.-based MSO that 
also owns systems in Wilson City and Wyatt, 
both Missouri. Buyer is Chesterfield, Mo.- 
based MSO serving 221,000 subscribers in 


eight states. It is headed by Robert Brooks, 
chairman. Systems serves approximately 
2,000 subscribers. Broker: Thoben-Van Huss 
Associates Inc. 


System serving St. Francisville, La. à Sold 
by Audubon Cablevision Co. to Vista Cablevi- 
sion of Louisiana Ltd. Seller has no other 
cable holdings. Buyer is group of investors 


that are limited partners and have no other 
cable holdings. System serves approximately 
600 subscribers. Broker: The Denver Group. 


System serving Cuba, М.Ү. о Sold by Cuba 
Cable Co. to U.S. Cable Corp. Seller is princi- 
pally owned by Loren Chamberlain and has 
no other cable holdings. Buyer is Montvale, 
N.J.-based MSO serving 145,000 subscribers 


in nine states. It is principally owned by Ste- 
phen Е. Myers. System serves 978 subscrib- 
ers with 1,245 homes passed and 21 miles of 
plant. Broker: Communications Equity Asso- 
cites. 


For other proposed and approved sales, see “For the 
Record," page 117. 


Cooke and Times Co. selling cable systems 


Deals, for $1.47 billion and 
$420 million, respectively, both 
involve minority tax certificates 


In deals that were noteworthy not only for 
their size but also for the selling process, 
two of the largest cable properties on the 
market have been matched up with buyers, 
according to separate announcements made 
last Monday (Jan. 9). 

Jack Kent Cooke signed a letter of in- 
tent to sell his 700,000-subscriber Cooke 
Cable Vision to a consortium of cable 
operators for an estimated $1.47 billion. 
And the New York Times Co. agreed to 
sell its 162,000-subscriber New Jersey ca- 
ble system for $420 million. Prices for 
both sales were in the range of industry 
expectations. 

The Times sale was one of the largest 
transactions so far involving the FCC's tax 
certificate policy, which gives certain tax 
breaks to companies that sell broadcast or 
cable properties to minority-owned compa- 
nies. The Times estimated that the tax de- 
ferrals expected in the purchase were worth 
$55 million to the company. Buying the 
Times cable system is a partnership com- 
prising black businessman J. Bruce Llewel- 
lyn along with MSO's Comcast Corp. and 
Lenfest Communications. However, part of 
the Cooke transaction, involving the sale of 
systems with 215,000 subscribers at an un- 
disclosed price, is expected to be a tax 
certificate transaction as well. 

The Cooke property was sold in one 
piece to a consortium of seven buyers, each 
of which will take a separate part of the 
property once the deal closes. The buying 
group, organized by San Francisco-based 
InterMedia Partners with the help of broker 
Daniels & Associates, was said to be the 
largest such buying group in a cable trans- 
action. Coming away from the transaction 
with the three largest pieces of the Cooke 
systems will be Tele-Communications Inc. , 
TCA Cable TV and Robin Cable Systems, 
a limited partnership InterMedia is forming 
with Sacramento businessman Frank Wash- 
ington. InterMedia in turn is partially held 
by TCI, probably qualifying the venture for 
TCI's programing discounts. 

The price for the Cooke system was not 
disclosed, but one knowledgeable industry 
participant estimated the per-subscriber 
price to average about $2,100, totaling 
$1.47 billion. 

Robin Cable Systems' purchase of prop- 
erties involving 215,000 subscribers is in- 
tended to qualify Cooke for a tax certifi- 
cate, confirmed Alan Mutter, a limited 
partner in InterMedia. Because Washington 
is black and because he is expected to con- 
trol Robin Cable Systems аз its general 


partner, the limited partnership will fit the 
FCC guidelines of a minority-controlled en- 
Шу, its participants believe. Washington 
has worked at the FCC in various positions, 
and most recently was a vice president in 
charge of cable and radio, among other 
properties, at McClatchy Newspapers. 

Although not publicized as such, the 
Robin Cable Systems purchase will proba- 
bly surpass the Times sale as the biggest 
tax-certificate sale to date, in terms of pur- 
chase price. At the estimated price of 
$2,100 per sub, Robin's purchase of the 
Cooke systems would amount to about 
$450 million, or $30 million more than the 
Times transaction. (Such a per-sub estimate 
for the Robin systems is very conservative, 
because they include the Tucson properties, 
considered one of the more attractive parts 
of the Cooke systems.) However. it is un- 
known what Cooke's tax on that sale would 
be and how much the tax certificate is 
worth to the seller. 

In contrast to the New York Times sys- 


tem, which serves 162,000 subscribers in a 
35-mile radius of its Cherry Hill, N.J., 
headquarters, the geographical spread of 
the Cooke properties posed a major hurdle 
to an easy sale of the system. The 700,000 
subscribers in the Cooke properties are 
spread out among cable systems in 19 
states. 

The buyer consortium effectively by- 
passed any subdivision that Cooke might 
have made when the properties were of- 
fered for sale. 

Fred Nichols, executive vice president 
and chief operating officer of TCA Cable 
TV, which is acquiring systems in four 
states, said that his company joined the 
consortium after concluding that Cooke 
would have to sell to a single buyer if he 
wanted to dispose of all of his systems. If 
the systems had been broken up, ‘‘we 
didn't see how Cooke could come out with- 
out having some pieces left over,’’ Nichols 
said. ‘“Тнеу’уе got some properties in there 
that just aren't any good. Some of the 


ALL PRO BROADCASTING, INC. 
has acquired 


KYOU-FM 


Denver (Greeley), Colorado 


From SURREY FRONT RANGE 
LIMITED PARTNERSHIP 


$5,500,000.00 


The undersigned acted as broker in this transaction and 
assisted in the negotiations 


Kalil & Co., Inc. 


3444 North Country Club + Tucson, Arizona 85716 • (602) 795-1050 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 


Cooke CableVision 
Acquisitions 


Robin Cable Systems {partnership af In- 
terMedie Partners end Frank Washington) 
О Subs 215.000 O States- Arizona, Geor- 
gia, South Carolina, Tennesses 

TCI о Subs: 200,000 O States Washing- 
ton, Oregon. California, Illinois, Kentucky, 
Ohio, Wyam:ng 


TCA Cable TV O Subs 87,020 С States 
Miss:sstppi 


New Mexico, Oxlahorna, 


Texag 

Hawk Cable {joint venture of Goshawk 
Cop. and Adelphia Communications 
Corp) 2 Sube: 84,000 U States: New Yark, 
Nort Caroline, South Carolina, Virginia 
Falcon Cable © Subs 42,000 D State 
Oregon 

Chambers Communications © 
10.000 © State: California 

Rock Associates O Subse 25,0005 State 
Alaska 


эмге: 


Source. Take Communications Inc 


towns just don't have any growth," he 
said, declining to be more specific. 

Leo J. Hindery Jr., managing general 
partner of InterMedia, and Brian Deevy, 
senior vice president of Daniels, were cred- 
ited with conceiving and organizing the 
buyer group. 

In the announced sale of the New York 
Times cable systems, minority tax certifi- 
cates played a more publicized role. The 
Times Co. put great emphasis on the poli- 
су, which the ЕСС implemented 10 years 
ago to encourage sale of broadcast and ca- 
ble properties to minority owned and con- 
trolled entities. The policy allows the seller 
to defer the taxes of proceeds from such 
sales under certain circumstances (BROAD- 
CASTING, Sept. 26, 1988). 

The Times Co., which encouraged po- 
tential bidders for the system to structure 
their offers so that the Times would qualify 
for a tax certificate, told buyers that the 
advantages of the tax certificate were worth 
$55 million to the company. Sources famil- 
iar with the Times Co. said that, based on 
their estimations of the present value of the 
money that the company will defer paying 
in taxes, they thought the value of the tax 


== 


INVESTING IN RADIO 1989 


4TH EDITION 


BIA PUBLICATIONS, INC. ANNOUNCES THE FORTHCOMING PUBLICATION 
OF ITS PREMIER REFERENCE BOOK SERIES FOR THE RADIO INDUSTRY. 
RENEW OR ENTER Your SUBSCIPTION Now! 


BIA Pus ications, INC. 
BROADCAST INVESTMENT ANALYSTS, INC. 
Subscriber Services: Toll-free 1-800-323-1781 
(In Virginia 703-478-5873 collect) 


Jack Kent Cooke 


certificate to the Times was as much as $75 
million. Other sources said each of the bid- 
ders for the Times system had made sure to 
include an opportunity for the Times to 
make a tax-certificate-qualifying sale. 

The Times Co. said that it would make 
an after-tax gain of approximately $183 
million, or $2.34 a share, $150 million of 
which it would use by the end of the year to 
pay off debt. 

The $420 million price is approximately 
13 times the cash flow that the property will 
generate for buyers in the 12 months fol- 
lowing the closing date of the transaction, 
according to extrapolations from the prop- 
erty’s estimated 1988 cash flow of $25 mil- 
lion. 

The Times Co. had retained First Boston 
Corp. to help it sell the system. 

Julian Brodsky, vice chairman and chief 
financial officer of Comcast, said that the 
company allied itself with Lenfest Commu- 
nications partly to share the risks involved 
with the system purchase. Lenfest, a pri- 
vately held MSO 49% owned by TCI, is 
based, as is Comcast, in the Philadelphia 
area. ‘‘We’ve known each other for a long 
time,’’ Brodsky said. Gerry Lenfest, presi- 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
114 


dent and chief executive officer of Lenfest, 
said that a friend, whom he declined to 
identify, put him in touch with Llewellyn. 

Llewellyn is no stranger to either the 
Fifth Estate nor the FCC's tax certificate 
policy. He is chairman of the board and 
major stockholder of Queen City Broad- 
casting, which owns ABC affiliate WKBw- 
TV Buffalo, N.Y. Llewellyn was part of a 
minority group that purchased the station 
from Capital Cities Communications in 
1985, qualifying the seller for a tax certifi- 
cate. Llewellyn is also chairman of the 
board and a major stockholder in both the 
Philadelphia Coca-Cola Bottling Co. and 
the Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of Wilmington, 


П 

The venture involving Llewellyn, Сот- 
cast and Lenfest '*will be formed in such 
manner as will be designed to get the tax 
certificate,” Lenfest said. The three parties 
plan to set up a partnership in which a 
minority investment group headed by 
Llewellyn will contribute $25 million in 
equity, while limited partners Comcast and 
Lenfest will each contribute $50 million. 
Along with these contributions, the partner- 
ship will raise money through a debt offer- 
ing to cover the purchase price of the sys- 
tem and about $20 million-$30 million of 
working capital, Lenfest said. 

The minority group's contribution would 
thus amount to about 20% of equity. The 
FCC includes in its definition of qualifying 
buyers limited partnerships in which the 
general partner is a minority, provided that 
he own at least 20% of the partnership's 
total equity, according to Erwin Krasnow 
and William Kennard of the Washington 
law firm of Verner, Liipfert, Bernhard. 
McPherson & Hand. Lenfest said that 
Llewellyn will control the system, while the 
limited partners would be ''available for 
consultation,” he said. It is expected that 
the MSO's participation in the venture will 
qualify it for programing discounts. 

Several observers predicted that an in- 
creasing number of broadcast and cable 
transactions would involve tax certificates. 
In the Times sale, ''there were six bid- 
ders—all of which had а tax certificate. I 
think they're going to become more and 
more common,” said Andy Armstrong, se- 
nior vice president of Waller Capital. Be- 
cause of the tax certificate, Waller said, 
buyers in the Times transaction paid $2,600 
per subscriber, while the Times effectively 
received $3,000 per subscriber—' with Un- 
cle Sam kicking in the differential." 

Both the Times and the Cooke transac- 
tions are scheduled to close around the mid- 
dle of 1989. im 


For sale. After announcing in Decem- 
ber that it was selling one of its subur- 
ban Minneapolis cable systems, 
Hauser Communications announced 
that it is selling a second affiliated sys- 
tem in the Twin Cities area. The North 


Central Cable Communications Corp. 
System, in which Continental Cablevi- 
sion is a 5096 investor, is expected to 
pass 190,000 homes and have 79,500 
subscribers at the time of closing, ac- 
cording to the seller. 


Early to rise: News goes after growing morning audience 


Networks, stations go on air 

at the crack of dawn to capture 
first ratings of day, in hopes 

of keeping viewers all day 


Getting up early is routine for an increasing 
number of local news departments. Within 
the past few years and continuing into re- 
cent months, the number of affiliate stations 
with newscasts at 6:30, 6 and even 5:30 
a.m. has increased, while the length of 
many existing newscasts has expanded. 
Those stations chase a growing audience 
and reinforce their image as the market's 
"news station.” 

But the local early-morning news also 
poses a challenge for the three broadcast 
networks’ own offerings: NBC News at 
Sunrise, CBS Morning News and ABC's 
World News This Morning. These shows 
are increasingly preempted or run at earlier 
time periods where homes-using-television 
(HUT) levels in an earlier half hour can be 
lower by 25% or more. 

The early morning grab for air time does 
not, however, fit into the classical network- 
affiliate fight. ABC, CBS and NBC have 
mixed feelings about the stations' moves. 
acknowledging that a successful local show 
may provide a stronger lead-in to the very 
important morning shows typically begin- 
ning at 7 a.m. And in some cases, the 
Stations’ own shows actually pre-date the 
networks’ most recent efforts in the early 
morning time period. 

NBC News at Sunrise, while suffering 
the fewest preemptions of the three shows, 
has, nonetheless, been bumped to 6 or ear- 
lier in many markets. Yet the show's exec- 
utive producer, Gerry Solomon, said, 


“МВС over all is very pleased with the fact 
that the lead-in to Today is very good.’ 
James Lynagh, president of Multimedia 
Broadcasting, said, "NBC News at Sunrise 
is going to be a 6 a.m. rather than 6:30 
show and NBC will be better off.” 


SES Ur 


ABC's Pat Roddy à 


CBS's Corvo 


Unlike the damage caused network 
shows by local preemptions and schedule 
shifting in other dayparts, the three network 
shows surprisingly have been able to in- 
crease their delivery of target demographic 
viewers. typically adults 18-49 and 25-54. 
While fourth-quarter, three-network house- 


November, 1988 


SOLD 


Certain assets of 


NBC’s Solomon 


hold shares were down from the same peri- 
od a year ago, according to Deborah T. 
Shinnick, ABC manager of news audience 
analysis, viewers per household sets are up. 
Combined with the fact that the number of 
homes using television is up considerably 
from 10 years аро, it may be possible for 


TAFT COMMUNICATIONS 


OF OKLAHOMA 


consisting of the Muzak franchise for 
Tulsa and surrounding areas 


have been sold to 


GRANITE SOUND CORPORATION 


of Tulsa, Oklahoma 


The undersigned represented the seller in this transaction. 
This notice appears as a matter of record only. 


101 E. Kennedy Blvd., Suite 3300, Tampa, FL 33602 813/222-8844 

1133 20th Street, N.W., Suite 260, Washington, DC 20036 202/778-1400 
1235 Westlakes Drive, Suite 140, Berwyn, PA 19312 215/251-0650 

CEA, Inc., 375 Park Ave., Suite 3808, New York, NY 10152 212/319-1968 


© 


COMMUNICATIONS 


EQUITY 


ASSOCIATES 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
115 


the networks to survive in early morning. 

The three networks combined deliver 
over a million adults in each target catego- 
ry. And according to Lawrence Fried, vice 
president, news and early morning sales, 
ABC, the daypart has been the fastest 
growing—admittedly starting from a lower 
base. One advertising marketplace execu- 
tive estimated that 30-second spots on the 
networks that went for $1,000 six or seven 
years ago are now going for perhaps five to 
seven times that amount. 

Because the shows operate with a rela- 
tively small staff, the cost is low enough so 
that even if there is no profit, the loss is 
kept to a minimum. Profitability is only one 
consideration for today's news division, 
which is also concerned with ‘‘amortizing”’ 
division fixed costs over a larger portion of 
the schedule. The early morning news staffs 
continue to work past 7 a.m., either provid- 
ing news segments for the morning shows 
or updating West Coast affiliates on break- 
ing developments. 

Economy also characterizes many efforts 
at the station level. Bud Carey, general 
manager, WNBC-TV New York, which last 
month expanded its early morning news- 
cast, said, “‘We have two robotic cameras 
in the newsroom, and the talent run their 
own tele-prompter. [f you are able to sim- 
plify the newscast, you can expect a reason- 
able return. You also hope and desire that if 
they watch you in the morning, they will 
also watch you at night.” Jim Willi, gener- 
al manager, KPNX(TV) Phoenix, agrees: 
“Its kind of like the radio theory...you get 
them in the morning and you'll have them 
for the rest of the day."' Willi said that in 
the past 12 months, his competition in 
Phoenix has expanded their early morning 
news efforts. 

Whether or not viewers are getting up ear- 
lier in the morning, they are at least more 


inclined to tum on the TV. Roy Meyer,. 


executive vice president of Fairfax, Va.- 
based consultants McHugh & Hoffman, said: 
"Technology, cable alternatives and in- 
creased production... have increased their op- 
tions of when and how they watch news and 
have caused a shift from some of the tradi- 
tional news periods to other times of the 
day...there has been a decline primarily in 
the late-night East and West Coast newscasts 
and to a lesser degree in the 10 o'clock 
Midwest.” Those audiences are also watch- 
ing alternative, nonnetwork programing, 


EDWIN 


& COMPANY, 


Financial news. ^ 'we-par series on the 


television project of Brookside Productions 


nahon's fnanca outlook will be the first 
Lid, farmed by carry Grossman 


ormer 


oresident of bath NBC News and the Public Broadcasting Service. The series, The 
Dreyfus Roundtable, 5 sponsored by the Dreyfus Carp, a mutual tund manager, and will 
leature as moderator James Rogers. an irestment qun and professor at Columbia | 
University Business School. Pane:sts will incluce Leon Cooperman of Goldman Sachs & 

Co. and Jim Grant editor of Grant's Interest Rete Observer, Grossman sad there is & 
possibilty the show will be syncicated by GTG Entertainment. depending on its success 

The senes will intially run on several media: Financia News Network, audio- and 
videoca sseties and wCas-Tv New York, which has an option on continung Ihe show 


= 
which іп the same fourth-quarter comparison 
increased from a 5.4 rating to a 6.4. 

The competition for those who produce 
the a.m. news shows include, besides each 
other, exercise programs, cartoons, occa- 
sional sitcoms and religious programing. 
The obstacles include an audience that is in 
the process of getting dressed, making cof- 
fee and not necessarily watching the set. 
David Corvo, executive producer of CBS 
Morning News, said, ''We are aware that a 
lot of people are listening to us and so we 
don't do pieces where pictures *speak for 
themselves.’ If we do have an extraordinary 
piece of video, we make sure that people 
are told about it." 

John Lippman, news director, KIRO-TV 
Seattle, said, ‘‘The only people who get up 
and watch it straight through are probably 
my wife and 1. In the same way that morn- 
ing radio has a turnover probably every 20 
minutes, we construct our show so it is easy 
to get in and out of.”’ A task for those who 
produce morning news is to repeat news 
stories (including weather and traffic) often 
enough so that people or affiliates can leave 
the show, while putting in just enough vari- 
ety for those who want to stay through the 
entire show. 

Most of those producing the a.m. news 
shows at both the network and local level 
sée their service as both a recap of the 
previous night's news—for those who 
could not or would not watch at that time— 
and a preview of the news that will occur 
that day. Stations focus on local traffic con- 
ditions while the networks present more 
news of what happened overseas while 
those stateside were asleep. Patrick Roddy, 
executive producer of World News This 
Morning, said that some of that overseas 
news is business related: “еп we go on 
the air at 6, the price of gold has just been 
fixed in London....we do more business 
reporting than anywhere else on ABC News 
on a daily basis.” 


TORNBERG 
INC. 


Negotiators 
For The Purchase And Sale Of 
Radio And TV Stations * CATV * Appraisers 


Р.О. Вох 55298 Washington, D.C. 20011 


(202)291-8700 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 


While some local shows struggle against 
established competition and fail to find an 
audience, others completely dominate the 
market—wwL(TV) New Orleans obtained а 
14 rating/73 share at 6 a.m. in the May 
ratings book. 

m Ктвк‹ту) Houston, the Capcities- 
owned Station, pre-empts 30 minutes of sis- 

` ter division ABC's World News This Morn- 
ing to run an inexpensive yet successful 
half-hour show: a 7 rating/43 share in the 
November sweeps. All but five minutes of 
Good Morning Houston, Early Edition is 
reedited material, collected mostly from the 
previous days and weeks of the station's 
hour-long morning show, Good Morning 
Houston. Jim Mascucci, vice president of 
Capcities/ ABC owned stations Western di- 
vision, said, “We knew that the nine 
o'clock show had appeal to homemakers 
while the working woman or man isn't able 
to see it. '' Mascucci said the editing is done 
by one editor-producer, Louis Knight: “И 
probably takes him about three hours to do 
one show, and most of the time we are 8 to 
9 shows ahead in the can. If a piece runs for 
seven minutes on the 9 a.m. show, Knight 
may only want to use four minutes for 
Early Edition." Paul Paulicelli, news di- 
rector of competitor KPRC(TV), said that sta- 
tion has a more traditional early morning 
6:30 a.m. newscast. Produced by a news 
staff of five people, the show obtained a 5 
rating/22 share last May. 

я John Lippman, news director of CBS 
affiliate KIRO-TV Seattle, defends that sta- 
tion's decision to preempt the CBS Morning 
News and the last half hour of the network's 
Nightwatch: ‘‘We found that by doing our 
local 90 minutes, we are able to give CBS 
This Morning a better lead-in.'" Last Sep- 
tember, the show, First im the Morning 
News, was expanded to 90 minutes, starting 
half an hour earlier, at 5:30 a.m. Lippman 
said the show's latest ratings average a 
3/22, “а That's a big gain from a year 
earlier.” 

= Among the other of the networks’ 
owned stations that preempt the network 
morning show is KCNC(TV) Denver, which 
runs News Center 4 Today at 6-7 a.m., thus 
pushing back NBC Sunrise to 5 a.m. The 
station's news director, Marv Rockford, 
said, ''We believe that people want local 
news, weather and traffic information and 
we give it to them on a 20-minute wheel 
within the hour. ..information to get out the 
door." Rockford added, ‘‘You can't be 
considered the market leader in news if you 
aren't providing news in meaningful time 
periods. It is a positioning statement...even 
if we weren't doing local news, we would 
have to do something competitively and 1 
am not sure you would be successful with 
anything else.” о 


For the Record 


EDT аа 


As compiled by BROADCASTING from Jan. 5 
through Jan. || and based on filings. au- 
thorizations and other FCC actions. 


Abbreviations: AFC—Antenna For Communications: ALJ—Ad- 
ministrative Law Judge: alt.—alternate: ann.—announced: 
ant.—antenna: aur.—aural; aux.—auxiliary: ch.—«channel: 
CH—critical hours.: chg.—change: CP—construction permit: 
D—day: DA—directional antenna: Doc.—Docket: ERP—effec- 
tive radiated power, Freq—frequency: HAAT—height above 
average terrain: H&V—horizontal and vertical: khz—kilohertz: 
kw-—kilowatts: lic.—ticense; m—meters:; mhz—megahertz: 
mi.—miles: MP—modification permit: mod.—modification: 
N—night: pet. for recon.—petition for reconsideration: PSA— 
presunrise service authority: pwr.—power. RC—remote control: 
S-A—Scientific-Atlanta: SH—specified hours: SL—studio loca- 
tion; TL—transmitter location: trans.—transmitter: TPO—trans- 
mitter power output: U or unl.—unlimited hours: vis.— visual: 
w—watts: "—noncommercial. Six groups of numbers at end of 
facilities changes items refer to map coordinates. One meter 
equals 3.28 feet. 


Ownership Changes 


m WSFA Montgomery. AL (ВРСТ88 1228; ch. 12; 316 kw 
vis. 63.2 kw aur; 2,000V1.935g}—Seeks assignment of 
license from Cosmos Broadcasting Corp. to RSA Media 
Corporation for $70 million ("Іл Brief" Dec. 19. 1988). 
Seller is headed by Macon G. Patton. and is wholly owned 
subsidiary of The Liberty Corp. Liberty principals are 
Francis Hipp, W. Hayne Hipp and families. lt is Green- 
ville, S.C.-based group of seven TV's. Buyer is beaded by 
David G. Bronner. lt is affiliated with the Retirement 
System of Alabama, pension fund for state employees. 
Filed Dec. 28, 1988. 


m KKRV(FM) Kemville. CA (BALH881222HF: 102.3 
mhz; .130 kw; HAAT: 375 ft.)—Seeks assignment of li- 
cense from Kern Valley Broadcasting Co. to Lake Isabella 
Broadcasting Inc. for $187.000 subject to adjustment and 
other considerations. Seller is principally owned by Dave 
McClelland, president. It has no other broadcast interests. 
It put station on air in November 1985. Buyer is principally 
owned by Raymond Klotz, president, former chief engineer 
for KLAC(AM)-KLZA(FM) Los Angeles. KKRV is first 
purchase for buyer. Filed Dec. 22. 1988. 


€ KTXL(TV) Sacramento. CA (ВРСТ881228; ch. 40; 
5.000 kw VIS. 1000 kw: 1.962/1,968g)—Seeks assign- 
ment of license from Camellia City Telecasters Inc. to 
Channel 40 Licensee inc. for $56 million. Seller is wholly 
Owned subsidiary of BMA Corp.. Kansas City. MO-based 
insurance and medical testing laboratory company. lt also 
owns KDVR(TV) Denver. Stations were put on market last 
year ("In Brief," Oct. 10. 1988). Buyer is principally 
owned by Warburg, Pincus Capital Co. L.P. and Michael 
Finkelstein. И is purchasing WDZL(TV) Miami: 
WPGH(TV) Pittsburgh (‘Changing Hands." Oct. 24, 
1988), and WTXX(TV) Hartford-New Haven. CT. Filed 
Dec. 28. 1988. 


@ WTVM(TV) Columbus, GA (ВРСТ881228; ch. 9; 284 
kw vis, 52.5 kw aur; 1,650U1,749g)—Seeks assignment of 
license from Pegasus Broadcasting of Columbus. Georgia 
Inc. to WTVM Television Inc. for $45 million. Seller is 
Northbrook. IL-based group of one AM. one FM, and four 
TV's. Buyer is owned by John B. Amos, 6%; Paul S. 
Amos, 1.1%; Daniel P. Amos, 1.1%; Shelby Amos II. 
0.6%; William L. Amos Jr., 1%, and К. Lee Anderson 11. 
0.2%. Filed Dec. 28. 1988. 


8 KHEI(AM)-K VIB(FM) Maui, HI (AM: BAL881227EA: 
1110 khz; 5.00 kw; FM: BALH881227EA: 94.3 mhz: 3 
kw)—Seeks assignment of license from Encantada Broad- 
casting Corporation to Roger Whitehurst for $350.000. 
Seller is principally owned by William Sanders, it has no 
other broadcast interests. Buyer owns KAOI(FM) Wailuku 
and K244AG Maui, both Hawaii. Filed Dec. 27. 1988. 


а WNTR(AM) Silver Spring, MD (BAL881228EA: 1050 
khz; 1 kw-D, 500 w-N)—Seeks assignment of license from 
WNTR of Silver Spring Inc. to CBN Continental Broad- 
casting Network Inc. for $1.6 million. Seller is principally 
owned by Roger Kirven and James D. McCotter. It has no 
other broadcast interests. Buyer is owned by М.С. Robert- 
son, A.E. Robertson. Timothy B. Robertson, James Reid. 
Robert E. Johnson. Ted Charles Norman. [t also owns 


WYAHITV) Portsmouth and WXRI(FM) Norfolk. both 
Virginia. and KXTX-TV Dallas. TX. Filed Dec. 28, 1988. 


и KMRF(AM) Marshfield. MO (BAL881221: 1510 khz; 
250 w-n, DA:)—Seeks assignment of license from Basil Н 
Price to T.H. Media Inc. for $74.359.16. Seller has no 
Other broadcast interests. Buyer is owned by John P. 
Thompson. Carolynn D. Thompson. Philip S. Huffman 
and Sherry Huffman. It has no other broadcast interests. 
Filed Dec. 21, 1988. 


@ WJLK-AM-FM Asbury Park, NJ (AM: 
BAPL881227HG: 1310 khz; 2.5 kw-D. | kw-N. DA-2; 
FM: BAPLH881227HH; 94.3 mhz: 3 kw: 328 б.)—5еекѕ 
assignment of license from Presidents Broadcasting Co. to 
D & F Broadcasting Inc. for $12.5 million. Seller is owned 
by Asbury Park Press Inc., publisher of the Asbury Park 
Press , and also owns WKCF-TV Clermont. Fla., and has 
purchased, subject to FCC approval. WBUD(AM)- 
WKXW(FM) Trenton. N.J. Buyer is principally owned by 
Rick Devlin. former vice president and general manager of 
WOR(AM) New York, and Jon Ferrari. owner of Ferrari 
Inc.. New York-based advertising agency. It is also pur- 
chasing. subject to FCC approval. KODM-FM Odessa and 
KROD(AM)-KLAQ(FM) El Paso. both Texas. 


= WAKS(AM)-WAZZ-FM Fuquay-Varina, NC (AM: BA- 
L881220EC: 1460 khz: 5 kw-D; FM: BALH881220EB: 
103.9 mhz; 2.1 kw; 360 ft.}—Seeks assignment of license 
from Meca Broadcasting Inc. to Ceder Raleigh L.P. for 
$1.43 million ("In Brief’ Dec. 26, 1988). Seller is princi- 
pally owned by Mark Engledow and Tom Campbell. It has 
no other broadcast interests. Buyer is principally owned by 
Marvin Ceder and Jerry Ceder. Marvin Ceder has interest 
in WJYQ(FM) Moncks Corner. SC. Filed Dec. 20. 1988. 


8 WSMG(AM) Greeneville. TN (BTC881220ED: 1450 
khz: | kw-U)—Seeks transfer of control from David B. 
Lantz. VP-trust, First Tennessee Bank National Associa- 
tion. to Burley Broadcasters Inc. for $300.000. Seller has no 
other broadcast interests. Buyer is owned by Darrell Bryan 


and has no other broadcast interests. Filed Dec. 20. 1988 


m КТКЕ-ТУ Lufkin and KLTV Tyler. both Texas 
(BPCT881229; ch 9; 27.5 kw-V, 5.4 kw-A: 650v540g: 
KLTV: BPCT881229: ch 7: 316-V. 31.6 kw-A: 986v 
495g)—Seeks assignment of license from Buford TV Inc. 
to Civic Communications Corp. ll for $42 million 
("Changing Hands," Jan. 9). Seller is Tyler, TX-based 
group of three TV's owned by Robert P.. Gerald and 
Geoffrey К. Buford. It had an interest in buyer when 
company was initially formed. It also owns cable systems 
serving subscribers in Arkansas, Florida and Texas. Buyer 
is headed by Frank Melton. president and CEO. Melton 
worked for Buford pryor to joining Civic as general manag- 
ег of the two stations and president of broadcasting divi- 
sion. Filed Dec. 29. 1988. 


в WKZGIFM) Keyser. WV (BALH881228HI; 107.1 mhz: 
530 м; 783 ft. )—Seeks assignment of license from Jones- 
Powers Broadcasting 10 Keyser Broadcasting Inc. for 
$300.000. Seller is owned by Joseph Don Powers. C.J. 
Jones and Carolyn Jones. Joneses own Jones-Eastern Radio 
Inc.. Keyser. WV-based group of three AM's and four 
FM's. Buyer is owned by Charles D. McFall Jr.. and has 
по other broadcast interests. Filed Dec. 28. 1988. 


и WEST(AM)-WLEV(FM) Easton, WQWK-FM Universi- 
ty Park, WRSC(AM) State College, and WRKZ-FM Her- 
shey. all Pennsylvania, WTAD(AM)-WQCY-FM Quincy. 
IL: WWAZ(AM)-WWLI(FM) Providence. RI (WEST: 
1400 khz; | kw-U. DA-2; WLEV: 96.1 mhz: 50 kw: 500 
й.; WQWK-FM: 96.7 mhz: 3.2 kw; 170 ft.; WRSC(AM): 
1390 khz: 2.5 kw-D. DA: WTAD(AM): 930 khz; 5 kw-D. 
| kw-N. DA-N; WQCY: 99.5 mhz 27 kw; 750 ft.: 
WWAZ: 790 khz; 5 kw-U. DA-2; WWLI: 105.1 mhz; 50 
kw: 500 ft.: WRKZ(FM): 106.7 mhz: 50 kw; 500 ft.)— 
Seeks assignment of license from Eastern Broadcasting 
Corp. to TMZ Broadcasting Co. for $65 million (BROAD- 
CASTING. Oct. 24, 1988). Seller is owned by Roger 
Neuhoff. Buyer is owned by Robert E. Tudek. Everett 1. 


We give buyers 
powerful reasons to buy. 


When we put together a pre- 
sentation to help you sell your 
station, we don't just copy pages 
from the ratings books, Duncan, 
BIA and TV Factbook, and slap 
on à cover. 

We pick the material apart, 
analyze it, synthesize it. We ask 
ourselves, if we were going 

to buy, what would we want 

to know? 

We customize and editorialize, 
providing what-if scenarios and 
recapping pertinent information. 


In short, we generate less paper, but more reasons why the 
buyer should pay your price. 

We know who's looking to buy. So if you're looking to sell, 
give us your listing. We'll help you get the most net cash 


for your property. 


Frank Boyle & Со. 


MEDIA 


BROKERS 


55 Old Field Point Road, Greenwich, CT 06830 (203) 869-4433 


Broadcasung Jan 16 1989 
117 


Mundy, and Robert К. Zimmerman. Tudek owns 50% 
Tele-Media Corp. which either directly or through affiliates 
owns and operates various cable TV systems serving over 
300,000 subscribers throughout United States. Mundy 
Owns 50% Tele-Media Corp. Filed Dec. 22. 1988. 


Actions 


в WPMI-TV Mobile, AL (BALCT881026K: 15; 5000 kw; 
1706 ft.)—Granted app. of assignment of license from 
WPMI Television Co. to Clear Channel Television Inc. for 
approximately $9 million. Seller is headed by William L. 
Matheson. Buyer is principally owned by L. Lowry Mays. 
Clear Channel Communications Inc. is licensee of: 
WOAI(AM)-KAJA(FM) San Antonio, KPEZ(FM) Austin, 
KXTC(AM)-KHYS(FM) Port Arthur, KTAM(AM)-KOR- 
A(FM) Bryan, all Texas; KAKC(AM)-KMOD(FM) Tulsa. 
KTOK(AM)-KJYO(FM) Oklahoma City, both Oklahoma; 
WELI(AM) New Haven, CT; WQUE(AM)-WQUE(FM) 
New Orleans, LÀ, and WHAS(AM)-WAMZ(FM) Louis- 
ville, KY. Action Dec. 8, 1988. 


= WMPV(TV) Mobile, AL (BTCCT881007KO; 21; 2937 
kw; 1629 ft.) —Granted app. of assignment of license from 
Rel Way Ltd. to Rel Com Corporation for $3 million. 
Seller has no other broadcast interests. Buyer 15 owned by 
Doyle Brunson. Rel Com Corp. is permittee of WBUY-TV 
Holly Springs, MS. Action Dec. 9, 1988. 


= KXRQ(AM) Trumann, AR (BAL881103EC; 1530 khz; 
250 w-D DA)—Granted app. of assignment of license from 
Cate Communications Corp. to Eagle Communications Inc. 
for $137,500. Seller is owned by Jim Roberts and Kelly 
Webb. It has no other broadcast interests. Buyer is equally 
Owned by John J. Shields and John W. Shields. Action 
Dec. 19. 1988. 


8 KEZW(AM) Aurora and KOSI(FM) Denver, both Colo- 
rado (AM: ВАІ.881104ЕА; 1430 khz; 5 kw-U DA-N; FM: 
BALHS881104EB; 101.1 mhz; 100 kw; 790 ft.)—Granted 
app. of assignment of license from Group W Radio Inc. to 
D&D Broadcasting Inc. for $15.5 million (“In Brief" 
Nov. 14, 1988). Seller is New York-based group headed by 
Burton Staniar. It owns eight AM's, five FM's and four 
TV's. Buyer is owned by Steven Dinetz, 80%; Joseph 
Davidman, 16%, and Matthew L. Leibowitz, 3%. 
Leibowitz is 6% shareholder of southern Broadcast Group 
Inc., which owns 22.5% WWSB(TV) Sarasota, FL. Action 
Dec. 19, 1988. 


8 KWSP(FM) Santa Margarita, CA (BALH881110GY: 
106.3 mhz; 93 м; HAAT: 1467 ft.)—Granted app. of 


assignment of license from Mid-Coast Radio Inc. to Hance 
Communications Ltd. for $1.26 million. Seller is owned by 
Sam G. Idas and William Wikerson. It has no other broad- 
cast interests. Buyer is owned by Jets Wireless Inc. It has 
no other broadcast interests. Action Dec. 20, 1988. 


E WLCF(AM) Eustis. FL (BAL880926EE:; 1240 khz; 1 
kw-U)—Granted app. of assignment of license from Lake 
Media Inc. to WKLE Inc. for $200,000. Seller is owned by 
Dalton C. Wright. who has no other broadcast interests. 
Buyer is owned by Hugh E. Reams. 95%. and William D. 
Elliott, 5%. Action Dec. 14, 1988. 


в WTMC(AM) Ocala, FL (BAL881018EB; 1290 khz; 5 
kw-D 1 kw-N DA-2)—Granted app. of assignment of li- 
cense from William Hunter et al to Sunstar Telecom Inc. 
for $625,000. Seller has no other broadcast interests. Buyer 
is owned by Gary Cooper, 28.4995; Charles A. Zimmer- 
man and Cynthia Zimmerman, 28.4956 jointly held. It has 
no other broadcast interests. Dec. 21. 1988. 


® WCCF(AM)-WQLM-FM Punta Gorda. FL (АМ; 
BAL880831HS; 1580 khz; 1 kw-D. DA; FM: 
BALH880831HT; 92.7 mhz; 3 kw; 156 ft.)—Granted app. 
of assignment of license from Ogden Broadcasting of Flori- 
da Inc. to WQLM-FM Inc. for $3.1 million. Seller is 
principally owned by C. Ogden Nutting. Buyer is owned by 
Carl J. Marcocci and Betty Marcocci. Carl J. Marcocci 
owns WGUL(AM) Dunedin and WGUL-FM New Port 
Richey, both Florida. and WSGA(AM)-WZAT(FM) Sa- 
vannah, GA. Action Dec. 8, 1988. 


в WWAV(FM) Santa Rosa Beach. FL 
(BAPLH881110GV; 102.3 mhz; 3 kw; HAAT: 328 ft.)— 
Granted app. of assignment of license from Carter Broad- 
casting Inc. to Emerald Coast Communications Inc. for 
$1.65 million ("Changing Hands" Nov. 21, 1988). Seller 
is owned by Mark Carter and family. It has no other 
broadcast interests. Buyer is owned by Thomas Birch, 
70%; Raymond Quinn, 30%. Action Dec. 20, 1988. 


® KIKKAM)-KMAI(FM) Honolulu, HI (BAL881 1OIED; 
830 khz; 10 kw-U: BALH8811IO0IEE: 93.9 mhz: 100 kw; 
HAAT: 42 ft.)—Granted арр. of assignment of license 
from Island Communications Corp. to Henry Hawaii 
Broadcasting Co. for $4.1 million. Purchase includes 
$750.000 noncompete agreement. Seller is owned by John 
B. and Kathleen Parker. It also has interest in KTCJ(AM)- 
KTCZ-FM Minneapolis; KXTZ(FM) Henderson. NV; KA- 
HKAM)-KHYL(FM) Auburn, CA. Buyer is owned by 
Henry Broadcasting Co.. 75%. and Casey Stangl, 25%. 


Vinrah, Inc. 


from 


has acquired 


WCMC/WZXL 
Wildwood/Atlantic City, New Jersey 


Bear Broadcasting Co. 


for 


$4,350,000 


We are pleased to have brokered this transaction. 


Nationwide Media Brokers 


арпа 


Corporate Offices • Washington, DC • 202/822-1700 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
118 


Charlton H. Buckley owns Henry Broadcasting Co. Henry 
Broadcasting Co. owns KYTE-AM-FM Portland, OR; 
KVOD(FM) Denver, CO; KFXM(AM)-KDUO-FM San 
Bernardino-Riverside, and  KDON-AM-FM Salinas, 
KMNXAM)-KFYE(FM) Fresno, all California, and KFA- 
B(AM)-KGOR(FM) Omaha, NE. Action Dec. 20, 1988. 
В WIBV(AM) Belleville, IL (BTC881101EB; 1260 khz; 5 
kw-U, DA-2)—Granted assignment of license from Belle- 
ville Broadcasting Co. to Metro Broadcasting Inc. for 
$600,000. Seller is headed by Marshall True. Buyer is 
owned by David D. Embry, 32%; Emert L. Wyss, 32%; 
Howard Linker, 31%. and Barry Baker, 5%. It has no other 
broadcast interests. Action Dec. 19, 1988. 


в KKRD(FM) Wichita, KS (BALH881027HB; 107.3 mhz; 
100 kw; 884 ft.}—Granted app. of assignment of license 
from Yellow Brick Radio Corp. to KKRD Inc. for $4 
million. Seller is owned by Osborn COmmunications, New 
York-based group of five AM's, seven FM's and one TV. 
It is principally owned by Frank Osborn. Buyer is owned 
by Sherman Broadcasting Corp., which is principally 
owned by Robert B. Sherman, 70.1%; Emanuel $. Cher- 
ney, and Osborne Communications Corp., 4.9%; Ocean 
Capital Corp., 25.95. Action Dec. 9, 1988. 

в WOAM(AM) Elkton, KY (ВАРІ.881018ЕА; [070 khz; 
250 w-D}—Granted app. of assignment of license from 
B&E Broadcasting Inc. to M&R Broadcasting Inc. for 
$57,000. Seller is headed by Ernest B. Asworth. Buyer is 
Owned by Marshall E. Sidebottom and Ruby Sidebottom. 
Marshall E. Sidebottom owns 51% of licensee of WIR- 
V(AM) Irvine, KY. Action Dec. I9, 1988. 

в KZZM(AM) Tallulah, LA (BAL880620EC; 1360 khz; 
500W-D)—Granted app. of assignment of license from 
Fred Huenefeld Jr., trustee to Sharing Inc. for $103,000. 
Seller has no other broadcast interests. Buyer is owned by 
Tommy F. Johnson, who also owns WQBC(AM) Vicks- 
burg. MS. Action Dec. 15, 1988. 

в WSDL(AM) Slidell, LA (BAL881025EG; 1560 khz; 1 
kw-U, DA-N)—Granted app. of assignment of license 
from Inter American Broadcasters Inc. to North Lake Com- 
munications Inc. for $414,000. Seller is headed by George 
Mayoral. Buyer is owned by Charles Р. Zewe, 37.5%; 
Robert R. Faucheux Jr., 37.5%; Marie L. Gregson. 20.0%. 
and Randy P. Roussel, 5.0%. It has no other broadcast 
interests. Action Dec. 15, 1988. 

® KNEK(AM) Washington, ГА (BAL881IO4ED; 1190 
kha: 250 w-D)—Granted assignment of license from Ma- 


BOSTON 
617/330-7880 
Kevin Cox ® Bob Macciai 


WASHINGTON 
202/822-1700 
Miu Younts + Kent Replogle 
Bill Cate 


ATLANTA 


404/698-9100 
Ernie Pearce • Ed Shaffer 


JACKSONVILLE 
904/730-2522 
Jim Brewer * George Reed 


DALLAS 
214/788-2525 
Bill Whitley 


LOS ANGELES 
818/893-3199 
David LaFrance ® Jim Mergen 
Ray Stanfield 


KANSAS CITY 
816/932-5314 
Bill Lytle 


SALT LAKE CITY 
801/753-8090 
Greg Merrill 


mou Broadcasting Inc. to David В. Price. Seller is headed 
by J.L Sylvester. Buyer has no other broadcast interests. 
Action Dec. 19. 1988. 


в WESO(AM)-WQVR(FM) Southbridge. МА (АМ: 
BAL881104GK: 970 khz; 1 kw-D: FM: BALHS81104GL; 
100.1 mhz: 3 kw: 295 ft. Granted app. of assignment of 
license of Eastem Media Inc. to John R. Neuhoff Ir. for 
$1.1 million. Seller is owned by John Neuhoff Sr. Buyer is 
owned by John R. Neuhoff Jr., who is 13.4%, owner and 
director of Eastern Broadcasting Corp.. which through var- 
ious subsidiaries has following broadcast interests: 90% of 
WWAZ(AM)-WWLI(FM) Providence, RI: WCVS(AM)- 
WFMB(FM) Springfield. iL: 80% of WRSC(AM)- 
МОКЕМ) State College, PA; 83% of WRKZ(FM) Eli- 
zabethtown. PA; 90% of WEST(AM)-WLEV(FM) Easton, 
PA; WTAD(AM)}-WQCY(FM) Quincy. IL. Group is being 
sold to TMZ Broadcasting Co. (see above). Action Dec. 
20, 1988. 


a WSTR-AM-FM Sturgis. MI (BAL881110HF: 1230 khz; 
] kw-U. БА-1; FM: BALH881110HG; 99.3 mhz; 1.4 kw; 
HAAT: 390 fi.)—Granted assignment of license from Wa- 
ter Wonderland Broadcasting Co. to Forum Communica- 
tions Inc. for $370,000. Seller is principally owned by Ken 
Kahey. Buyer is owned by Robert P. Brink, 35%; Вепеп J. 
Elzinga, 35%; James R. Higgs, 15%. Marc Rosseels, 15%. 
It also owns WQXC-AM-FM Otsego. and WBNZ(FM) 
Frankfort, both Michigan. Action Dec. 19, 1988. 


® WKRA(AM)-WKRA(FM) Holly Springs, MS 
(BAL881107GF; 1110 khz; | kw. FM: BALH881107GG: 
92.7 mhz: 3 kw: HAAT: 357 ft.)—Granted assignment of 
license from Michael L. Davis and Suzanne W. Davis to 
Ralph H. Doxey and John Robert Greer for $330.000. 
Seller has no other broadcast interests. Buyer has no other 
broadcast interests. Action Dec. 19, 1988. 


= WEED(AM)-WRSV(FM) Rocky Mount, NC 
(BTC881115HV:; 1390 khz; $ kw-D 2.5 kw-N DA-N; FM: 
BTCH881115HW; 92.1 mhz; 1.7 kw; 380 ft.)—Granted 
app. of assignment of license from Radio Station Weed Inc. 
to Northstar Broadcasting Inc. for $852,000. Seller is prin- 
cipallyowned by William A. Wynne. Buyer is owned by 
Charles O. Johnson, and has no other broadcast interests. 
Action Dec. 20, 1988. 


а WRQN(FM) Bowling Green, OH (BALHB81109HA; 
93.5 mhz; 3 kw; 176 ft.) Статей app. of assignment of 
license from WRQN Inc. ю ABS Communications Inc. for 
52.685 million (‘п Brief" Nov. 21, 1988). Price includes 
$625,000 noncompete agreement. Seller is principally 
owned by John R. Linn. It has interest in WKAZ(AM)- 
WKLC(FM) St. Albans, WV, and WABQ(AM) Cleveland. 
Buyer is owned by Jon B. Sinton, Kenneth A. Brown, 
Ginger J. Sinton and Toby O. Brown. ABS Communica- 
tions Inc. is general partner of El Paso Radio Associates 
Lid., licensee of KROD(AM)-KLAQ({FM) El Paso. TX. 
Action Dec. 20, 1988. 


в WMPO-AM-FM  Middleport-Pomeroy, ОН (АМ: 
BAL881114HH; 1390 khz; 5 kw-D: FM: BALH881114HI; 
92.1 mhz; 3 kw; 370 ft.)—Granted app. of assignment of 
license from Radio Mid-Pom Inc. to ET Broadcasting Inc. 
for $600,000. Seller is headed by John Kerr. Buyer is 
owned by Leonard К. Eliason. 70%; Robert Tatone, 25%, 
and Leonard О. Eliason, 5%. It has no other broadcast 
interests. Action Dec. 20, 1988. 


в KTLQ(AM)-KEOK(FM) Tahlequah, ОК (AM: BA- 
1881103ЕА: 1350 khz; | kw-D; FM: BALH88]103EB; 
101.7 mhz; 3 kw; 300 ft.) Granted app. of assignment of 
license from KTLQ Radio Inc. to Demaree Communica- 
tions Inc. for $394,040. Seller is owned by Ralph Lynch. 
who has no other broadcast interests. Buyer is owned by 
Paul S. Demaree and Martha L. Demaree, jointly held. It 
has no other broadcast interests. Action Dec. 14, 1988. 


в WWBD(AM) Bamberg. SC (BTC881 103HH; 790 khz; 1 
kw-D)—Granted app. of assignment of license from Viking 
Broadcasting Corp. to Stewart Freeman for $26,523. Seller 
is headed by Noah Freeman. Buyer is owned by Stewart 
Freeman, 79.5%, and Robert Simpkins, 20.5%. Freeman is 
80% owner of WGTN(AM)-WSYN(FM) Georgetown. SC; 
WPGO(AM) Shallotte, NC, and WPFR(AM)-WYTL(FM) 
Terre Haute, IN. Action Dec. 20, 1988. 


а WMOC(AM) Chattanooga, TN (BAL881024EB; 1450 
khz; 1 kw-U:)—Granted app. of assignment of license from 
Dr. D. Stephen Hollis to Johnny Godgiben for $400,000. 
Seller has no other broadcast interests. Buyer has no other 
broadcast interests. Action Dec. 20. 1988. 


а WSDC(AM) Hartsville, SC (BAL881004ED; 1490 khz; 
1 kw-D)—Granted app. of assignment of license from 
Community Broadcasting Co. of Hartsville to Bell Broad- 
casting Co. for $1,875. Seller is headed by Harold Bledsoe. 
Buyer is owned by John J. Bell, who bas 40% interest in 
WJHB(AM) Fair Bluff, NC. Action Dec. 15, 1988. 


в WIRD(AM)-WLPW(FM) Lake Placid, NY (АМ: 
BAL88I0I4GH; 920 khz; 5 kw-D DA-D; FM: 
BALH881014GI; 105.5 mhz: 3.2 kw)—Granted app. of 


assignment of license from WIRD Inc. to Adirondack Net- 
work Systems Inc. for $1 million. Seller is owned by 
Donald and Kitty Nardiello. Buyer is owned by Dennis M. 
Ryan, president and general manager; Robert P. Ambro- 
sini, Richard M. Feldman, Frederick J. Graber, Philip 
Saunders, Martin Stone, and Serge Lussi. И has no other 
broadcast interests. Action Dec. 8, 1988. 


® KHIT(AM) Sun Valley, and KIIQ(FM) Reno. both Ne- 
vada (ВА1881031ЕА; 1590 khz; 5 kw-D; BAL- 
H881031EB: 104.5 mhz; 25 kw; 2930 ft.)—Granted app. 
of assignment of license from KSRN Corp. to Reno Broad- 
casting joint venture for $2.5 million. Seller is owned by 
Olympic Broadcasting Corp., Seattle-based group of five 
AM's and cifght FM's headed by James Ireland. Buyer is 
principally owned by Reno Radio Investors. Action Dec. 
12, 1988. 


8 WMIY(FM) Long Branch, NJ (BALH881101GF; 107.1 
mhz; 3 kw; HAAT: 400 ft.)— Granted app. of assignment 
of license from Mammoth Broadcasting Inc. to К & К 
Broadcasting L.P. for $3.9 million. Seller is owned by 
Jonathan and Elizabeth Hoffman. И also owns WJBX(AM) 
Bridgeport, CT. Buyer is principally owned by Donald L. 
Kelly and Jerome Koeppel. It also owns WHDZ(AM)- 
WXKC(FM) Erie, PA. Action Dec. 19, 1988. 


в WDGE(FM) Saranac Lake, NY (BAPH860418GI; 101.7 
mhz; 3 kw; 328 ft.) —Cranted app. of assignment of license 
from Clark Broadcasting Co. to Q-Tone Broadcasting 
Corp. for $1.295 million. Buyer is owned by Alvin M. 
Chanin, 25%; Anthony Г. Quartarone. 25%; Ralph M. 
Caliri 8-1/3%; William W. Webber, 8-1/3%; Robert S. 
Herskowitz, 16-2/3%, and Myron Н. Deutsch 16-2/3%. 
Action Dec. 13, 1988. 


а WCGC(AM) Belmont, NC (BTC881019EA; 1270 khz; 5 
kw-D 500 w-N DA-2}—Granted app. of assignment of 
license from Hilker Broadcasting Inc. to Robert R. Hilker 
Sr. for $1,000. Seller is owned by Robert Hilker Jr. Buyer 
also owns: 51.77% of licensee of WJJJ(AM) Christians- 
burg. VA; 51.77% of licensee of WVVV(FM) Blacksburg, 
VA; 61.2% of licensee of WYNR(AM)-WPIQ(FM) Bruns- 
wick, СА; 62.17% of licensee of WDIX(AM)-WORG(FM) 
Orangeburg, SC; 62.17% of licensee of WSTX-AM-FM 
Christiansted. VI; 33.3% of licensee of WABZ(FM) Albe- 
marle, NC, and 5% of licensee of WEGO(AM) Concord, 
NC. Action Dec. 16, 1988. 


® WLSH(AM) Lansford, РА (BAL880516EH; 1410 khz; 5 
kw-D, DA)}—Granted app. of assignment of license from 


Pocono Anthracite Communications Inc. to East Penn 
Broadcasting Inc. for $300.000. Seller is headed by Bud 
Angst. Buyer is owned by Harold С. Fulmer Ш, Boyd С. 
Hixson. Fulmer is sole stockholder of WOBG(AM)- 
WQXA(FM} York, WXKW(AM) Allentown, and 
WMGH(FM) Tamaqua, all Pennsylvania. Action Dec. 9, 
1988. 


@ WAJN(AM) Ashland City. TN (BAL881107EA; 790 
khz; 500 w-D}—Granted app. of assignment of license 
from Reese Broadcasting Co. to Josef Roberts, Trustee for 
$no consideration. Seller is owned by Kerry Reese 
McCarver. Buyer has no other broadcast interests. Action 
Dec. 19, 1988. 


в WJAK(AM) Jackson, TN (BTC880919EJ; 1460 khz; 1 
kw-D)—Granted app. of transfer of control from Fred A. 
Threet Jr., Alfred (Pat) Roberson and Beaulah Hannis to 
Harold H. Allen. et al for $226.000. Seller has no other 
broadcast interests. Buyer is equally owned by Harold H. 
Allen, Patricia A. Allen, Dorothy Г. Herbert. Action Dec. 
12, 1988. 


a WJAK(AM) Jackson, TN (BAL880607ED; 1460 khz; | 
kw-D)— Dismissed assignment of license from Zamar Inc. 
to Vision Enterprises for $70,000. Buyer is owned by 
Raymond R. Haney and Janet Thompson. Action Dec. 8, 
1988. 


æ WLAF(AM) Lafollette, TN (BAL871116EC; 1450 khz; 
1 kw-U)—Granted app. of assignment of license from 
Campbell County Broadcasting Corp. to Stair Company 
Inc. for $125,000. Seller is headed by Jack Mills. Buyer is 
owned by James Е. Stair, who also owns 42.5% of Oncida 
Broadcasteres lnt., licensee of WBNT-AM-FM Oneida, 
TN. Action Dec. 15, 1988. 


= KIXL(AM) Del Valle, TX (BAPL881027EE; 970 khz; 1 
kw-D)}—Granted app. of assignment of license from En- 
core Communications Associates L.P. to KIXL Partners 
Lid. for $1.5 million. Seller is West Palm Beach, FL-based 
group of four AM's and five FM's. Buyer is owned by 
Signature Broadcasting Co., Louis K. Brandt, William E. 
Daniels, Lawrence G. Fraser and Noel Graubart. Signature 
Broadcasting Co. has interest in WMXP(FM) New Ken- 
singion, PA; WRMX(FM) Murfreesboro, TN, and 
WMFX(FM) St. Andrews, SC. Action Dec. 12, 1988. 
= KROD(AMKKLAQ(FM) El Paso, TX (KROD: 
BALB8RIOI9ED; 600 khz; 5 kw-U, DA-N; KLAQ: BAL- 
H881019EE; 95.5 mhz; 88 kw; HAAT: 1390 ft.)—Secks 


You Are Cordially Invited To Attend A Seminar 


Tax ISSUES AFFECTING 
COMMUNICATIONS ACQUISITIONS 


Presented By 
Frazier, Gross & Kadlec/Broadcast Investment Analysts 
Dow, Lohnes & Albertson 
Deloitte Haskins & Sells 
Verner, Lüpfert, Bernhard, McPherson & Hand 
Bank of Boston 


In Los Angeles 
"Thursday, February 16, 1989 
The Beverly Hills Hotel 
Breakfast Sponsored By Deloitte Haskins & Sells 


In Denver 
Friday, February 17, 1989 
The Westin Hotel Taber Center 
Breakfast Sponsored By Pat Thompson Company 


To Confirm A Reservation, Please Call 
Sandra Freschi (404) 874-2785 
Jonathan Intrater (703) 478-5880 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1988 
119 


assignment of license from El Paso Radio Associates L.P. 
to D&F Broadcasting Inc. tor $$ million ("Changing 
Hands" Oct. 31, 1988). Seller is principally owned by 
Kenneth Brown and Jon Sinton. Buyer is owned by Robert 
Н. Devlin and Jon Ferrari. It is purchasing WPVA(AM)- 
WKHK(FM) Colonial Heights. VA. Action Dec. 9. 1988. 


в KTHP(TV) Longview. TX (BAPCT881028KJ: 54: 5000 
kw: HAAT: 1616 ft.)—QGranted. app. of assignment of 
license from Channel 54 Broadcasting to Atkins Broadcast- 
ing for $100.000. Seller is owned by Inga R. Hernandez, 
who has no other broadcast interests. Buyer also owns 
KRGN(FM) Amarillo, TX. Action Dec. 13. 1988. 


и KODM-FM Odessa. TX (BALH881027HA: 97.9 mhz; 
100 kw; 360 ft.)—Granted app. of assignment of license 
from East-West Broadcasting Co. to D&F Broadcasting 


Services 


FCC ON-LINE DATABASE 


dataworld 


Atocaton Terrain Studies 
АМ eFMeTVeLPTV ө ITFS 
4827 Rugby Ave Sore 200 
Bethesaa MD 20814 
(301) 652-8822 1.800 368-5754 


RAMTRONIX, INC. 
Connector Supplier 
to the Broadcast Industry 


Kings/ITT Cannon 
67 Jetryn Blvd. E. 
Deer Park, М.Ү. 11729 
(516) 242-4700 


&'Talatech inc. 


BROADCAST CONSULTANTS AND ENGINEERS 


ө FCC Appi-cations ало Fei Engineering 

ө Frequency Searches ana Coordination 

© lower Erection ana Mantenance 

ә Баспиу Des:gn ano Constructor 
Contact 
KENNETH W HOENN 23400 Mich Ave 
pn MM Deaton MI 48124 


ум ч A 
* Radio and Television System Design 
» Transmitter and Studio Insiatlation 
* Microwave апа Satellite 
Engineering and Installation 
12 North Willow St. 


201-746-9307 Montclair, NJ 07042 


PROFESSIONAL VIDEO SERVICES 


* Complete Video Tape Production 
a 40' x 40' Acoustic Studio-Light Gnd 
a Satellite & Local Teleconferencing. 
Downtown Pt to Pt Transmission 


) AMERICAN 
4 TOE 


3030 Rooseven Ave + indianapolis IN 46218 » (317) 632-2288 
Ал Amencan венки & Commumcatons Corp 


Franklyn R. Beemish & Co. 
Engineering for Television & Radio 
FACILITIES AND SYSTEMS DESIGN & IMPLEMENTATION 
ANALOG DIGITAL VIDEO. AUDIO, HDTV 
ARCHTECTURAL ENGINEERING 
ELECTRICAL. HVAC, ACOUSTICAL 
574 Sunrise Highway, Baldwin, NY 11510 516/867-8510 


DON'T BE A STRANGER 
To Broadcastings 116,427" Readers. 
Display your Professional or Service Card 
here. It will be seen by station and cable TV 
system owners and decision makers 
* 1986 Readership Survey showing 3.5 
readers per copy 


Inc. for $2.55 million. Buyer is principally owned by 
Robert Н. Devlin Jr. and Jon Ferran. lt is also purchasing 

КАО Ae Е! Paso (see above). Action Dec. 
. 1988. 


в KRXX-FM Marlin, TX (BALH881011GY; 96.7 mhz; 3 
kw; 300 ft.)—Granted app. of assignment of license from 
Crowder Broadcasting Corp. to Cin-Lynn Properties Inc. 
for $410,266. Seller is owned by Ron Crowder. Buyer is 
owned by Larry D. Vardeman, Cindy P. Vardeman, Lynn 
Parks and Charles K. Williams. Action Dec. 7, 1988. 


п WTTX-AM-FM Арротанох, УА (АМ 
BAL881110GT; 1280 khz; | kw-D. DA; FM: 
BALH881110GU; 107.1 mhz; 3 kw; 300 ft.) —Granted 
app. of assignment of license from HTB Inc. to CLL Inc. 
for $350.000. Seller is headed by Phyllis Giles. Buyer is 


BROADCAST DATA SERVICES 
Computerized Broadcast Service 
Including 
Data Base: Allocation Studies 
Terrain Profiles 
A Div. of море. Larson & Juhmon, tac 


703 824-5666 


UNUSED 


CALL LETTERS 
CALL 


datawoeld’ 


1-800—368-5754 


MAILING LABELS 


AM, FM & TV 
CALL 


dataworld’ 


1-800—368-5754 


SOFTWARE 


FM Database. modem updates by BD S 
MSDOS - EGA-Graphics - Color 


v Doug Vernier 
Broadcaat Consultee: 
1600 Prctureaque Orive* 
Cedar Falla, lows 50613 
319 266-7435 


FULL TIME 
UPLINK SERVICES 


$9988/month 
from Dallas 
Call 1-800-328-2546 


RF Specialties: 


OF TEXAS. 


Technical Services 


System Design • Competitive Pricing 
Turnkey Installation * Major Construction 
AMARILLO. TEXAS * 806-372-4518 


contact 
BROADCASTING MAGAZINE 
1705 DeSales St., N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
for avallabilities 
Phone: (202) 659-2340 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
120 


owned by Terry L. Cook, Lynnwood Bennett. Bradford 
Carwile. Walker A. Shupe. Scott Dean, Walter Davenport. 
It has no other broadcast interests. Action Dec. 21, 1988. 


в WPAK(AM) Farmville. УА (AM: BAL881014EB: 1490 
khz: | kw-D 250 w-N ОА-1)—Огаштей app. of assignment 
of license from Alan Smith Jr.. trustee in bankruptcygreat 
for United Communications Inc. debtor to Great Sports Inc. 
for $148,000. Seller has no other broadcast interests. Buyer 
is owned by Gilbert L. Granger Thomas M. Smith. Ann И. 
Granger, Josie G. Smith. Gilbert L. Granger amd Thomas 
M. Smith each own 50% of WMBG Inc., licensee of 
WMBG(AM) Williamsburg. VA. Action Dec. 14, 1988. 


New Stations 


- 


m Springfield, MN (BPH881221MD)—James Ingstad 
Broadcasting Inc. seeks 105.7 mhz; 3 kw: 100 m. Address: 
2302 15th St. South, Fargo, ND 58013. Principal is owned 
by James Ingstad and Jack Ingstad. James Ingstad also has 
interest in KNUJ(AM)-KXLP(FM) New Ulm. MN; KWA- 
D(AM)-KKWS(FM) Wadena, KQHT(FM) Crookston, all 
Minnesota, КЕКА(АМ)-КЗОКЕМ) Greeley. CO. Jack 
Ingstad has interest in KOVC-AM-FM Valley City. ND. 
and KWAD(AM)-KKWS(FM), Wadena, MN. Filed Dec 
21, 1988. 


B Huntsville, TX (BPH881221ME)—Mildred D. Hall 
seeks 94.9 mhz: 3. kw; 100 m. Address: 1636 Whiskey 
Creek Drive, Fort Myers, FL 33919. Principal has no 
other broadcast interests. Filed Dec. 21, 1988. 


m Spencer, WV (BPH881221MC)—Donald Lee Mills 
seeks 104.7 mhz; 3 kw; 100 m. Address: P.O. Box 173. 
Salem, WV 26426. Principal also owns 90% interest in 
WBES(FM) Dunbar. WV. Filed Dec. 21, 1988. 


m New Ulm, TX (BPH881216NS)—New Ulm Broadcast- 
ing seeks 92.3 mhz; 3 kw; 100 m. Address: P.O. BOX 99, 
Bellville, TX 73418. Principal 1$ owned by Dinah L. 
Dittert. Filed Dcc. 16. 1988. 


® Baker. LA (BPH881215NN)—Baker Communications 
Partnership seeks 107.3 mhz; 3 kw; 100 m. Address: 933 
Sunshine Drive, Baker, LA 70714. Principal is owned by 
Albert G. Carson IV. Charles R. Hall Sr. and Lucille M. 
Hall. Filed Dec. 15, 1988. 


п Baker, LA (BPH881215NQ)—Rupert of East Baton 
Rouge Broadcasting L.P. seeks 107.3 mhz: 3 kw; 100 m. 
Address: 2828 Juban Ave., Baton Rouge. LA 70805. Prin- 
cipal is owned Rupert Richardson and has no other broad- 
cast interests. Filed Dec. 15. 1988. 


в Baker, LA (BPH88121 SNP)— Bear Broadcasting of Lou- 
isiana Inc. seeks 107.3 mhz; 3 kw; 100 m. Address: 6957 
Goodwood Ave.. Baton Rouge. LA 70806. Principal is 
owned by Pamela Elias Flynn. Filed Dec. 15. 1988 


m Verona, WI (BPH881215NM) Roger Kluge seeks 
105.5 mhz; 3 kw; 100 m. Address: 6691 Highland Drive. 
Winsor, WI 53598. Princlpal has no other broadcast inter- 
ests. Filed Dec. 15. 1988. 


B Verona, Wl (BPH881215NH)—Key Communications 
Corp. seeks 105.5 mhz: 3 k«; 100 m. Address: 5080 
Rosecrest Drive. Pittsburgh, PA 15201. Principal is owned 
by Constance W. Balthrop. It has no other broadcast inter- 
2515. Filed Dec. 15, 1988. 


a Moore, OK (BPED881223MA)—Creative Educational 
Media Corp. Inc. seeks 88.1 mhz; 180 m. Address: 11717 
5. 129 E. Ave., Broken Arrow, ОК 74011. Principal is 
owned by Gerald David Ingles, Ronald G. Zirkle and 
Sharon B. Ingles. Filed Dec. 23. 1988. 


в Camden, AR (BPH881220MD)}—Gary D. Coates seeks 
104.5 mhz; 3 kw; 100 m. Address: P.O. Box 659, Fordyce, 
AR 71742. Principal has no other broadcast interest. Filed 
Dec. 20, 1988. 


п Huntsville, TX (ВРН881222МВ)—Нееп Maryse Casey 
seeks 94.9 mhz; 3 kw; 100 m. Address: Route 2, Box 213, 
Huntsville, TX 77340. Principal has no other broadcast 
interests. l'iled Dec. 22, 1988. 


в Walpole, NH (BPH881216N'T)—Bruce M. Lyons seeks 
96.3 mhz; 1.4 kw; 147 m. Address: 314 Ivy Place, 100 
Wolf Rd., Lebanon, NH. Principal has no other broadcast 
interests. Filed Dec. 16, 1988. 


в Waunakee, WI (BP11881215)—Roger Kluge seeks 105.1 
mhz; 3 kw; 100 m. Address: 6691 Highland Drive, Winsor. 
WI 53598. Principal has no other broadcast interests. Filed 
Dec. 15, 1988. 


® Albuquerque, MN (BPCT881223)—Mary Moran seeks 
ch. 50; 1439 kw; 1265 m. Address: 4012 88th Place, 
Lubbock, TX 79413. Principal has KJTV Lubbock, TX 
KRSY Roswell, NM. Ray Moran applicant's husband, has 
interest in LPTVTV translator stations: KO7TZ, K77BL. 
K79BB, all Snyder, and K47CF Hobb. K66DB Seminole, 


Professional Cards 


du Treil Lundin, & Rackley, Inc. 
A Subsidiary of A. D. Ring. P.C. 
1019 19th Street, N.W. 

Third Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
Telephone: 202/223-6700 
Facsimile: 202/466-2042 

Member AFCCE 


SILLIMAN AND SILLIMAN 
8121 Georgia Ave. #700 
Silver Spring. MD 20910 


ROBERT M. SILLIMAN. P.E. 
(301) 589-8288 


THOMAS B. SILLIMAN. Р.Е. 
(B12) 853.9754 


Member AFCCE 


JOHN В. HEFFELFINGER 


9233 Ward Parkway, Suite 285 
616-444-7010 
Kansas City, Missour 64114 


Member AFCCE 


E. Harold Munn, Jr., 
& Associates, Inc. 
Broadcast Engineering Consuftants 
Box 220 
Coldwater, Michigan 49036 
Phone: 517—278-7339 


ENTERPRISE ENGINEERING РС. 
Consulting Engineers 


EW. HANNEL, PE 
РО. Box 9001 Peoria, IL 61614 
(309) 691-4155 


Member AFCCE 


D.C. WILLIAMS 
& ASSOCIATES, INC. 


Солаш Engineers 
AM-FM-TV-LPTV-CATV 
POST OFFICE Box 700 


FOLSOM, CALIFORNIA 95630 
(916) 933-5000 


PAUL DEAN FORD. PE. 
BROADCAST ENGINEERING CONSULTANT 
R.R. 12, Box 351 
WEST TERRE HAUTE, INDIANA 47885 
812-535-3831 
Member АРССЕ 


rr 
A hensen of Scarce дозаси Fara Coon 


CONSULTING ENGINEERS 


TRO! YARN'WOOD COURT 
SPRINGFIELD . VA. 22153 
(7099569 - 7704 
MEMBER AFCCE 


5 
Fails Church, Vi 
793 824-5660 


Member АРССЕ 


JULES COHEN 
& ASSOCIATES, PC, 
Suite 400 
1730 M St. N.W. 
Washington DC 20036 
1202} 659.3707 
Member AFCCE 


ROSNER TELEVISIÓN 
SYSTEMS 
CONSULTING & ENGINEERING 


250 west 57 Street 
New York, М.Ү. 10107 
(212) 246-2850 


STRUCTURAL SYSTEMS 
TECHNOLOGY. INC. 
1. Cabot бошду, РЕ. 
PRESIDENT 
TOWERS. ANTENNAS. STRUCTURES 
New Tall Towers. Existing Towers 
Studies. Analysis, Design Modificanons. 
Inspections. Erection. Etc. 
6867 Elm Si. McLean. VA 22101 (204) 456-9765 


CLARENCE М BEVERAGE 
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGIES. INC. 
BROADCAST ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS. 

РО BOX 1130 
MARLTON. N J 08083 
4809; 905 0077 


WILLOUGHBY & VOSS 


BROADCAST TECHNICAL CONSULTANTS 
SUITE 100-4 
15102 JONES - MALTSBERGER 
SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS 78232 
(512) 525-1111 ОА 400-2778 
APPLICATIONS * FIELD SERVICES. 
Mme МАВ 


DON'T BE A STRANGER 
To Broadcasting’s 116,427 Readers. 
Display your Professional or Service Сага 
here. it will be seen by station and cable TV 
system owners and decision makers. 
* 1806 Readership Survey showing 3.5 
readers per copy. 


LOHNES & CULVER 


Consulting Radio- TV Engineers 
1166 15th. St., NW. , Suite 606 
Washington , D.C. 20005 
1202) 296-2722 


Mimbo АРССЕ 


ANDRUS AND ASSOCIATES, INC. 
ALVIN H. ANDRUS, Р.Е. 


351 SCOTT DRIVE 
SILVER SPRING, МО. 20804 


At 301 384-5374 
Member AFCCE 


CARL E. SMITH 
CONSULTING ENGINEERS 


AM-FM-TV Engineering Consultants 
Complete Tower and Rigging Sernces 


Box 2727 Bath, Ohio 44210 
(216) 659-4440 


Mullaney Engineering, Inc. 
Consuting Telécemmuticatiens Engineers 
9049 Shady Grove Court 
Gaithersburg, MD 20877 
301-921-0115 
Member AFCCE 


C. P. CROSSNO & ASSOCIATES 
Consulting Engineers 
Р.О. Box 18312 
Dallas, Texas 75218 
(214) 669-0294 
Member AFCCE 


LAWRENCE L. MORTON 
2*6) SUPERIOR LANE 
ниен Û LAKE FOREST CALIFOONA 92630 
LAWRENCE L. MORTON, P.E. 
AM * Fi e TV 


APPUCATIONS + FIELD ENGINEERING 


(714) 859-6015 
MEMBER АРССЕ 


D.B. COMMUNICATIONS, INC. 


BroadcasuRCC/cellular/satellie 
Telecommunications Consultants 


4401 East West Highwa ay Surte 308 
Bethesda, Maryland 20814 
(Located in Washington, D.C Area} 
(301) 654-0777 
contact Darrell Е Bauguess 


COHEN, DIPPELL 
and EVERIST, Р.С. 


CONSULTA малина 

1015 15th. Street N.W. Suite 703 
Washington, D.C. 20005 
(202) 783-0111 


Member AFCCE 


HAMMETT & EDISON, INC. 
CONSULTING ENGINEERS 


Box 
San Francisco, California 94128 


(415) 342-5200 
(202) 396-5200 


Member АРССЕ 


VIR JAMES 


CONSULTING ENGINEERS 
Applications and Field Engineenng 
Computenzed Frequency Surveys 


3137 W. Kentucky Ауе. 80210 
(303) 937.1900 


DENVER, COLORADO 
Member AFCCE & NAB 


HATFIELD & DAWSON 


Consulting Engineers 
Broadcast and Communications 
4226 6th Ave. ММ, 
Seattle, Washington, 98107 


(206) 783-9151 
Member AFCCE 


JOHN F.X. BROWNE 
& ASSOCIATES, P.C. 
525 Woodward Аме. 
Bloomfield Hills, MI 48013 
(313) 642-6226 
Washington Office 
(202) 293-2020 
Member AFCCE 


SELLMEYER 
Consulting Engineers 


РО. Box 356 
McKinney, Texas 75069 
(214) 542-2056 
Member AFCCE 


OWL ENGINEERING, INC. 
V Conor нити bogies 


GARRETT G. LYSIAK, РЕ. 
1906 W. County Road F, Se. Paul, MN 55112 
(612) 631-1338 


AFCCE 
Association of 
Federal Communications 
Consulting Engineers 
Р.О. Box 19333 
20th Street Station 


Washington. DC 20036 
12021659-3101 


all Texas. He also owns K78AZ, K80BD, K83AQ, all 
Matador, Tex., and K60BW Turkey/Quitaque, Tex. He is 
also licensee of MDS station WDU352 Roswell, NM. Filed 
Dec. 23, 1988. 


B Las Vegas, NV (BPCT881202KK}—Loraine Walker 
Arms seeks ch. 15; 3300 kw; 386 т. Address: 1064 Е. 
Sahara Ave., Las Vegas, NV 89104. Principal has no other 
broadcast interests. Filed Dec. 15, 1988. 


Actions 


п Mount Veron, MO (BPH86! I126ME)— Granted app. of 
Missouri FM for 106.7 mhz; 3 kw H&V; 328 m. Address: 
P.O. Box 214044, Sacramento, CA 95821. Principal is 
owned by Linda Adams and has no other broadcast inter- 
ests. Action Dec. 22, 1988. 


в Delphi, IN (BPH860702MG)}—Granted app. of Whitcar 
Regional Broadcasting Co. for 102.9 mhz; 1.2 kw; 157 m. 
Address: 709 N. Main St., Monticello, IN 47960. Principal 
is owned by William M. Deibel, Gerrie M. and Alexis L. 
Baer. Action Dec. 22, 1988. 


а Malone. NY (BPED880120MD}—Granted app. of The 
St. Lawrence University for 90.9 mhz; 0.2 kw H&V; 108 
m. Address: Romoda Drive, Canton, NY 13617. Principal 
15 headed by John W. Hannon Jr. 1t has no other broadcast 
interests. Action Dec. 27. 1988. 


и Polo, IL (BPH880301 MO)—Granted app. of Bob Thom- 
as Burns for 107.7 mhz; 1.24 kw: H&V; 155 m. Address: 
602 Woodland Court, Mt. Zion, IL 62549. Principal has no 
other broadcast interests. Action Dec. 28, 1988. 


Actions 


m TV Cable of Carlisle, PA. Denied request by Raystay 
Company for review of staff order to forfeit $2,000 for 
repeated violation of signal leakage standard contained in 
rules. Raystay operates cable company service Carlisle, 
PA, and vicinity. (By МО&О [ЕСС 88-367] adopted Nov. 
8 by Commission). 


в Troy, OH and Union City, IN. On remand, granted 
application of Union City Radio for new AM station on 
1030 khz at Union City, thus reversing FCC's previous 
grant of Land O'Lakes Broadcasting Corp.'s application to 
modify CP for WTRJ-AM to specify 1030 khz at Troy. 
(MM dockets 84-481 and 489 by MO&O [ЕСС 88-417] 
adopted Dec. 19 by Commission). 

в Katy, TX. Approved settlement agreement and granted 
application of Johnson Broadcasting Inc. for new FM sta- 
tion at Katy; dismissed competing application of Victory 
Media Inc. (MM dockets 84- 1033-4, by order [FCC 88R- 
69] adopted Dec. 22 by Review Board). 


в Reporting Requirements. Reaffirmed establishment of re- 
porting requirements for provision of domestic, interstate, 
long-distance services by carriers owned by foreign tele- 
communications entities. (CC docket 86-494, by order 
[FCC 88-405] adopted Dec. 12 by Commission.} 


m WRLS-FM Hayward, WI. Liable for $7,500 Forfeiture 
for Broadcasting Lottery Information (Report ММ-366. 
Mass Media Action). Upheld staff ruling that Pine-Aire 
Broadcasting Corp. Inc., licensee of WRLS-FM. Hayward, 
was liable for forfeiture of $7.500 for broadcasting lottery 
information. Action by Commission Dec. 19 by MO&O 
(FCC 88-413). 


B Merced, CA. Resolved air hazard issue in applicant's 
favor and granted application of Wade Axel] for new TV 
station on channel 5] at Merced. (MM docket 88-162, by 
Summary Decision [FCC 88D-44] issued Dec. 21 by ALT 
Joseph Stirmer). 


п Lajas, PR. Granted application of Ramon Rodriguez and 
Associates for new FM station at Lajas; denied competing 
application of David Ortiz Radio Corp. (MM docket 86- 
510. by ID [ЕСС 88D-45] issued Dec. 21 by ALJ John M. 
Frysiak). 


п АТУ. Extended to January 23. 1989. date for filing reply 
comments on further notice in matter of advanced televi- 
Sion systems and their impact on existing TV broadcast 
service, etc. (MM docket 87-268, by Further order [DA 89- 
1] adopted Jan. 3 by Chief, Mass Media Bureau). 


By Review Board on Dates Shown: 


в Charlottesville, VA (Achernal Broadcasting Co., et al.) 
TV proceeding. Scheduled oral argument for Jan. 6 at 
10:00 a.m., Room 235, 2000 L St.. NW, on exceptions to 
Initial Decision of ALJ Joseph Chachkin (FCC 88D-27, 
released August 26, 1988) granting application of Lindsay 
Television Inc. for new UHF television station on channel 
64 at Charlottesville; denying competing applications of 
Evangel Communications Inc., and Achernar Broadcasting 
Company. (Evangel Communications did not file excep- 


tions in this proceeding.) Each party has 20 minutes for oral 
argument. Achernal Broadcasting may reserve part of its 
time for rebuttal. (By Letter, Dec. 8) (MM docket 86-440.) 


Allocations 


m Meeker, CO. At request of James Н. Hicks, proposed 
allotting channel 233A (94.5 mhz) to Meeker, as its first 
local FM broadcast service. Comments due Feb. 21, replies 
March 8. (ММ доске 88-583 by NPRM [DA 88-1942] 
adopted Nov. 30 by deputy chief, Policy and Rules Divi- 
sion, Mass Media Bureau). 


m Morehead, КУ. At request of Brad-Lee-Todd Corpora- 
tion, proposed allotting channel 242A (96.3 mhz) to More- 
head, as its second local FM service. Comments due Feb. 
21, replies March 8. (ММ docket 88-582 by NPRM [DA 
88-1943] adopted Nov. 30 by deputy chief, Policy and 
Rules Division). 


п Ephrata, WA. Effective Feb. 13, amended FM table by 
Substituting channel 222C2 (92.3 mhz) for channel 240A 
(95.9 mhz) at Ephrata, and modified license of KGDN(FM) 
to specify operation on channel 222C2. In addition, allotted 
second local FM service to Ephrata, channel 230C2 (93.9 
mhz). Filing window for channel 230C2 opens Feb. 14, 
closes March 16. (MM docket 87-326 by R&O [DA 88- 
1948] adopted Nov. 30 by deputy chief, Policy and Rules 
Division). 

п Burns, WY. Effective Feb. 13, amended FM table by 
allotting channel 270C2 (101.9 mhz) to Burns. as its first 
local FM service. Filing window opens Feb. 14, closes 
March 16. (MM docket 88-169 by R&O [DA 88-1950] 
adopted Nov. 30 by deputy chief, Policy and Rules Divi- 
sion). 


B Pine Bluffs, WY. Effective Feb. 3, amended FM table by 
allotting channel 287C2 (105.3 mhz) to Pine Bluffs, as its 
first local FM service. Filing window opens Feb. 14. closes 
March 16. (MM docket 88-168 by R&O [DA 88-1949] 
adopted Nov. 30 by deputy chief, Policy and Rules Divi- 
Sion). 


B Evans, Martinez and Warrenton, GA. Effective Feb. 21, 
amended FM table by allotting channel 226A (93.1 mhz) to 
Warrenton, as its first local FM service. filing window 
opens Feb. 22, closes March 24. (MM docket 88-51 by 
First R&O [DA 88-1972] adopted Nov. 18 by deputy chief, 
Policy and Rules Division. Mass Media Bureau). 


№ Taos, NM. At request of Taos Communications Corp.. 
proposed substituting channel 268C2 (101.5 mhz) for chan- 
nel 269A (101.7 mhz) at Taos and modifying license of 
KTAO to specify operation on higher powered channel. 
Comments due Feb. 27. replies March 14. (MM docket 88- 
589 by NPRM [DA 88- 1975] adopted Nov. 30 by deputy 
Chief. Policy and Rules Division). 


Call Letters 
Applications 
Call Sought by 
New AM 
KXER William L. Zawila, Templeton, CA 
New FM's 
WSGC Battlefield Sroadcasting. Ringgold, 


GA 


WLFX Premier Broadcast Group of Lexington 
Inc.. Winchester, KY 

Existing 

AM 

WWLB WLCF Starship Communications Inc., 
Eustis, FL 

Existing 

FM’s 

WIOI-FM WGIG-FM Nelson Broadcasting Corp.. 
Brunswick, СА 

KLLS KDGB Lesso Inc., Dodge City, KS 

WKOJ WKGL-FM Bell Radio Inc., Middle- 
town, NY 

KMGW KRGQ Clear Channel Radio Inc., Cas- 
per, WY 

Grants 

New FM's 

WZZT Morrison Broadcast Associates. Morri- 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
122 


WNJY 


WLWJ 
KURQ 


KHWY 
WZAD 
KIRQ-FM 


KWOW 
New TV's 


WAJM-TV 
WWRS 


Existing 
AM's 
KPBA 
WJYZ 
WJYL 
WHBT 
WWCC 
WYOM 


KWGH 


KBNP 
WLFN 


Existing 
FM's 
KQYT 
KWNQ 
WXLQ 
WSSU 


KKMA 
WLSY 


WSMU-FM 
WBSL-FM 
WSCN 
WWZO 
KQDI-FM 
МРЫ 
КМОХ-ЕМ 
WBPR 
KWGH-FM 
KJMZ 
KMEZ-FM 
KAML-FM 


KIMX 


Existing 
TV's 
KGSW-TV 


МРСО-ТУ 


son, IL 
Whitecar Regional Broadcasting Co. 
inc.. Delphi, IN 


Larry Langford Jr., Portage, MI 
Roswell FM Joint Venture, Roswell, 
NM 

Don Я. Davis, Santa Rosa, NM 
Jerome Gillman Inc., Wurtsboro, NY 
Gee Jay Broadcasting Inc., Tri-City. 
OR 

Lawrence L. Bush, Jr., Clifton, TX 


Palatka Television, Inc., Palatka, FL 
Pacer Television Co., Mayville, WI 


KZLR Metropolitan Media Group Inc., 
Pine Bluff, AR 

WJIZ Silver Star Communications - 
WJAZ, Inc.. Albany, GA 

WDDE Louisville Radio Limited Part- 
nership, Newburg, KY 

WJCO Unity Broadcasting Service, 
Inc., Jackson, М! 

WDNH WDNH Broadcasting Согр., 
Honesdale, PA 

WPLJ Beatrice Broadcasting Corp.. 
Wilkes-Barre, PA 

KVOL WHO Broadcasting Co. Inc., 
Big Lake, TX 

KKUL KKUL Radio, Inc., Believue, WA 
WLXR Vaughn Broadcasting Group. 
La Crosse, WI 


KFXX Southwestern Wireless Inc., 
Green Valley, AZ 

KHOZ-FM Harrison Broadcasting 
Corp.. Harrison, AR 

WBLU Hinesville Broadcasting Corp., 
Hinesville, СА 

WSSR Sangamon State University, 
Springfield, IL 

KZZL КІЕМ Inc., Le Mars, ІА 

WJYL Louisville Radio Limited Partner- 
Ship, Jefferson, KY 

WUSM Southeastern Massachusetts 
University, North Darmouth, MA 
WBSL The Berkshire School, Inc.. 
Sheffield, MA 

WNSD Minnesota Public Radio, Clo- 
quet, MN 

WTMX Charisma Communications 
Co., New Albany, MS 

KOOZ-FM Lockhart Broadcasting, 
Inc., Great Райз, MT 

WWPR WWPR-FM Radio, Inc., New 
York, NY 

KRRK Radio Grand Forks Associates 
Ltd., Grand Forks, ND 

WGMB Coastline Communications of 
Carolina Inc., Georgetown, SC 
KVOL-FM WHO Broadcasting Co.Inc., 
Big Lake, TX 

KTCE Summit-Dallas Broadcasting 
Corp., Dallas, TX 

KDLZ Gilmore Broadcasting Corpora- 
tion, Fort Worth, TX 

KOLL-FM Gillette Broadcasting Co.. 
Gillette, WY 

KLWG Laramie Women's Hispanic 
Network, Laramie, WY 


KGSW Mountain States Broadcasting, 
Albuquerque, NM 

М/РСО Journal Broadcasting of Char- 
lotte Inc., Charlotte, NC 


Classified Advertising 


See last page of Classified Section tor rates. 
Closing dates. box numbers and Other details. 


RADIO 


HELP WANTED MANAGEMENT 


Sales Manager: Northern Alabama stations want aggres- 
Sive, experienced, radio sales executive. Sell, train, and 
reap good benefits for one of the market's top combos. 
Send resume and track record to Box A-12. EOE. 


General manager: New FM in small mid Michigan market. 
А great opportunity to develop. from ground up, a new 
property м a market that desires 15 own station. The 
successful applicant will have a Strong sales background 
with a proven record and small market experience; he or 
she will receive good compensation, and work with a 
financially strong and capable owner. AVCI. Вох 650, 
Pigson, MI 48755. EOE. 


General manager: KWMU-FM, St. Louis. MO: Seeking 
general manager for National Public Radio member sta- 
tion providing news, classical. and jazz programing from 
campus of the University of Missouri-St. Louis to metropol- 
кап area of 2.5 million, to provide leadership for a full-time 
professional staff of 20 and 20 qualified students. Respon- 
sibilities include budget and financial management. tun- 
draising and developmemt, primary liaison to campus and 
community. Reports to Dean of College of Arts and Sci- 
ences. Qualifications: Bachelor's degree required Mas- 
lers degree preferred. Proven senior management and 
development experience. Ability to work with students, 
friends board, and community advisory board. Salary: 
Negotiable and competitive. Deadline. February 15, 1989. 
Send cover letter, resume and three letters of references 
to Prof. Lance Т. LeLoup. Chair, Search Committee, c/o 
Human Resources, University of Missouri-St. Louis, 8001 
Natural Bridge Ad.. St. Louis, MO 63121. Equal opportuni- 
ly employer. 


Sunshine Group Broadcasting, one of the fastest grow- 
ing broadcast groups in New England. requires a general 
sales manager for WFEA/WZID in Manchester. New 
Hampshire to bring its well-seasoned and professional 
combo sales staff to new heights. An excellent compensa- 
lion package is offered for your achievements Send your 
resume and tell me why you should be considered to 
General Manager. Box А-19. EOE, МЕ 


Operations manager: Responsibilities: Assist the pro- 
gram director and chief engineer in quality control of thc 
air signal for programing and technical quality: supervise 
the production/programing staff: training of production- 
fprograming staff. technical director of station remotes- 
field recordings: liason with NPR distribution, satellite op- 
erations and technical staff: purchase production 
supplies; mix and produce programing as needed. Quali- 
fications: College degree. Substantial radio experience 
with familiarity of radio operations Technical background 
and production skills necessary. Position availability: Im- 
mediately. Salary: Commensurate with experience. Send 
resume to: Program Director. WBGO/Newark Public Ra- 
dio. InC.. 54 Park Place. Newark NJ 07102. EOE, 


GM/GSM needed soon for terrific small market combo in 
М. It. Need ability to organize. train and motivate sales and 
programing staffs to higher levels New, rapidly growing 
company with great opportunity Letter with career/salary 
history to Box А-28. E.O.E. 


Sales manager. #1 CHR seeks leader/trainer for seven 
person staff. Strong sales background a must. Would like 
to talk at RAB in Dallas Send resume to Bart Brandmiller, 
МКО, 60 Monroe Center, Grand Rapids. MI 49503. EOE 


General manager wanted for power AM/FM combo in 
competitiva Midwestern market Must have proven track 
record wilh strength in sales. programing and expense 
control. Please submit complete resume with current ref- 
erences to Box A-36. EOE. 


Station manager for GREAT small/medium market 
AM/FM combo in Saratoga Springs (near Albany). NY. 
Duties include full station management and sales Must 
have strong sales background and ability to budget and 
meet monthly station goals. The right person will be re- 
warded based on station performance. Those with the 
right stuff and interested in earning an equity position 
submit letter, resume and references to Howard M. Gins- 
berg. WKAJ/WQQY, 12 Beech St. Essex Junction. VT 
05452, EOE. 


Sales manager: 100.000 watt FM hil music station, top 


rated station in second largest market in Arkansas. If you 
can recruit, train. organize. motivate and produce results. 
an excellent opportunity awaits you. CRMC a plus Re- 
spond quickly to Gary Keifer. 501—785-2526 or 452- 
1992, KISA, Box 3100, Fort Smith, AR 72901 EOE 


Sales manager with opportunity to move up to G.M; 
Group broadcaster, expansion minded. Upper Midwest in 
100.000 pop. farnily community near major. Our AM/FM 
Stations are top two local stations in market. Competition 
minimum. We need experienced sales executive to moti- 
vale and organize staff of six A.E.'s. Should be heavy on 
training. organization, pay planning, station revenue 
goals. sales presentations. We need a top person and are 
willing to let him/her run the show. Box А-46. EOE. 


Local safes manager: Тор 10 market. Locking for idivi- 
dual with strong local sales management history to laad a 
staff of 8-10. Experience in sales training and maximizin 
revenue a must. Resume to Fran Epstein, KRBE/KKZI 
Radio, 9801 Westheimer. Houston. TX 77042. No phone 
calls please. EOE. 


HELP WANTED SALES 


Equity position: For experienced New England salesper- 
Son. Proven track record а must. New FM station in major 
growth market with magnificent lifestyie Help us make ир 
your account list. EOE. Box A-23. 


Sales pros who are motivated and achievers for small 
market in N. Il. AM/FM with fantastic history. Letter with 
career/salary history to Вох А-29. E.O.E. 


Colonial Broadcasting Co., owners of WLWI AM/FM 
Montgomery, AL. WOWW-FM Pensacola, FL, and WUSY- 
FM Chattanooga. TN, is accepting applications tor sales 
representatives All stations are market leaders and com- 
pany benefits are extremely good. Please send detailad 
resume, references and mark preference. if any, © РО. 
Box 4999, Montgomery. AL 36195, Altn: David Coppock 
Colonial Broadcasting is an equal opportunity employer. 


Top tist available for experienced account executive in 
Philadelphia. 4th biggest market. Need a star that can sell 
agencies and sell directs. Send resume to: Box P-45. 
EOE. 


Top-rated Colorado FM. Live, work and play at the foot of 
the Rocky Mountains. Career opportunity for experienced. 
hard-working. goal-oriented radio sales executive No 
flakes! Send resume with track-record and references to 
RB. Box 320. Colorado Springs. CO 80901. EOE. 


Co-op speclalisUservice director. Take charge of estab- 
lished co-op department with national reputation. Must be 
detail-driven, organized. self-starter. Retail/sales back- 
ground with computer skills preferred. Send resume to J 
McCullough. WLPO/WAJK. Box 215. LaSalle, IL 61301. 
EOE. 


WNTX - Oldies 96/Cape Cod, Massachusetts, is seeking 
зе! motivated account executives. If qualified. earn big 
$$$. Call Larry Dehaan. General Manager. 508—420- 
0800. EOE. 


Experlenced, entrepreneurial sales manager for spar- 
kling new FM and aging AM in Upstate NY small, medium 
market. Superior family environment. New blood - new 
ideas needed. Paid on performance including potential 
equity position. Contract available if you have credentials. 
references and track record. EOE. Box A-50. 


Ski at the ski capitol of the East - Killington & live a great 
е in Vermont. Sales position available at the #1 Birch & 
#1 ARB stations Salary plus commission plus benefits. 
Contact D. Vaughan - WSYB & WRUT. PO Box 249. 
Rutland, VT 05701. EOE. 


Sales pro: Wanted for Tallahassee. FL top-rated. 100.000 
walt radio station Experience and proven track record а 
must! Established accounts ready for you to expand Sol- 
id. rapidly growing market. A great opportunity. Send 
resumes to E. Bailey. P.O Box 12758, Tallahassee. FL 
32317 Equal Opportunity Employer 


HELP WANTED ANNOUNCERS 


KLMS, Lincoln's original Oldies station is searching far 
atalented morning show host You must be topical, enter- 
taining. and a team player Your duties would include 
being a programing/promotion assistant, and you will earn 
18K per year. You must be familiar with 50s, 60s, and 70s 
music Please send cassette and resume го’ Brent Al- 
berts, Operations Manager. KLMS Radio. 1540 S 70th St.. 
#200. Lincoln, NE 68506. EOE. 


Pacific NW Group seeks creative morning and other on- 
аг personalities. Tapes to" Tom McCoy. 303 Gage. Suite 
319, Richland, WA 99352. EOE. 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
123 


HELP WANTED TECHNICAL 


NY's Hudson Valley: AM/FM needs a CE to maintain a 
first class facility. Experience in ОА a must. SBE certifica- 
tion helpful. Competitive salary and benefits. Contact Wal- 
ter Maxwell, WGHQ/wbpm. 82 John SL. Kingston, NY 
12401. EOE. 


Beasley Broadcast Group, one of the fastest growing 
radio groups in America, is Currently accepting resumes 
for current and future engineering positions. We are look- 
ing for people experienced in high power FM, AM direc- 
tional, and studio systems. If you are mainfenance mind- 
ed. have the ability to design and construct state of the art 
facilities, and possess good communication skills, send 
your resume in confidence to: Kevin McNamara, Director 
of Engineering, Beasley Broadcast Group. Box 2097, Na- 
ples, FL 33940. EOE МЕ. 


Chief engineer for Shamrock Communications, Orlando 
FM. Applicant should have strong management skills and 
SBE certification. Send resume to Mark Timpany. WOFM, 
606 West Wisconsin Ave., Milwaukee. Wl, 53203. EOE. 


HELP WANTED NEWS 


Graduate assistants (4), Miami University, 1989-90, 
WMUB-FM. Full time 30 KW NPR affiliate, Big Band-jazz- 
news format. Need: 2 news reporters^wrilers, 1 develop- 


probable. Qualified only. No phone calls. Immediale ap- 
plication necessary. deadline’ March 1, 11989. Contact 
GA Search Committe, WMUB. Miami University. Oxford, 
Ohio 45056. AA/EOE. 


Morning anchor/editor. Experienced. active. local news- 


Experienced news anchor with strong delivery wanted 
for top news station in New York's Hudson Valley. Excel- 
lent pay and benefits. Mail tape, resume and salary re- 
quirements to Hank Silverberg, News Director, 
WGHO/Wbpm, PO Box 1880. Kingston. МУ 12401. EOE. 


Entry-level radio newsperson for medium market news 
leader. Smaller market experience or educational back- 
ground in journalism essential. Minority applicants are 
urged to apply. Send tape and resume to Jeff Thompson. 
WFNC, P.O. Box 35297. Fayetteville. NC 28303. EOE. 


HELP WANTED PROGRAMING 
PRODUCTION & OTHERS 


Crown Broadcasting, a young. dynamic radio group with 
stations in California and Colorado is expanding. Want to 
interview experienced people for programing, sales. ad- 
ministrative and management positions. We offer great 
benefits and opportunity for advancement. Needed imme- 
diately, an experienced sales manager tor medium market 
AM/FM Send to Crown Broadcasting. 5721 Magazine 
Street, Suite 143, New Orleans, LA 70115. EOE. 


Program director for Top 50 Newstalk station in the 
Southeast. Must have experience and be able to host а 
talk segment. News background desired. Send resume. 
EOE. Box A-22. 


Pacific NW group seeks experienced PD. Tapes and 
resume to: Tom McCoy. 303 Gage. Suite 319. Richland, 
WA 99352. EOE. 


SITUATIONS WANTED MANAGEMENT 


Currently employed manager searching for a new chal- 
lenge. Experience includes all facets o! management from 
sales, promotion. community involvement, programing, 
personnel, to engineering and new station construction 
Over twelve years with present employer, twenty years in 
broadcast. overall. Prefer small to medium size market in 
Minnesota, Wisconsin or Michigan. Reply to Box Р-74. 


Very successful general manager seeking new opportu- 
nities. Presently emptoyed high rated Class C FM in large 
Southern market. Good sales trainer/motivator. Bottom line 
onented, etc. CRMC. Interested? Reply Box A-30. 


General manager/street selling sales manager. 20 years 
experience, Available immediately. Box 446, Seymour, TX 
76380. 


General manager - An unusual situation, you've probably 
read about it, makes me available now! History of sales. 
profit, turnaround. programing successes. Seeks long 


{егт association. All márket sizes considered. Box A-42. 


Broadcast executive seeking a return to RADIO. Over 35 
years experience including ownership. management, 
sales management, promotion, etc. Seeking work in a 
Western city. Size is not important, opportunity is. Current- 
у self-employed in allied business. Howard Fisher, 5555 

anyon Crest, #4C, Riverside, СА 92507. 714—781-0201 
or 781-9858. 


General manager/radio. Tumaround specialist, middie 
size market. Strong research, rep, organizational, systems 
specialist. Young talented, professional and polished, 
Southeast or Northeast preferred. Box A-47. 


I'm looking for the best! Highly effective and motivated 
team leader, seeks top quality group or single station in 
top 75 market. Very experienced broadcasting back- 
шеша Only stable. long term relationships considered. 

ational media verification and solid references furnished. 
Box A-44. 


SITUATIONS WANTED SALES 


Not getting enough direct business? VP/GM with fully 
documented direct sales record wants to relocate to Flori- 
da and sell. Serious inquiries only! 512 ——490-4771. 


SITUATIONS WANTED ANNOUNCERS 


Professional attitude and sound. Experienced announc- 
er available; mmediately. Midwest, South. anytime. Bill 
308—534-1211. 


Tools... Talent...Desire: Dynamic announcer/production 
animal. Experienced morning host & news man. Seeking 
Northeast gig with room to grow. Chris Dowd, 305—296- 
3574. 


Versatile Country announcer with 4 years experience in 
news & production. Start immedialely. Dave - 303—278- 
0106. 


Multi-talented V/O announcer/on camera talent with 100 
plus straight. character. Celebrity & cartoon voices and 
faces with excellent references, wishes to move on to 
bigger opportunity. Creative writing abilities and strong 
sales background. Mel Blanc called my voices "GHEATI". 
| require significant opportunity. Send for T & R. Box A-41. 


Experienced, professional announcer. Greal pipes, 
even better attitude. Ready to become a member of your 
team. Call Michael, (Н) 301—932-8435, (W) 301—870- 
5550. 


Announcer - warm, capable, dependable. 30 years expe- 
rience. Any market considered. Oldies format preferred. 
Ed Museare, Box 1162, Orlando, FL 32802. 


Attention: General managers and program directors in 
top 40 markets and Florida. Top-rated Sportstalk host with 
number one nighttime program in major market ADI seeks 
new challenges to boost ratings. Box A-37. 


Young, natural sportscaster with experience looking for 
big break. Strength in play-by-play. Call Steve - 309—353- 
4565. 


SITUATIONS WANTED NEWS 


Major market sports talent available. Done it all - PBP, 
Talk, reporting, even news and general talk - Юга decade. 
РВР is awesome. Box А-4. 


Wantad: Work for a bright, energetic reporter. Prefer Up- 
per Midwest (Wisconsin, Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota.) 
Tape. resume available. George Cloyd, 608—249-9037 
after 5:30 PM CT. 


Aggressive, award-winning radio anchor/reporter, with 
production, live remote and talk show experience, seeks 
advancement at your medium market station. Hard work- 
ing. thorough and diligent with degree. Richard Gieser, 
312— 668-5263. 


MISCELLANEOUS 


Troubled AM? Need programing to generate sales? 
Need sales to make bucks? Call Ray Mineo 800—321- 
2349. 


Look out, Jack and Vanna. Here's radio's letter guessing 
game. Word For Word, 4743 South 575 West, Riverdale, 
UT 84405. 


CONSULTANTS 


AM in the red? Get into the black. Tred and true meth- 
ods. Knock on doors - make salés. Call Karen Trénchard. 
303—781-6618. 


із your АМ down and out? Маке $ with great program- 
ing and good street wise sales programs. Call Crawford 
Clark 816—741-3622. 


Affordable consulting & Arbitron reviews - New format 
ideas! Contact: Consultant, Box 2741, Laurel, MD 20708. 


TELEVISION 


HELP WANTED MANAGEMENT 


General sales manager: Midwest 50's markel, seeks ex- 
perienced GSM. Total sales manager experience 2+ 
years. Skilled in budgeting, pricing, negotiations. comput- 
ers, interpersonal communications, leadership and detail 
organization. Rep firm and local sales experience a must. 
Submit resume and salary history to Attn: Robert А. Ep- 
stein, VP/GM, WEYI-TV (CBS), 2225 W. Willard Ad., Clio, 
MI 48420. EOE. 


General manager wanted for major market Northeast te- 
leproduction operation. Facility is largest in region with 
production, post, audio, computer graphics and anima- 
tion. Seeking individual to provide business and creative 
management. Job requires minimum of five years produc- 
lion company experience, three years managernent. Ex- 
cellent growth potential and benefits. EOE, МЕ. Send 
salary requirements and resume to Box A-18. 


General sales manager - Strong CBS affiliate in the Sun- 
belt needs an aggressive and organized individual to 
head up ils sales department. Prior experience in sales 
management and national sales is required. Prior appli- 
cants need not apply. Please send resume to Stan Marin- 
off. Vice President & General Manager, WROW-TV, Draw- 
ег 1212, Augusta, СА 30913-1212. EOE. 


Marketing and promotion manager. A California Indie in 
the top 25 markets is seeking а marketing/promotion man- 
ager. Applicant must have marketing skills to promote TV 
in print, radio and on-air. Sales promotion experience and 
good people skills are a plus. Prior management experi- 
ence is preferred, though not required. Send resume and 
cover letter to Box А-40. EOE, MF. 


Promotion manager. Market-leacing, Southeastern CBS 
affiliate (100--) seeks experienced. hard-working, take- 
charge, conceptually-creative self-starter. Proven ability to 
write, shoot and post-produce required. EOE. Box A-49. 


What's the best job in television? If your answer is "pro- 
motion” and you're 4 Creative, supercharged. hands-on 
manager ог senior producer with at least five years experi- 
ence, great people skills and the ability to juggle various 
responsibilities, send us your resume/tape. We're #1 in а 
very competitive, top 25 market, a Post-Newsweek Station 
and an equal opportunity employer. Please, no phone 
Calls. Respond to: Judi Addabbo, Personnel Manager, 
WFSB-TV, 3 Constitution Plaza, Hartford. CT 06115. 


HELP WANTED SALES 


General sales manager to organize and lead sales effort 
of major Northeast teleproduction company. Position re- 
quires minimum of three years experience in both selling 
and management with a teleproduction facility. Excellent 
benefits. EOE, M/F. Send resume and salary requirements 
to Box A-17. 


WLIG-TV-55, Long Island, New York's only commercial 
television station seeks experienced local sales rep with 
successful broadcast background. Outstanding growth 
Opportunity and full benefits. Resume to Kevin Dunn, 
WLIG-TV, 300 Crossways Park Dr.. Woodbury, NY 11797. 
EOE. 


Texas Sunbelt network affiliate is seeking an experienced 
account executive with proven track record to assume list 
and add to it. Send resume and references. All inquiries 
will be answered. EEO, M/F. Box A-38. 


National sales manager--Sclid broadcast sales record 
essential. Prior national sales experience preferred. Com- 
puter literacy on IBM/MacIntosh helpful. Based in Water- 
loo, with some travel outside the market. Salary plus in- 
centives. Contact: Mike Weeks, GSM, KWWL-TV, 500 East 
Fourth, Waterloo, ІА 50703. 319—291-1200. EOE. 


HELP WANTED TECHNICAL 


Chief engineer: Hands-on chief for cable satellite net- 
work Must be familiar with Varian transmitters. Sony Beta- 
cam, 1” and 3/4” machines. Previous supervisory experi- 
ence and good people and communication skills 
required. Must have 2nd Class or General Class FCC 
license. SBE certification a plus. Resumes and salary 
history should be sent to; Personnel Dept., NuStar, 1332 
Enterprise Dr., West Chester, PA 19380. No phone calls, 
please. EOE. 


Orralr operator for master control at new satellite cable 
network. Applicant should have some master control ex- 
perience and be familiar with 1" and 3/4" Sony machines. 
Familiarity with IBM compatibles and MS-DOS operating 
systems a plus. Send resume to: Personnel Dept.. NuStar, 
1332 Enterprise Dr., West Chester, РА 19380. EOE. 


Malntenance technician - California network affiliate. 
Knowledge of Sony 3/4" and 1” VTR's, TCR-100's, Ampex 
ADO and Grass Valley switchers essential. UHF transmit- 
ler experience a plus. Send resume to Robert Banks, 
Chief Engineer, KBAK-TV, Р.О. Box 2929, Bakersfield, CA 
93303. EOE. 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
124 


Rigger wanted to work on TV, AM-FM tower and antenna 
systems. If you have the experience and сап manage your 
own Crew, we Should talk. Major dollars! Call Jim Tiner. 
214—891-0555. EOE. 


Chyron graphic artist needed to operate state-of-the-art 
graphic system. Must have 2-3 years keyboard and palate 
experience with Chyron 4200. Will be working with Chyron 
Super Scribe, and 4. Send resumes and demo tape to: 
Morris Cerullo World Evangelism, Attn: Ossie Mills, P.O. 
Box 700, San Diego, СА 92138. EOE. 


WCSH-TV has ап Immediate opening for an engineenng 
supervisor. The position is responsible for the mainte- 
nance, supervision and marketing of a remote production 
vehicle. Maintenance of studio and RF equipment will also 
be required. The successfu! applicant should possess an 
Associates degree in Electrical Engineering or equivalent 
education and/or experience. Experience їп remote pro- 
duction truck maintenance and operalions are also re- 
quired. Supervisory experience helpful. Qualified appl- 
cants should submit their resumes to Jim Boutin, Director 
of Engineering, WCSH-TV, One Congress Sq., Portland, 
ME 04101. This station is an equal opportunity employer. 


Post production maintenance person: F&F Productions, 
Inc. is looking for someone to fill an immediate opening in 
out post production department. If you are up to the 
challenge oí maintaining our two edit suites, studio, and 
animation equipment - we want you. We require 3-5 years 
digital and solid state background, with an emphasis on 
broadcast equipment maintenance and post production 
techniques. Please send resume and salary requirements 
to: Bill McKechney. Director of Engineering. F&F Produc- 
tions, Inc.. 10393 Gandy Вма., St. Petersburg, FL 33702. 
A division of Hubbard Broadcasting, Inc. EOE, M/F. 


Maintenance supervisor - 5 years experience compo- 
nent level, 2 years supervisory. trade school or college 
technical degree preferred. SBE, МААТЕ, or FCC General 
or First Class ісапѕе. Experience with Ampex, Harris, 
Grass Valley and Ikegami required. Apply to: Director of 
Finance, WYES-TV, P.O. Box 24026, New Orleans, LA 
70184-4026. No telephone calls! WYES is an equal oppor- 
tunity employer. 


Assistant director of engineering - 5-8 years in TV 
broadcast engineering, excellent interpersonal skills, thor- 
ough understanding of broadcast systems 4 must, 2-3 
years experience in management, familiarity with capital 
and operational budget process preferred. SBE, МААТЕ, 
or FCC General or First Class license required. College 
degree or technical school also preferred. Apply to: Direc- 
tor of Finance, WYES-TV, Р.О. Вох 24026, New Orleans, 
LA 70184-4026. No tetephone calis! WYES is an equal 
Opportunity employer. 


TV transmitter maintenance engineer: Fox Television, 
WFXT, Boston is seeking a qualified transmitter engineer 
with strong background in RF Previous experience with 
RCA-TTU110 UHF transmitter and studio equipment pre- 
ferred. FCC lic. or SBE certification required. Send resu- 
me/references to: Moses Primo, CE, WFXT-TV, 100 2nd 
Ave., Needham, МА 02194, Equal opportunity employer. 


Assistant chief engineer: Top 50 market VHF affiliate 
seeks a leader with minimum five years combined elec- 
tronics education and maintenance experience. FCC 
General or SBE Certification required. Strong interperson- 
al and administrative skills also needed. We offer medical 
coverage, profil sharing and other benefits. Resume and 
Salary requirements to: Chief Engineer, WOWK-TV, 555 
Fifth Ave., Huntington, WV 25706. EOE. 


Chief engineer. VHF network affiliate in the Sunbelt seeks 
a hands-on, progressive chief to step in for veteran chief 
engineer retiring after 33 years of service. Responsible for 
supervising maintenance staff, budget preparation and all 
daily engineering operations. Prospects should forward 
resume and salary requirements to: WNCT-TV, Attn: Gen- 
eral Manager, Р.О. Box 898, Greenville, NC 27835. EOE. 


HELP WANTED NEWS 


News producer Industry leader in top thirty market needs 
a take-charge hard news expert to produce fast-paced, 
well-written newscast. BA/BS and three years experience 
needed handling all the tools: live, uplink, graphics. Send 
tape and resume to Billye Gavitt. КМТУ, Р.О. Box 14159, 
Oklahoma City, OK 73113. EOE/MF. 


Reporter. We're in a top thirty market, and we have all the 
tools; live, helicopter, SNG, and a go-for-it attitude. If you 
are experienced, a strong writer, organized, aggressive, 
motivated, and streetwise. we'd like to hear from you. Box 
A-7. EOE/M-F. 


News producer: WSB-TV is looking for a producer with 
strong organizational and people skills, must possess 
Strong writing skilts and have experience with live, SNG 
and ENG. If you have at least two fuil years of producing 
experience send tape and resume to Mark Pimental, 
WSB-TV, 1601 W. Peachtree St.. NE, Atlanta, GA 30309. 


News producer. Top 50 network affiliate in the South 
looking for experienced news producer. Must have strong 
writing and people skills plus live experience. EOE. Send 
resume to Box A-27. 


Meteorologist wanted. AMS Seal preferred. Knowledge 
of Liveline, Astro Graphics and on-site radar helpful. Send 
tapes, resumes and salary requirements to Steve Hun- 
sicker, WCJB-TV, 6220 NW 43rd St. Gainesville. FL 
er Applications must be received by February 1st. 


Satellite truck operator: NBC affiliate has immediate 
Opening for a satellite truck operator. Applicants should 
have SNG experience and be able to work closely with 
news department. Send resume and references to News 
Diretor. WSAV-TV. Р.О. Box 2429, Savannah, GA 31402 


NIWS graphics artist: Graphics department locking for 
news illustrtor/Paintbox artist, Responsibilities include: 
Conceptualization and illustration of inputs, Paintbox oper- 
ation, execution of motion graphics, interface with art di- 
rector, news producers. Must mael deadlines, function 
well under pressure. Local station experience in news, 
electronic graphics required. College degree. art back- 

round preferred. Submit letter and resume to: Attn: Judy 

lomon, NIWS, 5432 W. 102nd St.. Los Angeles. СА 
90045. EOE. 


Consumer affairs/famlly life reporter. New position Will- 
ing workers only. Tape and resume to Al Aamodt, МО, 
WDAY Television, 301 S. 8th St., Fargo, ND 58103. EOE. 


Assistant news director sought for growing. dynamic 
news operation. Person should have management experi- 
ence. Responsibilities will include satellite operations. 
scheduling, assignments and others. Reply with resume 
and statements on news and management philosophies 
іо Bob Richardson, News Director, КОВ Television, 4 
Broadcast Plaza, SW. Albuquerque, NM 87104. 505— 
243-4411. EOE, M/F. 


Photojournalist: Top station in top thirties market is seek- 
ing an experienced ENG shooter/editor to join our award- 
winning staff. If you Can tell stories using pictures, if you 
strive for excellence, write Box A-20. EOE, MF. 


Videotape editor: KWTV is seeking an experienced 3/4” 
videotape editor. Requires 1 year TV news editing ехреп- 
ence, complete proficiency in telling stories on tape. 
speed, and accuracy. Successful candidate will also take 
microwave and ЗМС leeds and maintain videotape filing 
system. Contact Bilye Самій, KWTV, РО. Box 14159, 
Oklahoma City, OK 73113. EOE. MF. 


Unique career opportunity. Supervise student producers 
ol regular commercial, top-rated newscasts. while leach- 
ing journalism at the world's best. KOMU-TV/NBC. Mis- 
souri School of Journalism needs ехрепепсеа newscast 
producer, Faculty rank. Newscast supervision. Chance to 
pursue advanced degree Telephone News Director. Kent 
Collins, 314—443-0416. EOE. 


News photographer: Must have minimum of 2 years ex- 
perience news апа sports. Creative. innovalive, aggres- 
Sive individual needed. Must have solid editing skills 
Complete microwave skills, To apply send гезителаре to 
News Director, WJKS, Р.О. Box 17000. Jacksonville. FL 
32245. Tapes will not be returned. WJKS is an equal 
opportunity employer, M/F. 


On-air talent - WTVM, Channel 9, in Columbus. Georgia. 
is Seeking co-host for daily noon-day show, trained voice 
for commercials and moderator for public affairs program. 
Opportunity for producing specials and projects. Number 
ona station in 115th market Send resume and tape to W. 
Carroll Ward, WTVM. Р.О Box 1848, Columbus. GA 
31902. Equal opportunity employer. 


Weathercaster/feature reporter/movie host. Immediate 
Opening for a weather person loaded with personality. 
Must be good ad-libber, and some knowledge of weather 
would be a plus. Duties also include producing feature 
stories and hosting an afternoon movie. Send tape and 
resume 10: KJCT-TV, 8 Foresight Cre.. Grand Junction. 
CO 81505. No calls will be accepted. EOE. 


Reporter/anchor: 2 years expenence. Send tapes & re- 
sumes to KIMO-TV. 2700 E. Tudor Rd.. Anchorage, AK 
99507. No calls. EOE. 


Talk show host(ess) and co-anchor. Small market. top- 
rated Texas affiliate seeks morning talk show host(ess) 
and mid-day co-anchor. Desire candidates with at least 3 
years of reporting. anchor and/or related experience. de- 
gree and good on-air presence. Excellent compensation 
package. Send resume and tape to News Director, KLST- 
TV, 2900 Armstrong, San Angelo, TX 76903. EOE. 


News photographer - 2-3 years experience required. 
Must have a good eye for production value and be able to 
edit оп 3/4” and Beta. Knowledge of computer editing 
helpful. NBC affiliate and Gannett ownership assure com- 
mitment. Send tape, resume and references to Chief Pho- 
tographer, Bill Zetterower. WTLV ТУ-12. 1070 E. Adams 
St, Jacksonville, FL 32202. EOE. 


Director/part-time. Up to 24 hours per week. Duties in- 
clude directing fast-paced newscasts. video taping ses- 
sions and EFP editing Submit resume and tape by Janu- 
ary 27, 1989 to. Personnel. WTRF-TV, 96 Sixteenth St. 
Wheeling, WV 26003. EOE 


Sports anchor: South Bend, ABC affiliate nome of Notre 
Dame and Hoosier hoops hysteria. Mature. authoritative 
Sports journalist with minimum two years sports anchor 
experience. Resume and tape with stamped return enve- 
lope to Morrie Goodman. News Director. WSJV-TV. Р.О. 
Box 1646. Elkhart, IN 48515. EOE. 

Á 
We want reporters who can write. Blonde hair and blue 
eyes not required. We want reporters who can think. Blue 
blazers and penny loafers not required It you аге a jour- 
nalist, please send your resume and tape lo: Robert Stol- 
dal. KLAS-TV. Р.О. Box 15047, Las Vegas. NV 89114. We 
broadcast two and a half hours of news a day so we also 
want reporters who can work. EOE. 


HELP WANTED PROGRAMING 
PRODUCTION & OTHERS 


Camera crews: Production company looking Юг best 
freelance crews in country. Minimum five years profes- 
sional experience. Send resume, VHS tape. references. 
rales and equipment info to PO Box 14783, Chicago. IL 
60614-0783. EOE 


Grip:Experienced, crealive, quality minded person need- 
ed to assist videographer/director in the execution of loca- 
lion production videos. Duties include handling lighting 
equipment, audio, Betacams, dolly. boom. and props for a 
Great Lakes network affiliate/production company. Send 
resume and salary history to Box A-24. EOE. 


Videographer: Experienced, creative. quality minded 
person needed to shoot and direct film style Betacam 
productions, including commercials and industrial videos 
and mulli-camera remotes for a Midwest production hou- 
se/commercial station. Send resume and salary require- 
ments to Box А-25. EOE. 


Promotlon writer-producer: Experienced on-air promo- 
tion professional sought by WGAL-TV. central PA's news 
leader. Hands-on editing. heavy news topical background 
required. Send resume to Personnel Director, WGAL-TV. 
РО Box 7127. Lancaster. РА 17604-7127. EOE. 


Producer/reporter - Number one NBC affiliate in Alaska 
looking for a top notch producer and reporter. Experience 
preferred. Please send resume and tape to KTUU-TV, 630 
W. 4th. Anchorage. AK 99501 Salary DOE. FOE Please, 
no phone calls. 


Production manager - Supervise news. commercial pro- 
duclion in sunny Southeast. Minimum one year news and 
commercial directing experience. Resume and tapes to 
Jim Baker. WGXA-TV. Box 340. Macon. GA 31297. EOE. 


Tape library supervisor for Independent TV station in 
Southwest. Expenenced in tape/film editing. ordering, 
shipping & receiving, usage reports. and personnel su- 
pervision & training. Send resume including references 
and salary required lo Box A-35. 


Videotape editors needed for staff and Ireelance posi- 
tions with Philadelphia area production facility. GYG 
switchers. СМХ. Mirage, DVE, Chyron. Dubner paint sys- 
em, ect. Must be experienced and have quality reputa- 
tion. EM resume including salary/rate desired to Box А- 
32. А 


РгодисНоп manager ior Northeast УНЕ. Busy production 

department needs creative. organized leader, knowledge- 

able in production of creative commercials, promotions 

and public service. Hands-on experience preferred. We 

have "the tools" and the staff. We need someone who can 

Е есет Salary and benefit pkg. Join a winner. EOE 
x А-31. 


Television production specialist: The Centers lor Dis- 
ease Control announces an employment opportunity at its 
headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia. Candidates must have 
broad experience and traming in television operations and 
engineering. Must be a hands-on and creatve individual 
capable of assuming primary responsibility for all techni- 
cal aspects of television studio and field production activi- 
ties including video and audio operations. videotape com- 
puter editing, video production system design and 
installation and electronic maintenance supervision. Expe- 
rience with video teleconference technical operations an- 
diar interactive videodisc production is desirable. $34.510 
annual salary. Federal Civil Service benefits and retire- 
ment program. Interested candidates should send their 
applications (Standard Form 171, Application for Federal 
Employment) to Mr. Paul Herrington. Centers for Desease 
Control. Personnel Office, Building 1. Room 1050, 1600 
Clifton Rd., NE, Atlanta. GA 30333. to be postmarked not 
later than January 31. 1989. For more details about this 
position contact Paul Horton, 404—839-1746 CDC is an 
equal opportunity employer and provides a smoke-free 
work environment. 


The Suncoast is calling! Seeking specialists in produc- 
tion. promotion, and program development Rush non- 
returnable VHS samples. P.O. Box 22607, Tampa. FL 
33622-2607. EOE 


Program/operations manager. Experience ргеенео 
Salary negotiable. Contact Shell Storrier at МКТУ, РО. 
Box 2. Utica. NY 13503. EOE. 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
125 


—— ڪڪ 
Post-production editor: Mus! have strong retail back-‏ 
ground with agency references. State-of-the-art facility.‏ 
Ace 200 editor, ADO 2-channel with digitrail, Chyron, Still‏ 
Store, 1" and SP Beta. 3-11 shift. Only experienced should‏ 
apply. No phone calls! Send resume. tape and salary‏ 
requirements to Production Manager, WATL 36, One Mon-‏ 
тое PI., Atlanta, СА 30324. Confidentiality of course! EOE.‏ 


WTNH-8 (New Haven/Hartford) is looking for a creative 
services director. Must have 3-5 years previous manage- 
ment experience with emphasis on news promotion. Sand 
resumes (no telephone calls) to: Lew Freifeld, Vice Presi- 
den! and General Manager. WTNH-8. B Elm St. New 
Haven. CT 06510. Equal opportunity employer. 


Commercial director - Top 40 affiliale seeks a creative, 


We've got the reporters, we've got the anchors. we've 
до! the ratest tools including an SNG truck. We need more 
producers who are good joumalists. Send tape and writ- 
ing samples to: Robert Stoldal, News Director, KLAS-TV, 
Р.О. Вох 15047, Las Vegas. МУ 89114. EOE. 


while you are doing it, then you are ready to join the new 
team at WPTT-TV in Pittsburgh Send your reel, resume 
and latter to Tom Shannon. WPTT-TV. РО. Box 2809. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15230. EOE. 


and produce local commercials. We're looking for a highly 
motivated individua! with exceilent creative writing skills, 
the ability to work with clients, and a creative eye. tt you 
have a Strong production background. and would like to 
work in well equipped production facility. send your demo 
tape. along with a brief cover letter and your resume to: 
Tom Jeans, Production Manager, KSFY-TV, 300 North 
Dakota Ave., Suite 100, Sioux Falls, SD 57102. EOE. 


Art director: Leading film/video production company i5 
seeking an art director with extensive 2-D and 3-D com- 
puter graphics experience. Aurora ог Symbolics experi- 
ence preferred. Position requires extensive design back- 
ground. strong communication skills, and a thorough 
understanding of computer graphics as they relate to film 
and video production. Send resume and demo reel to: 
General Manager, Telemation Productions. 7700 E. Iliff 
Ave.. Suite Н, Denver. CO 80231. No phone calls EOE. 


SITUATIONS WANTED MANAGEMENT 


Sports pro needed? Looking for new challenges at local 
station or PR firm. Currently employed at nat'l TV network. 
Extensive sports production experience. Radio producer 
for MLB team. Call lan at 413—734-2475. 


General manager/station manager: Strong self motivator 
with key strengths in sales and tight budget controls. Have 
turned around stations and | am ready to do it again. 
Reply Box 4-52. 


SITUATIONS WANTED NEWS 


15 угз. radio and TV know-how. Available January. Seek 
anchor position with station Southwest. Tape avaiable. 
But prefer interview and live audition. Mature, authoritative 
credibility on air. Sincere. White male Willing to double as 
salesperson if needed. Will consider part time anchor to 
start. AM сай, 214—270-1114. Ray. 


Sportscaster: Low energy. nothing to look at, loves net- 
work feeds, emmy award loser and good at ıl. 10 years 
experience, Looking for new Challenge. Favorably under- 
whelmed? Call 804—495-4115. 


Associate producer/productlon assistant with strong 
writing and organizational skills from working in local me- 
dia. Kevin 314—762-2179. 


Meteorologist -- NWA certified. 20+ years in the busi- 
ness. Colorgraphics and Kavouras graphics experience. 
People oriented. Also hosted talk shows and telethons. 
Available immediately. Call Thomas 317—290-B56B or 
write Box A-33 


Peabody & DuPont award winner. Extensive network & 
major market experience. Looking 1o run serious. hard- 
edged operation in a top 20 market. Top references. Box 
A-34. 


| will work hard for you! Three years experience in New 
York in production and research. Highly motivated, solid 
Skills. Journalism degree. Will work hard in your newsroom 
as writer/producer Will consider other positions. Contact 
Pamela 212—348-8741. 


SITUATIONS WANTED PROGRAMING 
PRODUCTION & OTHERS 


Research manager, 3 years sales promotion at top Indy 
in major market (Currently employed). seeks cross-over to 
programing or program development research. Excellent 
writing, ratings analysis. Broadcast/cable network or sta- 
tion group preferred, All offers considered. Box A-39. 


Commercial writer/producer/director in low 50's market 
desires to relocate. Ten years experience. Prefer agency/ 
production house or Independent. Box A-48. 


MISCELLANEOUS 


Primo People has the answers to your queslions. News 
directors and talent...find out what we can do for you! Call 
Steve Porricelli or Fred Landau at 203—637-3653, or send 
tape and resume to Box 116, Old Greenwich, CT 96870- 
0116. 


Bill Slatter's talent agent directory. Invaluable for staton 
and talent. $52.00 for stations. $37.00 talent. P.O. Box 
7076, Evanston, IL 60201. 312—328-3660. 


Attention Job-hunters! The Hot Sheet puts you in touch 
with broadcasting's most attractive career opportunities. 
Published twice weekly. Money-back guarantee. Climb 
aboard and discover where the action is! Media Market- 
ing. PO Box 1476-PD, Palm Harbor, FL 34682-1476. 
B13— 786-3603. 


Career Videos. Help realize your goal of job search suc- 
cess. Let us put together your personalized video resume 
tape. 312—272-2917. 


ALLIED FIELDS 


HELP WANTED INSTRUCTION 


Eam a Master's Degree in Film and Video from The 
American University School of Communication in Wash- 
ington, D.C. Graduate Assistantships available. Excellent 
laculty and D.C. production opportunities. For more infor- 
mation, write to: School of Communication. Graduate Film 
and Video Program. The American University, Washing- 
ton, D C. 20016. An EEO/AA University. 


Radio, television, and fllm. The RTF Dept. at the Univ. of 
Southern Mississippi continues to grow in enrollment and 
is enjoying modernization of facilities and equipment. As a 
result of growth and change. an instructor or assistant 
professor is needed to teach courses/supervise lab activi- 
lies in the Broadcast Joumalism emphasis. Applicants 
should also be able to teach introductory courses in radio 
and/or TV production. Master's degree required; Ph.D. 
preferred; professional broadcast news experience de- 
sired, Send letter, resume. and three current letters of 
recommendation by January 31. 1989, to Dr. David H. 
Golf, Chair; RTF Dept. - USM: Box 5141. Southern Station: 
Hattiesburg. MS 39406. AA/EOE. 


Stephens College, a private four-year college Юг women 
with a libéral arts base and ad commitment to advising as 
an integral part of leaching. has the following position 
available Fall 1989: Chair. Department of Communica- 
lions. Fulltime, tenure track. M.A. required, Ph.D. pre- 
ferred Broadcast industry experience on the programing 
or management level and demonstrated teaching ability at 
the college level required. Knowledge and appreciation of 
the role of women's education and role of women in com- 
munications media. Concern for communications and me- 
dia issues as they relate to a liberal arts curriculum. Re- 
sponsibilities include: Planning, ^ implementation, 
coordination and review of educational program and man- 
agement of facilities. Teaching in the area of broadcasting 
media with emphasis on television production, madia pro- 
graming, writing and management. Department offers 
B.S. in Communications and Public Relations and B.A. in 
Journalism and Communications Media. Facilities include 
а public FM radio station, fully equipped 3-camera color 
Studio. radio and television editing facilities. desk-top 
publishing system, and a college-wide audio-visual ser- 
vices center. Lelter of application. vitae, three letters of 
recommendation wilh addresses and telephone numbers. 
and copies of transcripts should be sent to: Dr. Robert С. 
White, Box 2112. Stephens College. Columbia. MO 
65215. Applications deadline March 1. 1989. Stephens 
College is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employ- 
er. 


Unique teaching opportunity, Teach journalism in a fully 
commercial television newsroom. Chance to pursue ad- 
vanced degree. The University of Missouri School of Jour- 
nalism needs a supervisor for students producing top- 
rated newscasts at KOMU-TV/NBC. Prior newscast 
producing experience required. Telephone news director 
Kent Collins 314-—443-0416. EOE. 


For fast 
Action Use 


BROADCASTING'S 
Ciassified Advertising 


HELP WANTED MANAGEMENT 


Director of Corporate Support: University of Florida, 
Public broadcasting position [ог WUFT-TV/FM. Experi- 
enced individual sought to plan, organize and implement 
generation of revenue and in-kind services from the cor- 
porate seclor. Responsibilities include securing program 
underwriting grants, согрогае pledge challenge grants 
and production grants frorn business and professional 
Communities. Minimum qualifications: Master's in Market- 
Ing. Communications. Advertising or related field or a 
Bachelor's in same plus 2 years directly related profes- 
sional work experience. Desire strong written and verbal 
communications skills. Public broadcasting experience 
preferred: broadcast sales or marketing experience pre- 
ferred. Anticipated starting salary is $27,000 plus fringe 
benefits. To apply send a letter referencing Coordinator, 
Advancement Alumni Alfairs position #940270 and com- 
plete resume by January 27, 1989 to: Steve Wing, Recruit- 
ment Coordinator, Central Employment Center. Room 446 
Stadium West, University of Florida. Gainesville, FL 32611. 
И is University policy to conduct all searches in the open 
subject to the provisions of existing law. EEO/AA employ- 
ег. 


HELP WANTED SALES 


Jingles Sales. Experienced only please for America's 
hottest (and one of the oldest) jingle companies. 1—800— 
68-0033. 


HELP WANTED MISCELLANEOUS 


Financial analyst - Broadcast Investment Analysts is 
seeking a senior analyst with experience in evaluation of 
the communications industry. Position requires an articu- 
late person to interact with clients, Strong research and 
computer skills. Send resume and salary requirements in 
Confidence to: Frank Higney. BIA, Box 17307, Washing- 
ton, D.C. 20041. EOE, 


SITUATIONS WANTED SALES 


Money keeps score. But quality living. challenge, travel 

and perks mean more. For thirty years I've written, report- 

ed. produced, edited and managed newscasts. Now il's 

е oran interesting change. Overseas Okay. Any ideas? 
ох Р-63. 


MISCELLANEOUS 


Freelance videographers: AMERICAN HEAT will buy 
quality video of major fire; emergency; emergency medi- 
cal; and police incidents. Call 1—800— 722-2443. 


EMPLOYMENT SERVICES 


Goverment jobs. 59.811 - $86,682/yr, Guarantee: Job or 
moneyback. Federal list. (1) 805—887-6000 ext. R-3000. 


Be on T.V. Many needed for commercials. Casting info. 
1—805—687-6000 Ext TV-7833. 


Alrlines now hiring. Flight attendants. travel agents, me- 
chanics, customer service. Listings. Salanes to $105K. 
Entry level positions. Call 1—805—687-6000 Ext. A-7833. 


Talent coaching: For TV reporters. Polish anchoring. 
standups. interviewing. writing. Teleprompter. Learn from 
former ABC Network News correspondent/New York local 
reporter Demo tapes. Private tessons. Group workshops 
Feb. 12 and March 12. 212-921-0774. Eckhen Special 
Productions (ESP). 


WANTED TO BUY EQUIPMENT 


Wanting 250, 500, 1,000 and 5,000 watt AM-FM transmit- 
ters. Guarantee Radio Supply Corp.. 1314 Iturbide Street, 
Laredo, TX 78040. Manuel Flores 512— 723-3331. 


Instant cash-best prices. We buy TV transmitters, 
towers. and transmission line. Bill Kitchen. Quality Media, 
303— 665-3767 


1" videotape. Looking for large quantities. 30 minutes or 
longer will pay shipping. Call 301—845-8888. 


Wanted: Satellite automation equipment. Carousels 
and instacarts. Bryan Romeijn, 907—586-3630. 


Maze Broadcast pays cash for selected television & vid- 
ес equipment. Phone or fax your list now. 205—956-2227. 


FM antenna(s) - Will buy used FM broadcast antenna(s) - 
Any make - Any model - Call 806—372-4518. 


7 and 13 GHz used microwave systems. Fax list and 
prices 209 —523-0898. 


FOR SALE EQUIPMENT 


AM and FM transmitter, used excellent condition. Guar- 
anteed. Financing available. Transcom. 215—884-0888. 
Telex 910—240-3856. 


50KW AM °" CCA-AM 50,000D (1976). excellent condition 
^" Transcom Corp. 215—884-0888, TELEX 910—240- 
3856. 


AM Transmitters °" ССА AM 10.0000 (1970), Collins 
B20F (1978) ** Gates BC-5P2 (1966) “* Collins 21E °° 
McMartin ВА 2,5K (1981) ** Transcom Corp. 215—884- 
0888, TELEX 910—240-3856. 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
126 


FM Transmitters ** Harris FM20K (1987). AEL 25KG 
(1977) °" Harris FM20K (1981), RCA BTF20E1 (1975) ** 
Harris FM10H3 (1974), RCA BTF10D (1968). CCA 
2500RD (1982) 2.5 KW FM ** Transcom Corp. 215—884- 
0888, TELEX 910—240-3856. 


1KW AM Transmitters "" Harris SX-1 (1983) "* Harris 
МУТА (1983) ** Collins 829202 (1981) ** CSI T1A (1981) 
** Collins 20V3 ** Bauer 707 °" Gates BC-1T ** Transcom 
Corp. 215—884-0888. 


AM Transmitters °" ССА AM 10.0000 (1970), Collins 
В20Е (1978) ** Gates BC-5P2 (1966) ^^ McMartin BA 2.5K 
(1981) °" Transcom Corp. 215—884-0888, TELEX 910— 
240-3856. 


RCA UHF TV transmitter: Parallel 60 kw, mid-band Kly- 
strons, available immediately $85.000. Call Bill Kitchen. 
303—665-8000. 


Silverline UHF TV transmitters. New. best price and 
performance. 35 Kw. 70 Kw, 140 Kw, 280 Kw, also branc 
new air cooled 10 Kw Klystrode transmitter. Bill Kitchen 
Television Technology, 303—665-8000. 


1000” Kline tower, Standing in Nebraska. Available im- 
mediately. Can move anywhere. Call Bill Kitchen. Televi- 
sion Technology 303— 665-8000. 


Channel 8 transmitter and antenna GE4TTGE24TF4A1 
Good condition available immediately. Bill Kitchen 303— 
665-8000, ext. 101. 


FM antennas. СР antennas, excellent price quick deliv- 


latized. Jampro Antennas, Inc. 916—383-1177. 


RCA-TCR100 Сап machine parts for sale. WBRC-TV 
205—322-6666. 


Dielectric 4-Port motorized patch panel 3 1/8” for sale. 
WBRC-TV. 205—322-6666. J. P. Thorn. 


Kline Tower 645 ft with two platforms. has been disman- 
ted. 205—322-6666. WBRC-TV. 


RCA ТР-66 Film Projector and RCA TP-15 Multiplexer for 
sale. WBRC-TV, 205—322-6666. 


Broadcast equipment (used), Transmitters. STL's. re- 
mote antennas, monitors, consoles. processing. tape 
equipment. automation, tumtables. Continental Communi- 
Cations. Вох 78219, St. Louis, MO 63178. 314—664-4497, 


Fidelipac audio cartridges. Various lengths. Model 300. 
Quantity discounts. Technichrome 702—386-2844. 


Dielectric 4-Port Patch Panel 3 1/8" for sale WBRC-TV. 
205—322-666. J.P. Thorn. 


Ikegami HL-79EAL$ available. Three cameras, superbly 
maintained (by Kunio Fuse), with 13x Canons. AC. Beta- 
daptors, etc. $26,000 each, 60-day warranty. Ikegami 
ADC-79E Auto Setup Box. $4,000. Sony BVH-500A, with 
power supply. playback, good condition, $6.500. Call 
Matt at 215—665-3747. 


Copper! #8 & #10 ground radials; 2.3.4,6,8" strap; fly 
screen; ground screen. 800—622-0022. Ask for Copper 
Sales. 


RUST remote control model 108 studio, transmitter units 
with manuals, $250.00. Also Rust series "F" studio, trans- 
milter units $250.00. Hughey-Phillips model BF60A tower 
lighting unit $75.00. RCA MI-11982 cartridge switcher, 
$50.00. Texas Electronics digital readout thermometer 


Broadcast quality videotape - 1" and 3/4" professionally 
evaluated-guaranteed-introductory prices; 1" 30 min. - 
$12.00 1" 60 min. -$28.00 КСАбО -$8.50 KCS20 -$4.00 
KCS10 -$3.00. For quantity discounts, call today, VSI, 1— 
800—346-4669. 


Wave guida - WR1150 rectangular. approximately 1200 
foot plus 50 foot horizontal. elbow. Almost new. will work 
оп any channel between channels 42 and 69. Actual cost 
$120,000, will sell for $80,000.00. Call Sudbrink Broad- 
casting, 1—407—689-0220. 


Scientific Atlanta, model 8005, 4.6 meter satellite anten- 
nas. $2,500, Broadcast quality receivers. model SA414. 
$1,075. Megastar, 702—386-2844. 


Videc-tape evaluators, all Recortecs, two each 1", two 
each 2", three each 3/4". $10,000 for all. Technichrome 
702— 386-2844. 


Betacam, 3/4" and 1" blank videotape. не Т Е L EVI S | О М 


guaranteed and evaluated. Betacam - $5.99, 

minutes $4.99, 3/4" - 60 minutes $8.99, 1" - 60 minutes i 
$24.99 in quantity. Magnetically examined, cleaned and Help Wanted Technical 
packaged. Guaranteed 10 perform as new. Sony. 3M. Fuji 
or Ampex. Free shipping. For more info, call toll free, 1— 
800—-238-4300. 


Two IKE 79 EAL, 4 and 5 years old with 14х1 zoom lens 
with 2x extender, case, anton power supply. Excellent 
cond. Asking $22,500. ea. Call 617—861-7171; ask for 
John or David. V 


BVW-10s, BVW-15s, BVW-20s, BVW-40s, Low prices. 
Many RCA TP-66s, excellent condilion. Ampex ACE edi- 
tor, loaded. RCA TK-29 and TK-29 cameras and islands. 
See us at NRB booth #1814. Call now to list your surplus 
equipment or for your needed equipment. Media Con- 
cepts 919—977-3600 or FAX 919—977-7298. 


Inventory of successful production music library for sale 
by producer. Proven sales record. Jim Hegarty. 414— 


ENGINEERS 
248-3707. 


E: Я ЕУ З 
Тутутуту FORTUNE 500 owned indy is expanding operations! The following 


ing. Excellent condition, very low hours. $12.500/otter. engineering positions are available: 
Aldo Panattoni, 415—583-8236. 


Low cost - 1" Sony BVU-1000 with TBC, new heads. This 
is а юр notch basic 1" VTR. Meets new spec. - 
$12,000.00. Full 30 day warranty. Call Video Brokers. Inc. 
407—851-4595. 


e Assistant Chief-Engineer • Maintenance Engineer 


Beta Field Record Play VTA - BVU-25's low time, new State of the art broadcast facility. Good benefits, great people 
О Се Беке Rg and a superb California lifestyle. Resume and salary 
Beta BVW-3A Cam/Rec Package - New units - "0" Hours requirements to: 


- 3 left. $15,900.00 with lens, carrying case, tripod plate. 1 

30 day warranty. Call Video Brokers, Inc. 407.—851-4595. кшн о 
Ampex VPR-80's - 9 in stock - Low hours. new heads with (M^ BOX 
TBC-6. Get immediate delivery - On 1" Ampex from Video Santa Barbara, CA 93140-4279 
Brokers. Call Video Brokers, Inc. 407—851-4595. 


Sony 1* - In stock - BVH-1100A's with BVT-2000 TBC's - 


New heads, complete refurb. - 60 day warranty. Call Video p zi. | 

Brokers, Inc. 407—851-4595. К | р ГҮ. 

Close Outs - Ampex VPR-20 Portable 1" with Colour p re Em: 
Stabalizer, AC, battery Charger. and batteries - $5,000.00. 
VPP-5 (Nagra/Ampex) portable 1° - demo units - with 
accessories $10K. Garner - heavy duty Degansser, list 
over $6K - Demo units - $3,500.00. Call Video Brokers, 
Inc. 407—851-4595. 

Big Switcher 24 Input Ampex 4000 with options - Re- 
duced to $7.5. Ready to ship. Call Video Brokers, Inc. 


Goss val a T FIELD ENGINEER 


dual disc drive for E-Mem system - list over $45 - net 


парные" | PROFESSIONAL VIDEO PRODUCTS 


Ikegami Dual 9" B & W - New - $500 per pair. Call Video 
Brokers, Inc. 407—851-4595. 


Tene E a re Broadcast Division of a major video products manu- 
Save 75%. Сап Мово Brokers ere | facturer headquartered in New Jersey seeks a Field 
RADIO Engineer to assist its Sales Department based in Ft. 


Help Wanted Technical я 
Lauderdale Office. 


CHIEF ENGINEER/AM-FM 


а reri Bc ier Pn Successful candidates should have a strong work- 

Please send complete resume and references to: ing knowledge and minimum two years of "hands- 

3509 Washington Ave. on" experience with Professional Broadcast Video 
vanevitle, tndiana 47715 5 й 

Epe Cameras. Degree preferred but is not essential. 

ENJOY THE СВОБ DFE Some travel required. 

МЕ е мешн ‚ИЮ Interested candidates are requested to send ге- 
Vigan OIE E WA EO. о e. d sal irements in confidence to: 
lon, Матто 08701. Phone — 802-775 sume and salary requirements in confidence to: 

Situations Wanted News Director, Engineering 
Е ee Ikegami Electronics (U.S.A), Inc. 
Major market sports talent available. Done 37 Brook Avenue, Maywood, NJ 07607 


it all - PBP, talk, reporting, even news and 


general talk - for a decade. PBP is awe- 


== Ikegami 


Box A-9 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
127 


Help Wanted Technical Continued 


CJTNN 


TNN, à leading cable television production 
company, is seeking qualified applicants for 
the following positions: 


EARTH STATION MAINTENANCE AND 
OPERATING ENGINEER: The incumbent 
will operate, test and maintain transmit- 
ting, receiving and monitoring equipment 
used by the earth station. He/she will have 
at least three to five years experience 
working with television broadcast earth 
station installation, maintenance, opera- 
tion and design. FCC general radio tele- 
phone license and/or SBE certification is 
preterred. 


TRANSPORTABLE EARTH STATION 
ENGINEER: The incumbent will drive, set 
up and operate equipment to include sat- 
elite transmit, receive and monitoring 
electronics at remote locations. Incumbent 
will verify transponder and owner clear- 
ance, performs cross-pol check and 
transmits. He/she will have at least two lo 
three years experience with television 
transportabie earth station installation, 
maintenance, operation and design. Must 
have (or be able to obtain) a Tennessee 
special chauffeur's license and have a 
good driving record. 


TNN offers competitive salaries, excellent 
benefits and a professional working atmo- 
sphere. Please send a resume to: 
OPRYLAND BROADCAST 
Attn: Employment Manager 
2806 Opryland Drive 
Nashville, TN 37216 
(615) 871-6959 


We are an Equal Opportunity Employer 


Help Wanted Programing Production & Others 


KUED 


PRODUCTION 

MANAGER 
Bachelor's degree in Communica- 
tions or related fieid or equivalency 
plus 3 years related experience in a 
supervision or management position 
in television program production with 
a working knowledge of all aspects of 
television production and copyright 
laws and previous experience as a 
producer required. Previous experi- 
ence in budget prepartation and grant 
proposals preferred. Sets production 
goals, standards, schedules and 
deadlines for department. Evaluates 
proposals and production in progress 
for technical quality and content. 
Identifies funding sources and works 
with the Development Department 
and Business Office in preparation of 
grant proposals. Writes and keeps re- 
cords of production contracts, talent, 
and copyright agreements. Adrninis- 
ters department budget, supervises 
production staff and responsible for 
all hiring. Assists general manager in 
long-ragnge planning and other activ- 
ities as directed. Acts as Producer or 
Executive Producer as needed. Sub- 
mit application and/or two copies of 
resume with the names, addresses 
and telephone numbers of three refer- 
ences 10: 

UNIVERSITY OF UTAH 
PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT 
101 Annex Building, SC-5787 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84112 

Equai Opportunity Employer 


Help Wanted News 


KADY, 
TV 


MAJOR NEWS EXPANSION 


FORTUNE 500 owned indy producing regional newscast at its flagship 
station. We need aggressive hard-chargers for the following positions: 


e News Director * Assignment Manager 


* Director 


* Producer 


* Reporters 


If you're the best, come live the good life in Southern California. 
Resume, tape and salary requirments to NEWS SEARCH, 
P. O. Box 4279, Santa Barbara, CA 93140-4279. Equal Opportunity 


Employer. 


RIKLIS BROADCASTING 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
128 


FORMER NETWORK T.V. 
NEWS PRODUCER 


Sought for a very lucrative ($75К +) N.Y.C.- or Miami- 
based position as a consullant to an expanding. high- 
powered TV publicity firm with national clients and 
contacts. We are a group of former producers doing 
TV publicity to high journalistic standards. We require 
the same commitment plus a good working relation- 


ship with the most influential contacts al the network 
TV news level. You needn't work at our New York, S.F. 
orMiami offices. Work fram your home year-round, on 
easy schedule. Send resume plus general outline of 
areas of media influence to: 


PRIMETIME 
1221 BRICKELL AVENUE 
9TH FLOOR 
MIAMI, FL 33131 
EOE 


Help Wanted News Continued 


WLS-TV/Chicago, the number one 
station in the best news market in 
the country, is looking for an ex- 
perienced news promotion pro- 
ducer with a minimum of three 
years experience. If you are ag- 
gressive and love and under- 
stand news promotion, RUSH 
your tape and resume to Fran 

reston, Director of Creative Ser- 
vices, WLS-TV, 190 N. State St., 
Chicago, IL 60601. No phone 
calls, please. EOE, M/F. 


Situations Wanted News 


FEMALE NETWORK 
SPORTS ANCHOR 
Looking for more rewarding position 
№ TV sports 
in medium to large market 
5 years NYC experience, but willing to relocate tor a 
position that offers more than just а good salary. 
718—545-3139 


АВЕ YOU LOOKING FOR...? 
1. Sportscaster 


(full or part-time) 

А, Winning Personality 

B. Major Market Experience 

C. Strong Reporting & Writing 
Excellent Show Host 
Outstanding Play-By-Play 
Football / Basketball 


"Then call me now!" 
(415) 878-0716 


Sítuations Wanted Management 


Profit Oriented 
General Manager/Station Manager 
Strong leader with great skills in sales. programing. 


promotion and financials. Looking for the right сррог- 
tunity with quality broadcaster Have managed sta: 
tions with great resulls in large and medium markets 
Excellent credentials 


Reply Box A-57 


ALLIED FIELDS 


Help Wanted Miscellaneous 


a 


PUBLICIST 


Walt Disney World Со. has ап immediate 
opening for a Publicist within our Mar- 
keting Division. 


Qualified applicants will possess a mini- 
mum of five years experience in broad- 
cast journalism. Excellent public relations 
and writing skills essential. A depree in 
journalism or a related field preferred. 


We offer a competitive benefit package 
as well as our wonderful Florida climate. 
If you are interested in joining a company 
that will give you every opportunity for 
growth and development, please send your 
resume with salary requirements, in con- 
fidence, to: 
Wait Disney World Co. 
Professional Staffing РВ-1 


PO. Box 10,090 
Lake Buena Vista, FL 32830 


1989 The Walt Disney Company 


леч World. 


An Equal Opportunity Employer 


Public Notices 


The Board of Directors of National Public Radio will 
meet in open session on Wednesday, February 8, 
1989, beginning at 10:00 a m. in the Federal Room of 
the Stoulter Madison Hotel, 515 Madison Street, Seat 
lle, Washington. Subject to amendment. the agenda 


ncludes: Chair's Report, President's Report and Com 
mittee Reports. FY 1990 Budget. The DistributiorvIn- 
terconnection Committee will meet on Monday, Febru: 
ary 6 in Executive Session and again on Tuesday 
February 7 in open session. The other Committees will 
also meet on Tuesday. February 7, beginning at 9:00 
а.т. at the same location 


Programing Services 


Lum and Abner 


Are Back 
..piling up profits 
for sponsors and stations. 


15-minute programs from 
the golden age of radio. 


PROGRAM DISTRIBUTORS @ РО. Drawer 1737 
Jonesboro, Arkansas 72403 m 501/972-5884 


Employment Services 


GET A JUMP 
ON THE COMPETITION! 


MediaLine is your best source of job 
leads because you hear about jobs just 
hours after we do. A daily telephone report 
puts you in touch with the best jobs at the 
lowest prices. 


800-237-8073 


in CA: 408-296-7353 


Employment Services Continued 


FFE, Inc. 
"The Matchmakers” 
News/Weather'Sports/Talk Show Host 


Talent Search Specialists 


Whether you are just starting your career or you are ready lor that пех! 
move, contaci us describe the nght job for you. Send um your tape and let 
US 90 lo work for you 
Tapes/intormation to FFE, Inc., 
P.O. Box 919, 
Basalt, Colorado 61621 
3 927- 


poe o тын тиз пиз пиз тиз кшз u— киз киз 


California 
Broadcast Job Bank 
For application information call 
(916) 444-2237 


Californla Broadcasters Association 
[ EES EER со HE FE NM M M MN 


For Sale Stations 


WTRX-AM 
TOP 100 МАВКЕТ/5 KILOWATT 


Located on 9+ Acre Parcel 
Flint, Michigan 
Tuesday, January 31 at 11 AM 
Sale to be Heid at 
Hyatt Regency Flint 


S. Saginaw and Roarsiay Sts. 


(One Riverfront Center West) 


Terms: For complete terms, brochure, deposit and information 


packet, contact: 


Michael Fox Auctioneers, 


Executive Offices ® 3835 Naylors Lane 


inc. 


Baltimore, Maryland 21208 € 301/653-4000 € FAX 301/653-4069 


Southwest Office € Dallas/Ft. Worth 


QUESTIONS OF LAW? 


Contact " 
BROADCAST MEDIA LEGAL SERVICES 
a service of McCabe & Allen 


FOR IMMEDIATE LEGAL ASSISTANCE CALL 


1-800-433-2636 


(In Virginia, call 703-361-6907) 


QUALITY, FLAT FEE LEGAL SERVICES 
AMEX МС VISA CHOICE 


MEDIA BROKERS • APPRAISERS 
RADIO e TV * LPTV 
А Я ; А 


Confidential & Personal Service 


BURT 
SHERWOOD.. 


Y АУ у; 
3125 Maple Leat Dr. * Glenview, IL 60025 


312.272.4970 7: W 


VENTURE CAPITAL 
DEBT FINANCING 


For broadcasters 


Sanders & Co. 
1900 Emery St., Ste. 206 
Atlanta, GA 30318 
404—355-6800 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
129 


800/722-3334 


BE Meadar d aoc. 


MEDIA BROKERS 
AM-FM-TV-Appraisals 
P.O. BOX 36 


LEXINGTON, MO 64067 
816-259-2544 


KANSAS CITY, MO. 
816-455-0001 


100,000 watts In large 
$700,000. 
Powerful 
$590,000. 
AM/FM within 80 miles of 
$350,000. Terms. 


Broadcast Communications Division 


BUSINESS BROKER ASSOCIATES 
615-756-7635 — 24 Hours 


Montana сиу. 


fulitimer covering St. Louis. 


Lubbock. 


ATTENTION 
FIRST TIME RADIO STATION OWNERS 


10,000 Watt AM Kansas City 


Low Price - Terms Available 
Well-equipped - State-of-the art 


Must see - Inspection invited 


Contact: Rich Bott, 10841 E. 28th St. 
Independence, MO 64052 • 816-252-5050 


THE FUTURE IS NOW 


Radio station investments 
in Tx., La., Miss., 
Ala., ОК., Tenn., and Ark. 
А! price ranges. 
Offering experience and integrity. 


John Mitchell 
Mitchell and Associates 
1939 Bayou Dr. 
Shreveport, LA 71105 
318—868-5409 


Hickman 


Associates 


Mid-Atlantic/Exciting FM opportunity in established 
Coastal town with excellent signal over glamorous 
major resort market Ай new equipment. No cash flow, 
but plenty of upside for instánt appreciation. Asking 
$95,000)terms. 


Virginia/Small market AM with real estate and FM CP 
Asking $325.000/terms 


Ron Hickman 
201—579-5232 


FULLTIME AM 


Class IV in Southern market о! 100,000+. Strong 
economy. Exclusive format. Automated Co-owned 
with FM. Good potential. For sale two ways. [| Ее 
without building, tower. real estate 2) 1500 with 
building. tower and valuable real estate 


Principals only 
Box А-13 


CONSTRUCTION 
PERMIT 
LOUISVILLE KENTUCKY 
AM EXCELLENT FREQUENCY 
SECURITY BANK 
Phone 214—539-0880 or 
817—430-3548 


CENTRAL ILLINOIS FM CP 


Rich agricultural area Booming local economy with 
many new business starts Need construction and 
start up capital. Complete buy out possible 


PMA Marketing Company 
414—482-2638 


$$$ January Clearance $ $ $ 


СР {ог АМ оп 1060 
City Grade over Austin & San Antonio 
only $385,000 cash while it lasts! 


9 Station group & 2 FM CP's in TX & OK 


90% financed, $2,500,000; $250,000 
down 


JAMAR & ASSOCIATES 


HO WILD BASIN RD. #245 AUSTIN, TEXAS 78746 
WILLIAM W. JAMAR - PAUL М. JAMAR 
(512) 327-0570 


For Sale Stations Continued 


SALT LAKE CITY'S 
#9 FM 
$975,000 TERMS! 
Inciudes Real Estate 
and Suburban AM 


Write: 


Felix Farnsworth 

Alicia Broadcasting, Inc. 
180 So. 300 West Suite 200 
Salt Lake City, UT 84111 


FOR SALE: 


CLASS A FM 
LARGE SOUTHEASTERN CITY 
MARKET SIZE IN MID 50'S 
CALL (804) 526-8158 


FLORIDA PANHANDLE 
GROWTH MARKET 
FM/AM $750,000 


Real estate. Dominate stations. 
Make this your Florida base. 


CONTACT BOX A-45 


Eastern North Carolina 


5.000 Watt AM & Class A FM 
Priced for quick Sale $300,000 
including real estate 
Qualified buyers only 


919—786-4498 


AM RADIO STATION 


Must Sell Daytimer in Midwest. 125.000 + Metro 
Population with Great Fringes. College Communi- 
ty with Gooa Business Climate. Priced Right to 
Sell 


Contact Jeff, (319) 236-7700. 


PAUL E. REID COMPANY 


Broker-35 Years Bdc Exp 
Inchana-AM/FM Rated Мк 1 3M 
SC AM/FM 650K 


BUYING OR SELLING 
PAUL Е. REID 


LaGrange. Ga 30240 


BROADCAST 
Ш MEDIA 
ASSOCIATES 


RENO • 702-789-2700 * SEATTLE + 206-643-2116 


FM'S & COMBOS 
CALIFORNIA 
$1,250,000 - $5,000,000 
NORTHWEST 
$500,000 - $3,500,000 
CLIFF HUNTER 
800—237-3777 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
130 


SOUTHEAST 
ATLANTA (FULLTIME) 
ORLANDO (CASH FLOW) 
MISS. (UP-GRADE) 
AM/FM FLA. W. COAST 
FM X US. VIRG. ISL. 50KW 
FM М. FL. (CASH FLOW) 


HADDEN & ASSOC. 407—365-7832 


FOR SALE 


Channel 36 - Charleston, South Carolína CP 
for sale or joint venture. Brokers protected. 
Call or write David Wagner, Winston Mutual 
Bidg., 1225 E. Fifth St., Winston-Salem. NC 
27102 (919) 722-0272. 


FOR SALE 
Midwest Class A-FM 


Excellent Equipment. could go to Class C-2. 
Top station in 50,000 + community. Excellent 
owner/operator opportunity! 


Call (316) 221-9292 


ATLANTA SUBURB 
FULL TIME, CLASS IV, RECENTLY WENT 
BACK ON AIR WITH IDEAL AND EXCLU- 
SIVE FORMAT FOR THIS VERY AFFLUENT 
MARKET. PURCHASE $375,000 OR LEASE 
PURCHASE FOR $10,500 MONTHLY. 
404—237-3345 


BROADCASTING'S CLASSIFIED RATES 


Ail orders to place classilied ads & alt correspondence 
pertaining to this section should ое sent to BROAD- 
CASTING, Classitied Department. 1705 DeSales St 
N W, Washington. ОС 20036 


Payable in advence. Check. or money order only Full 
& correct payment MUST accompany ALL orders 


When placing an ad. indicate the EXACT category 


Deadline is Monday at noon Eastern Time tor the follow. 
ing Mondays issue Earlier deadlines apply Юг issues 
published during a week containing a еда! holiday & а 
special notice announcing the earlier deadline will be 
published above this ratecard Orders. changes, and/ 
Or cancellations must be submitted in writing (NO teie- 
phone orders. changes, and/or canceilations will be 
accepted ) 

Replies to ads with Blind Box numbers Should be ad- 
dressed to: (Box number). c/o BROADCASTING. 1705 
DeSales St, N.W, Washington. DC 20036 
Advertisers using Blind Box numbers Cannot request 
audio tapes, video tapes, transcnplions, films. or VTRS 
10 be lorwarded to BROADCASTING Blind Box num- 
bers Audio tapes. video tapes, transcnptions. films & 
VTR's are not torwardabie, & are returned to the sender 


Publisher reserves the nghi to alter classified copy to 
Conform with the provisions of Title VII of the Civil Rights 
Act ol 1964, as amended. Publisher reserves the right 
lo abbreviate, alter. ог reject any copy No personal 
ads 


Rates: Classified listings (non-display). Per issue’ Help 
Wanted $1 00 per word, $18 weekly minimum Situa- 
lions Wanted (personal ads) 60€ per word. $9.00 
weekly minimum. All other classifications: $1 (0 per 
word, $18.00 weekly minimum. Blind Box numbers: 
$4 00 per issue 

Rates: Classified display (minimum 1 inch, upward in 
halt inch increments), per issue’ Help Wanted $80 per 
inch. Situations Wanted: (personal ads): $50 per inch 
All other classifications: $100 per inch. For Sale Sta- 
lions, Wanted To Buy Stations, Public Notice & Busi- 
ness Opportunities advertising require display space 
Agency commission only on display space 

Word count: Count each abbreviation, initial, single 
figure or group of figures or letters as one word each 
Symbols such as 35mm. COD, PD,etc , count as one 
word each. Phone number with area code or zip code 
Counts as one word each 


John R. Mohr, chief operating officer, Global 
Media Ltd., Marina del Ray, Calif., joins 
SportsChannel Regional Networks, Wood- 
bury, N.Y., as VP and chief operating offi- 
cer. 


Bruce Maggin, senior VP, Capital Cities/ 
ABC Video Enterprises Inc., New York, 
named executive VP. 


David L. Archer, director, international busi- 
ness, Viacom Worldwide, New York, named 
VP, international business development. 


Appointments at Guy Gannett Broadcasting 
Services, division of Guy Gannett Publishing 
Co., Portland, Me.: Michael L. Bock, VP, 
operations, and general manager, КСАМТУ) 
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, named VP-television, 
and will be responsible for company's four 
television stations. Bock replaces Robert L. 
Gilbertson, executive VP, who will retire in 
1989. Timothy А. Williams, VP and general 
manager, WINZ(AM)-WZTA(FM) Miami, named 
VP-radio. Guy Gannett Publishing Со. орег- 
ates eight television and radio stations. 


Dick Drilling, station manager, KMST(TV) 
Monterey, Calif., named VP, Retlaw Broad- 
casting, and general manager, KMST(TV). 


David E. Henderson, CEO, Outlet Communi- 
cations, Providence, R.I., named chairman. 
Henderson replaces Bruce G. Sundlun, who 
announced his retirement after 28 years with 
company. 


Carol Hope Rueppel, news director, WTKR- 


к ® 


New Board. Fox Brosdcas! 


ing Company announced ils new board of governors, elected 


TV Norfolk, Va., named acting general man- 
ager. Rueppel will continue as news director. 


Steve Carver, general 
sales manager, WCBS- 
FM New York, joins 
WOGL(FM) Philadel- 
phia as VP and gener- 
а! manager. 


Dean Thacker, VP and 
general manager, 
Malrite Communica- 
tions’ WHTZ(FM) New 
York, named presi- 
dent, radio division, 
Malrite Communica- 


Carver 


tions Group Inc. 


Bob Bruno, radio general manager, WOR(AM) 
New York, named VP and general manager. 


Thomas Schurr, general sales manager, 
WLZR-AM-FM Milwaukee, joins KROY(FM) 
Sacramento, Calif., as VP and general man- 
ager. 


Rich Nichols, general manager, KXUS(FM) 
Springfield, Mo., joins KWTO-AM-FM there as 
VP and general manager. 


Christopher Zimmerman, УР, television 
noncommercial WXXI-AM-FM-TV Rochester, 
N.Y., joins noncommercial WQLN-TV-FM 
Erie, Pa., as president and general manager. 


Ray Leafstedt, president and general manag- 
er, KOEL-AM-FM Oelwein, Iowa, named 
VP/area group manager, Iowa and Kansas, 
Independence Broadcasting. Leafstedt will 
continue to be based in Oelwein as overall 


by delegates from Fox's 123 affiliates last October, а! Fox's annua’ affiliate convention 
Jan. 7 п Los Angeles New board members: Back row, l-r: Jamie Kellner, president and 
chief aperaling обсег, Fox Broadcasting Company; Bob Wormington, general manager, 
«знати Kansas City, Мо. Mike Fisher, VP and genéral manager, krxu(Tv) Sacramento, 
Call: Donita Todd. president and general manager, wNRW(Tv) Greensboro, М.С.; Ed 
Groves, VP and general manager, KASN(TV) Little Rock, Ark.; Stuart Powell, former board 
member, genera. manager. кмху-ту Phoenix, and VP, Scripps-Howard Broadcasting; Joe 
Young, VP and general manager, wxiN(Tv) Indianapolis; Jim Boaz, VP and general 
manager, итғхту Philadelphia; Larry Blum, VP and general manager, wuPwt(rv) Toledo, 
Orie; Barry Diller, сһатгап and CEO, Fox Inc. Front row: Bill Jenkins, VP and general 
manager, wxx-rv Cincinnat, Martin Colby, VP and general manager, xeTv(TV) San Diego 
(board's previous chairmen, now advisor); Kevin O'Brien, VP and general manager, 
krTeumv, San Francisco. Board of governors acts in advisory capacity on behalf of Fox 
alfiiales in operalion and growth of Fox Broadcasting Company 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
131 


president and general manager of KOEL-AM- 
FM. 


Kris Foate, sales manager, WQFM(FM) Mil- 
waukee, named general manager. 


Bob Oakes, president, Communicast, syndi- 
cation firm for news/talk stations, joins WLAC 
(AM) Nashville as program/operations manag- 
er, 


Fred Flodin, corporate controller, Gilmore 
Broadcasting, Kalamazoo, Mich., elected se- 
nior VP and treasurer; Kathy S. Harris, senior 
data processor/accountant, Gilmore Broad- 
casting, named division — controller, 
KHVN(AM)-KMEZ-FM Fort Worth-Dallas, re- 
cently acquired by Gilmore. 


Marketing 


David M. Ozer, account executive, WZOU(FM) 
Boston, joins Twentieth Century Fox Film 
Corp., New York, as sales executive, East- 
ern division-television syndication. 


Jonathan L. Ozor, special projects manager, 
Turner Cable Network Sales, New York, 
named director, affiliate ad sales 


Pamela F. Cherney, director, corporate cash 


INCREASE THE 
EFFECTIVENESS 
OF YOUR SALES 

STAFF AND 
YOURMANAGERS. 


® A Sales Inprovement Seminar 
at your station conducted by Martin 
Antonelli. 


€ The Sales Training/Sales 
Improvement Package from АМТС. 


€ Send your people (salespeople and 
ers or prospective managers) to 
AMTC in NY for a customized 


€ Effective Broadcast Sales 
Management from АМТС: А 5% hour 
video tape program detailing what a 
sales manager should be doing every day. 


Any of these plans is an investment in 
the future of your station and one that 
will deliver benefits year after year. 
Call for more information. 


х еј 
[ 1. 


20 West 20th Street, New York, New York 10011 
(212) 206-8063 


management, MCA Inc., Universal City, 
Calif., named assistant treasurer. 


Appointments at Lifetime Television: Rose 
Lorenti, senior affiliate sales executive; New 
York, named director, affiliate relations, 
Eastern region; Ruth Katz, VP and advertis- 
ing sales manager, Sky Communications, 
New York, named director, affiliate rela- 
tions; Jan Crowell, affiliate administrative 
sales coordinator, named manager, special 
markets and sales administration. 


Appointments at The Disney Channel: 
Doug Miller, marketing manager, Southeast- 
em region, Atlanta, named regional director, 
Southwestern region, Dallas; Karen Benson- 
Ruben, affiliate marketing representative, 
New York, named manager, Eastern region; 
Shelley Hustler, manager, consumer market- 
ing, Los Angeles, named director, consumer 
marketing; Pam Warren, VP and assistant 
media director, Ogilvy & Mather Advertis- 
ing, Los Angeles, joins Disney Channel 
there as manager, consumer marketing; Ja- 
net Hollander, manager, affiliate training 
programs, Los Angeles, named director, 
training, New York; Michael Smith, affiliate 
marketing coordinator, New York, named 
affiliate marketing representative. 


Appointments at Group W Satellite Commu- 
nications: Lynn Eisenberg, advertising pro- 
motions coordinator, Paragon Cable, New 
York, and Todd Hansley, independent sales 
representative, Architectural Hardware 
Sales, Englewood, Colo., named affiliate 
representatives, Group W, Denver. 


Appointments at Blair Television: Susan 
Cuccinello, marketing services manager, 
Blair, New York, named marketing research 
director; Linda Scutari, assistant manager, 
Blair's NBC blue team, New York, named 
sales manager, Blair's ABC green team; Sta- 
cey Higgs, assistant media planner, Long 
Haymes & Car, Winston-Salem, N.C.- 
based advertising agency, joins Blair Televi- 
sion, Charlotte, N.C., as account executive. 


Pat Symonds, former CSR supervisor and 
cable theft supervisor, Continental Cablevi- 
sion, Kettering, Ohio, joins The Travel 
Channel, Washington, as manager-affiliate 
marketing and sales, Southeastern region. 


David J. Pleger, VP/general sales manager, 
Telerep, New York, Joins Group W Televi- 
sion Sales there as VP/director of operations. 


Jack Swindell, Southern division sales man- 
ager, Peregrine Entertainment, New Orleans, 
joins Four Star International, Chicago, as 
regional manager, Central region. 
ڪڪ‎ 


Programing 


Jeff Wachtel, VP, development, Orion Tele- 
vision, Los Angeles, named senior VP, de- 
velopment, Orion Television. 


Appointments at Lorimar Television, Los 
Angeles: David Zuckerman, manager, come- 
dy series development, named director, com- 
edy series development; Joan Harrison, man- 
ager, network movies and mini-series, 
named director, network movies and mini- 
series; Matthew Pearl, supervisor, network 
movies and mini-series, named manager, 
network movies and mini-series. 


Appointments at Twentieth Century Fox 
Television Syndication: Keven J. Burns, di- 


rector, Boston University film unit, college 
of communications, Boston, named manag- 
er, creative services, television syndication, 
Los Angeles; Victor J. Zimmerman, account 
executive, Southwestern division, Dallas, 
named VP, Southwestern division; Jeff 
Stern, local and regional sales manager, 
KDAR(TV) Dallas, named account executive, 
Southwestern division, Dallas. 

Appointments at Inside Edition, King 
World, New York: Christopher Bien, inde- 
pendent director, joins Inside Edition as di- 
rector; Charles Lachman, managing editor, 7 


.and 10 p.m. newscasts, wNYW(TV) New 


York, named managing editor; Daniel Gold- 
farb, producer, ABC, named senior field pro- 
ducer. 


Jetfery Miller, assistant to VP, creative af- 
fairs, Aaron Spelling Productions Inc., Los 
Angeles, named story editor, television long- 
form development. 


Arthur F. Kane, VP, programs, CBS Interna- 
tional, New York, has resigned to establish 
Excalibur Productions, international televi- 
sion program development company. 


Thomas F. Frank, media supervisor and man- 
ager, syndication, Procter & Gamble, New 
York, joins Orbis Communications there as 
director of programing. 


Carol Kowalski, executive director, Brook- 
line Community Cable, Brookline, Mass., 
joins SportsChannel New England, Woburn, 
Mass., as programing manager. 


Therese Steiner, di- 
rector, national sched- 
uling and systems re- 
lations, 
noncommercial 
WNET(TV) New York, 
named deputy direc- 
tor, production center. 


Richard Richter, pro- 
ducer, ABC News, 
Washington, joins 
noncommercial wETA- 
Tv there as executive 
producer, news and public affairs program- 
ing. 

Jeffrey Mose, host, producer, and writer, 
Maryland Public Television, Owings Mills, 
Md., joins noncommercial wPBT(TV) Miami 
as corporate marketing manager. 


Appointments at WFLA-TV Татра, Fla.: 
Doug Duperrault, program director, named 
director, local programing and community 
relations; Russell H. Myerson, corporate di- 
rector, programing, Media General Broad- 
cast Group, WFLA-TV's parent company, and 
director of programing and operations, 
WIKS(TV) Jacksonville, Fla., named director 
of programing. Myerson will also continue 
corporate responsibilities. 


Steiner 


Melissa E. Tench-Stevens, operations coor- 
dinator, KICU-TV San Jose, Calif., named 
program director. 


Joyce Lueders, business manager, wJKS(TV) 
Jacksonville, Fla., named director of pro- 
graming. 


Appointments at This Evening, Group W 
Productions, Los Angeles-Washington: Billy 
Pittard and Ed Sullivan, Pittard Designs, Los 
Angeles, named graphic designers, Los An- 
geles; Tony Sabatino and William H. Harris, 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
132 


Sabatino Harris, Los Angeles, named set de- 
signers, Los Angeles; Peter Leinhelser and 
Gary Gritfln, theme composers/musical direc- 
tors, Los Angeles, join This Evening in 
same capacity; Melanie Chilek, former execu- 
tive producer, Evening Magazine, KPIX(TV) 
San Francisco, named supervising producer, 
Los Angeles; J. Brian Gadinsky, producer, 
America’s Most Wanted, Michael Linder 
Productions, Washington, named creative 
consultant, Los Angeles; Phyllis Ward & As- 
sociates, independent producers group, will 
act as Washington bureau. Ward has pro- 
duced for 20/20. 


Kenneth Ceizler, producer-director, MTV, 
New York, joins Radio Vision International 
Inc., Los Angeles, as VP, productions. 


Alan Colmes, former air personality, 
WNBC(AM) New York, joins WMCA(AM) there 
as host, Alan Colmes Show. 


Zaline McShan, research and sales adminis- 
trator, WMMR(FM) Philadelphia, joins 
WKSZ(FM) Media, Pa., as research director. 


Brad Hanson, music coordinator, WMMS(FM) 
Cleveland, named music director. 


Appointments at KEBC(FM) Oklahoma City: 
Joe Findlay, production director, named pro- 
gram director; Jim West, air personality, 
named assistant program director and music 
director. 


Joe Ross, program director, wIBG(AM)- 
WSLT(FM) Ocean City, N.J., joins WKJY(FM) 
Hempstead, N. Y., as midday air personality. 


Jeff Harrington, air personality, KDAB(FM) 
Ogden, Utah, named program director. 


Ken Barnett, program director, KKHT(FM) 
Houston, joins WMJJ(FM) Birmingham, Ala.. 
in same capacity. 


Bobby Mitchell, air personality, KKHT(FM) 
Houston, joins wHYLIFM Fort Lauderdale, 
Fla., in same capacity. 


News and Public Affairs 


Mary Lou O’Callaghan, director, news infor- 
mation, NBC News, New York, resigned 
Jan. 13 to pursue other interests. 


Kimberly Montour, executive producer, spe- 
cial events, wNYw(TV) New York, adds du- 
ties of VP and associate news director. 


Appointments at New Jersey Network, Tren- 
ton: Michael Fairhurst, coordinating produc- 
er, named executive producer; Dan Noonan, 
managing editor, news, named executive 
producer, public affairs. 


Sherri Armet, independent producer and di- 
rector and former ABC News producer, New 
York, joins Fox Broadcasting Company there 
as special events producer. 


Appointments at WNEV-Tv Boston: Amalia 
Barreda, general assignment reporter, named 
weekend news co-anchor; Tom Chisholm, 
weekday morning and noon meteorologist, 
named weekend meteorologist. 


Stan Stovall, news anchor, WCAU-TV Phila- 
дерма, joins WMAR-TV Baltimore as со-ап- 
chor, 6 p.m. news. 


Ross Becker, investigative reporter, KCBS-TV 
Los Angeles, named co-anchor, Sunday 
broadcasts. 


Rick D'Amico, weathercaster, and Linda Wil- 
liams, anchor, KTSP-Tv Phoenix. named an- 
chors, Newscenter 10 Daybreak 


Appointments at KVBC(TV) Las Vegas: Dan 
Monson, weekend anchor/reporter, KOAA-TV 
Pueblo, Colo., named reporter; Steve Eager, 
anchor, KYMA(TV) Yuma, Ariz., named re- 
porter; Sue Tripathi, weekend anchor/re- 
porter, WWAY(TV) Wilmington, N.C., named 
general assignment reporter; Darwin Morgan, 
reporter, named assignment editor. 


Clare Casademont, anchor/reporter, 
wTvpiTv) Durham, N.C., joins KHOU-TV 
Houston as weekend co-anchor. 


Susan Hirasuna, weekend anchor and report- 
er, KJEO(TV) Fresno, Calif., joins КСКА-ТУ 
Sacramento as weekend anchor and general 
news reporter. 


Jack Jones Jr., reporter/photographer, KCRG- 
Tv Cedar Rapids, Iowa, joins WLUM-TV 
Green Bay, Wis., as feature reporter. 


Scott Gurvey, correspondent and Chicago 
bureau chief, The Nightly Business Report, 
produced by noncommercial wPBT(TV) Mi- 
ami, named New York bureau chief and cor- 
respondent. Dennis Moore, former financial 
reporter, KCNC(TV) Denver. joins The Night- 
ly Business Report, Washington. as corre- 
spondent. 


Roxane Battle, weekend апсһог/еспега! as- 
signment reporter, KOMU-TV Columbia. Mo.. 
joins wixT(Tv) Jacksonville, Fla., as news 
reporter. 


Allison Hammond, weekend anchor, wKJG- 
TV Fort Wayne, Ind.. joins wDTN(TV) Dayton 
as general assignment reporter. 


Rob Armstrong, CBS News radio anchor. 
New York. named Washington correspon- 
dent. 


Joe Wambach, news director, KZBS(FM) 
Oklahoma City, joins KEBC(FM) there in same 
capacity. 


Technology 


J. Lawrence Dunham, executive VP and gen- 
eral manager, VideoCipher division, General 
Instrument Corp., New York. named presi- 
dent, VideoCipher division. 


Harry Owen, director, engineering, wUSA(TV) 
Washington, announced his retirement effec- 
tive June 1989. Owen will remain with sta- 
tion on consulting basis. 


Appointments at Alpha Wire Corp., Eliza- 
beth, N.J.: Grant McLennan, VP, marketing, 
Grow Group, Springhouse, Pa.-based manu- 
facturer of professional and household clean- 
ing products, named VP, marketing, Edward 
H. Gowett, VP and officer. Houston Wire and 
Cable Co., Los Angeles, named VP, sales; 
Larry G. Myers, corporate VP, sales, named 
corporate VP, national accounts. 


Bruce F. McKinnon, VP and general manag- 
er, Warner Cable Communications, Med- 
ford, Mass., joins Wireless Cable of New 
York. subsidiary of Microband Companies 
Inc., New York, as VP and general manager. 


Michael T. Dowling, commercial officer, high 
technology and defense sectors, Canadian 
Consulate General, Atlanta, joins Lindsay 


Speciality Products Limited, manufacturer of 
XATC antennas and broadband distribution 
electronics. Ontario, Canada. as sales man- 
ager-Eastern USA, Atlanta. 


Promotion and PR 


Janson Boxberger 


Appointments at NBC Media Relations, Los 
Angcles: Carol Shapiro Janson, free-lance 
publicist. and Cathryn Boxberger, director. 
communications, American Film Institute. 
Los Angeles. named media representatives, 
special programs. 


Appointments at WLS(TV) Chicago: Fran 
Preston, manager, press information and 
public relations. named director, creative ser- 
vices; Karen Yellen Dillon, assistant director, 
creative services, named promotion director; 
Chris Chavarria, manager. on-air promotion, 
named promotion manager: Mowani Carter, 
assistant manager, public relations. named 
senior publicist. 


Annette Gibbs, project director, North Caro- 
lina department of cultural resources. historic 
sites section, Raleigh, joins wPTF-Tv there as 
public affairs director. 


Paul Sherno, senior  writer/producer, 
WTTG(TV) Washington, joins WESH(TV) Day- 
tona Beach, Fla., as marketing and promo- 
tion director. 


Jeff Sapan, account executive, Pamela Gid- 
don company, public relations firm, New 
York, joins WXRK(FM) there as assistant pro- 
motion director. 


Michelle S. Bennett, director of develop- 
ment, noncommercial WTEB(FM) New Bern, 
N.C., joins noncommercial WVTF(FM) Roa- 
noke, Va., as director, public information. 


Lynda Dolci, promotions producer, WINK-TV 
Fort Myers, Fla., joins WAXY(FM) Fort Lau- 
derdale, Fla., as director, promotions. 


Sharyn Mallamad Sutton, senior VP, Porter/ 
Novelli public relations firm, Washington, 
named executive VP. 


Allied Fields 


Tom Bier, news director, wISC-TV Madison, 
Wis., named chairman-elect, Radio Televi- 
sion News Directors Association. Bier will 
oversee 1989 convention in Kansas City. 
Blair will then assume role of chairman of 
board until September 1989. 


Robert W. Moore, program manager, 
WwLTV(TV) Miami, joins NATPE Internation- 
al, Los Angeles, as director of research; Re- 
gina Cleveland, office manager, named sys- 
tem administrator. 


Abiah A. "Bob" Church, former VP, general 
counsel and secretary, Storer Communica- 
tions Inc., Miami, joins Walter, Haverfield, 
Buescher & Chockley, communications law 
firm there, as counsel. 


Francis Bergan, wife of ventriloquist Edgar 


And now for something completely different. The third New York World Television 
Festival will include a retrospective celebrating the twentieth anniversary of the British 
comedy group Monty Python (above, center, Michael Palin with, l-r, Eric Idle, Terry Jones, 
Graham Chapman and John Cleese). The festival, presented by the Museum of Broac- 
casting, opens tomorrow, January 17, with the American premiere of Dangerous Loves, a 


Six-part series based on the stories of Gabriel Garcia Marquez, and will also include 
screenings of award-winning television productions from overseas. 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
133 


Bergan, and Marvin Dickman, tax partner. 
Arthur Andersen and Company, Chicago, 
elected to board of directors, Museum of 
Broadcast Communications at River City, 
Chicago. 


Gordon Mason, exec- 
utive director, South- 
em California Broad- 
casters Association 
Inc., Hollywood, 
elected president. 


Jay Shanker, solo 
practitioner. Law Of- 
fices of Jay Shanker, 
Los Angeles. joins 
Radio Vision Interna- 
tional Inc. there as se- 
nior VP and general 


~ 


63; 


чч 


Mason 
counsel. 


Tara Scopelliti, convention manager. Nation- 
al Apartment Association. Washington, joins 
American Advertising Federation there as di- 
rector of conference services/assistant to 
president. 


Ellen Shaw Agress, VP. corporate planning 
and business development, NBC, New York, 
named VP, legal policy and planning. 


Deaths 


ba Patricia С. (Patti) Wa- 
f silewski, 61, wife of 
former National Asso- 
ciation of Broadcast- 
ers President Vincent 
T. Wasilewski, died 
Jan. 10 of pneumonia 
at Fairfax Hospital, 
Falls Church, Va. 
Wasilewski received 
masters degree in 
speech therapy from 
Wasilewski University of Illinois 
and later taught speech therapy in Arlington 
County Schools. She was also member of 
Congressional Country Club, Washington. 
Survivors include her husband; four daugh- 
ters, Jan, Susan, Cathy and Terese; two sons, 
Thomas and James; her sister, Helen Bane. 
and two grandchildren. Memorial contribu- 
tions may be made to Fairfax Hospital Vol- 
unteers Auxiliary, Fairfax Hospital, 3300 
Gallows Road, Falls Church, Va. 22046. 


Stephanie Meagher, 44. NBC News сопе- 
spondent/writer/producer, died Jan. 1 of 
complications of cancer at her home in New 


WLS SCOOPS THE WORLD 


Dramatic On-the-Scene Transcription of Lakehurst 
—— Dirigible Blast Makes Radio History 


TRAGEDY RECORDED 


Herbert Morrison, 83, radio reporter with w.s(AM) Chicago who was best known for his 
live broadcast of the Hindenburg explosion of May 6, 1937, at Lakehurst, N.J., died Jan. 
10 at Sundale Nursing Home in Morgantown, W.Va. Morrison's broadcast helped WLS(AM) 
scoop everyone else on the story and make radio history (BRoADCasriNG, May 15, 1937). 
Morrison and engineer Charles Nehlsen (pictured above) were at the scene of the 
tragedy after Morrison had suggested to his superiors that the station have an announcer 
at Lakehurst to cover the Hindenburg's landing firsthand. Morrison and Nehisen were 


planning to interview both passengers and friends. Around 6:00 p.m., when the Hinden- 
burg prepared to land, Morrison began describing the event while Nehlsen recorded it. 
Ten minutes later Morrison shouted, "It's burst into flames...This is one of the worst 


Herb Morrison, announcer, and Charles Nehi- 
sen. engineer, show equipment they used to record the Hindenburg dis- 
aster May 6 for WLS at the scene of the dirigible crash. 


BROADCASTING, May 15, 1937 


catastrophies in the world." After regaining his composure Morrison gave his account of 
the disaster and interviewed both survivors and witnesses of the disaster. In between his 
broadcasts Morrison ran out to the field and helped assist the burned passengers and 
crew, including the first survivor, Phillip Mangone. Throughout the disaster engineer 
Nehlsen stuck to his post; the explosions can be heard ciearly on his recording of the 
broadcast. Morrison went on to become the first news director at wrAE-Tv Pittsburgh in 
1958 and later taught at West Virginia University, Morgantown. He is survived by his wife, 


Mary Jane. 


York. Meagher began her broadcast news 
career in 1968 with KYW-TV Philadelphia as 
researcher. She later joined wBz-Tv Boston 
as executive producer, investigative staff. п 
1979 she joined NBC News as producer of 
Weekend. Meagher won Peabody Award for 
her work on educational children's program 
Call it Macaroni. Meagher is survived by 
her brother, W. Bourke, of Humble, Tex. 


Donald Voorhees, 85, conductor and musical 
director, Bell Telephone Hour, musical pro- 
gram, died of pneumonia, Jan. 10, at Tomlin 
Memorial Hospital in Cape May Court 
House, N.J. NBC ran Voorhees's show 


INDEX TO ADVERTISERS: Accuracy in Media 22 О All American Television 67 о Antonelli Media 
Training Center 131 о Apollo Theatre Productions 81 о Blackburn & Co., Inc. 112 n Frank Boyle & Co 
117 n Broadcast Investment Analysts 114. 119 о Buena Vista Television 15, 16-17 о Business Radio 
Network 88 о Chapman Associates 118 O Classified Ads 123-130 O Claster Television, Inc. 40-41 о 
Communications Equity Associates 115 a Data Express 14 O Four Star 35, 36-37 O Fries Distribution Co. 
Cover 4 О Group W Productions 6, Cover 3 о СТС Marketing 75. 77 о Hubbard Broadcasting Front 
Cover O Кай & Co., inc. 113 O Katz American Television 71 O King World 8-9, 23, 24-25 о LBS 
Communications, Inc. 18A-18F о Lorimar Syndication 12-13 O Lutheran Laymen's League 70, 78 я MCA 
TV 69 a Media Venture Partners 111 © Morgan Stanley & Co.. Inc. 85 a МАМ Radio 86 a Multimedia 
Entertainment 55, 56-57 о Orbis Communications 26A-26E O Jim Owens Entertainment, Inc. 73 O 
Paramount Second Cover/3 O Professional Cards 121 © ProgramLink 79 о Radio-Television News 
Directors Assn. 20 а Select Media Communications 63, 64-65 O Services Directory 120 O Sillerman- 
Magee 93. 95, 97, 99, 101 O Howard E. Stark 34 a D.L. Taffner/Ltd. 59, 61 a Talkline Radio Network 87 a 
TeleVentures 11, 39 о Edwin Tornberg & Co., Inc. 116 о Tribune Entertainment 28-29, 42 о Dale Tucker 
Broadcast Services 89 O Turner Program Services 31, 32-33 о UniWorld Entertainment 83 0 USIA 91 O 
Vestron Television 51, 52-53 O World Events/Calico 21 à WWOR-TV 4-5 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
134 


weekly, first on radio from 1940 to 1959 and 
then television from 1959 to 1968. Voor- 
hees's show provided listeners with wide va- 
riety of music including classical, jazz and 
popular music. Survivors include his wife, 
Мапи. опе daughter. one son, two stepsons. 
one stepdaughter and one grandson. 


Curt Marsh, 82. radio personality, died of 
heart seizure following surgery at Mercy 
Hospital in Champaign. Ill. Marsh began his 
carcer in 1921 as market reporter for 
WDZ(AM), then in Tuscola, lll. Marsh re- 
mained with station throughout his career. 
When wDZ(AM) added entertainment to its 
schedule. Marsh started announcing live mu- 
sic programs, corn picking contests and area 
sports events. Last March Marsh was hon- 
ored by wDZ(AM) (now in Decatur. Ш.) for 
his contributions to broadcasting. Marsh is 
survived by his wife, Lois. and one son. 


Walter Carlson, 70, radio personality, died of 
cancer Dec. 27, 1988, at his home in Saw- 
yer, Mich. Carlson worked for Moody Bible 
Institute of Chicago's noncommercial wMBI- 
АМ-ЕМ for 41 years as announcer. newscaster 
and radio actor. Carlson is survived by his 
wife, Norma; five daughters; one son, and 
fifteen grandchildren. 


L 


P 


Sony's Richard Wheeler: 
Life on the leading edge 


‘Sony is on the edge of a very important 
development in this industry. It's called 
‘digital.’ ' Preparing the industry for that 
change is one of the highest priorities for 
Sony Communications Products Company 
President Richard Wheeler. 

The company already has a distinguished 
history in the digital format. It was the first 
to sell digital audio equipment in the early 
1980's, and a few years later was the first to 
sell component digital (D-1) videotape re- 
corders. At last year's National Association 
of Broadcasters convention, Sony joined 
Ampex Corp, in marketing the composite 
digital format (D-2). In June 1988, it was 
the first to begin D-2 VTR deliveries, and 
has since installed over 300 units world- 
wide. 

“As we sit here today, there are digital 
products in the analog domain," Wheeler 
says. But someday ‘‘in the not-so-distant 
future," he foresees analog being replaced 
entirely. ‘‘In fact, someday it will probably 
be transmitted to the home in digital and 
received in a digital format.” 

But so far, digital technology has not made 
many inroads into the broadcast station stu- 
dio. The vast majority of D-2 machines have 
been sent to post-production studios. ''Post- 
production facilities are very competitive and 
they generally want the latest equipment,” 
asserts Wheeler. '*It was natural for the pro- 
duction and post-production communities to 
become part of the D-1 and D-2 recording 
formats initially.'' 

Wheeler believes that 1989 will be the 
first big year of D-2 sales to TV stations. 
The route digital will take to those stations’ 
studios will be through multicart library 
Systems, Wheeler says. So far, he says, 
about half of the LMS's (Sony's Library 
Management Systems) sold have been D-2 
versions, with the other half built for Beta- 
cam SP VTR's. 

Wheeler would like to instill a concept of 
teamwork within the Communications Prod- 
ucts Co. ''I believe that was happening in the 
past, but we're encouraging it even more.” 
'The part of his job that he finds most enjoy- 
able, and that takes up most of his time, is 
working with people. “1 seem to get the most 
satisfaction out of being able to sit down and 
work through a problem with an individual 
by offering a different idea." 

Wheeler's predecessor, William Connolly, 
once said that the Communications Products 
Co. presidency required 50 to 60 of his hours 
a week. The job is still that demanding, 
Wheeler says. ‘I feel that, because 1 am the 
kind of person who has an ‘open-door’ policy 
and will help individuals who want to seek 
me out during the course of the day, 1 be- 
come somewhat inefficient." 

He likes to get away from that routine, 
for a week or so every few months, to a 
vacation home in Florida. He enjoys going 


RICHARD KENNETH WHEELER, president, Sony 
Communications Products Co., Teaneck, N.J.; 
b. Sept. 28, 1944, Syracuse, N.Y.: U.S. 

Navy, 1962-66; quality control technician, 
visual communications products 

department, General Electric, Syracuse, 
N.Y.,1966-70; field sales executive, 
closed-circuit TV equipment, GE, Los 
Angeles, 1970-72; sales executive, mobile 
radio communications division, GE, Los 
Angeles, 1972-73; sales representative, 
Microtime, Atlanta, 1974; district sales 
manager and later regional manager, 

video products division, Sony Corp., Atlanta, 
1974-81; national service manager, video 
products division, Sony, Park Ridge, N.J., 
1981-82; VP, national service, 1982-84; 

senior VP, Sony Service Co. (consumer 
products division), 1984-86; senior vice 
president, video communication products 
division, 1986-87; senior vice president, 

Sony Communications Products Co., 1986-88; 
present position since May 1988; married 
Marsha Meager, June 5, 1964; children— 
James, 23; Jeffrey, 20. 

CS rs = Eoi 


boating there ‘and also getting away from 
the office with my wife. When I’m around 
the office or in the area, I’m very close to 
phones and very close to my briefcase." 
When out on the water, he can escape that. 

Wheeler had no college background when 
he began selling broadcast equipment for 
General Electric in Syracuse, N.Y., after 
leaving the Navy as a petty officer, second 
class. He sold broadcast and closed-circuit 
equipment for GE until 1972, when the TV 
divisions were sold to Gates Radio. Wheeler 
was transferred to GE's mobile radio commu- 
nication division. "I didn't like that bu- 
siness...| enjoyed the excitement and creativ- 
ity [in television sales]," he says. GE's 
mobile radio sales were mainly government 
contracts, which required little sales ability. 
**] just felt that it was a very boring, numbers 
kind of a business." 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 
135 


He left GE shortly thereafter, and by the 
summer of 1974 joined Sony as district 
sales manager in Atlanta. He rose through 
Sony's ranks, eventually being transferred 
to the company's Park Ridge, N.J., head- 
quarters in 1981, and being named vice 
president in 1982 and senior vice president 
in 1984. 

But during the early 1980's, his career 
took an unexpected turn. He was moved 
from a sales concentration to the service 
department, part of the time in consumer 
equipment service. ''I didn't feel that was 
part of my career path...I looked at it as 
kind of unchallenging.'' Today he believes 
that during those years, Sony was grooming 
him for bigger things. ‘It was explained 
that way, but sometimes you don't listen or 
believe what they're saying. Frankly, it was 
excellent training." 

In 1987, when the communications prod- 
ucts company was formed to handle sales of 
Sony broadcast and professional video and 
audio products, Wheeler was chosen as sec- 
ond in command to its first president, Wil- 
liam Connolly. He was promoted to the 
presidency when Connolly became presi- 
dent of the new Sony Advanced Systems 
division, specializing in HDTV and other 
new technologies for TV production. The 
creation of the Communications Products 
Co. was an important move, Wheeler says, 
because ‘‘it is very difficult for us to deter- 
mine where one group starts and where 
another group stops. From our customers’ 
point of view, they purchase products from 
al of our groups." The system now 
**makes it easy for the customer to do busi- 
ness with us," he says. 

The organization has recorded *‘an excel- 
lent year’’ in both American and worldwide 
sales in 1988, Wheeler says. Along with 
the usual uptum in broadcast equipment 
sales that E ODE an election/Olym- 
pics year, the Communications Products 
Co. was aided by its ability to catch up on a 
backlog of ordered Betacam SP equipment. 
All broadcast video equipment showed 
growth well above expectations, as did pro- 
fessional audio. The one slow mover was 
professional video, consisting of Sony's U- 
matic recorders, players and editor, which 
merely matched expectations. Over all, 
Wheeler expects growth in 1989 to be more 
moderate and competition with other com- 
panies tougher. 

Wheeler says that he has heard some of 
the criticisms of Japanese companies and 
their dominance of the U.S. broadcast 
equipment market. American broadcasters 
are said not to have enough input into the 
development of equipment, and prices are 
said to be artificially high. Wheeler re- 
sponds that Sony's prices are comparable to 
those of domestic manufacturers where 
head-to-head competition exists, and that 
the company fulfills a vital role to broad- 
casters because several items Sony sells are 
not produced domestically. 


InaBriet 


ABC will add two new series to its lineup later this month when it 
premieres A Man Called Hawk on Jan. 28, and Studio 5B on Jan. 
29. A Man Called Hawk stars Avery Brooks, who reprises his role 
from ABC series Spenser: For Hire. Show will air Saturday, 9-10 
p.m. Studio 5B follows cast and crew of fictional network morn- 
ing show. Starring in series are Kerrie Keane, Wendy Crewson 
and Kim Myers. Series is product of Lorimar Telepictures and 
will ай on Sunday at 8-9 p.m 

О 


Three Miami stations have had petitions to deny filed against them 
Бу. National Hispanic Media Coalition and Spanish American 
League Against Discrimination. Filings are result of survey, con- 
ducted by petitioners, of seven Miami FM stations. Petitions 
ask FCC to conduct Bilingual inquiry, referring to 1978 case 
which cites "evidence of substantial statistical dispanity...r- 
aises questions as to whether station's poor EEO performance 
owes to inadvertence, or to intentional discrimination." Sta- 
tions filed against: WLYF(FM), WPOW(FM) and WTMIFM) 
[n 


Rogers Broadcasting Ltd. (RBL) has agreed to buy group of 11 
Canadian radio stations from Selkirk Communications Ltd., Юг 
about $20 million ($24.5 million Canadian). Transaction is sub- 
ject to approval by Canadian Radio-Televison and Telecom- 
munications Commission. 

О 


Senior management of Media General Broadcast Services (MGBS) 
has completed purchase of operation's media buying division from 
parent company, Media General, it was announced last Thurs- 
day (Jan. 12). New York-based company has been renamed 
Horizon Media. Purchase price was not disclosed, but Donald 
Miller, chairman/CEO of Horizon, said that Media General was 
"facilitating the financing'' of the management buyout by mak- 
ing Horizon the agent for Media General's receivables, which 
Horizon did not purchase. 
D 


Barbara Cohen, executive producer, NBC's Meet the Press, joins 
CBS News as vice president, Washington bureau chief. Cohen 
replaces Joe Peyronnin who was re- A 
cently promoted VP, assistant to 
president, New York. Cohen had 
been with NBC since 1983, begin- 
ning as manager of political cover- 
age before joining Meet the Press in 
1985. Before joining NBC she was 
news director at National Public 
Radio in Washington. Cohen is first 
woman to hold bureau chief posi- 
tion for major network in Washing- 
ton. Sid Feders, executive producer of NBC's Sunday Today 
adds duties of executive producer at Meet the Press. 
D 


At teast 15 congressmen were heading for Los Angeles late last 
week to participate in day-long “seminar” sponsored by National 
Cable Television Association Saturday (Jan. 14) on trends and 
future of television and to attend ACE Awards ceremonies and 
related festivities on Sunday. NCTA would not provide details 
of congressional junket, but it is presumed that it picked up tab 
for lawmakers' weekend of business and pleasure and paid 
them honoraria (going rate is $1,500 for representatives; $2,000 
for senators). Industry source said following were expected to 
be on hand: Senator James Exon (D-Neb.); Joe Barton (R-Tex.), 
Ralph Hall (D-Tex), Mickey Leland (D-Tex.), Norman Lent (R- 
N.Y), Thomas Luken (D-Ohio) Carlos Moorhead (R-Calif.), 
Howard Nielson (R-Utah), Michael Oxley (R-Ohio), Bill Richard- 
son (D-N.M.), Jim Bates (D-Cahf), Michael Bilirakis (R-Fla.), 
Cardiss Collins (D-Ill.), Don Schaeffer (R-Colo.) and Bob Whitta- 
ker (R-Kansas). NCTA put together elaborate seminar at Centu- 
ry Plaza hotel for congressmen, board members and other cable 
executives expected to attend. Various congressional and in- 
dustry sources provided program. It was to feature panels on 
industry trends (John Goddard, Viacom Cable; Robert Erburu, 
Times Mirror, and Charles Dolan, Cablevision) and new technol- 


ogies (Frank Drendel, General Instrument; Richard Green, Ca- 
ble Labs; James Chiddix, American Television and Communi- 
cations, and John Malone, Tele-Communications Inc.) Turner 
Broadcasting System's Robert Wussler was set to make open- 
ing remarks. ABC News commentator Jeff Greenfield was to 
lead audience-participation discusssion to wrap up program 


o 


Bruce Gelb, vice chairman of Bristol-Myers Co., is regarded by 
those in position to know as President-elect George Bush's 
choice to suceed Charles Z. Wick as director of U.S. Information 
Agency. Gelb's association with Bush goes way back; they 
were classmates at Andover and Yale, and he was principal 
fundraiser for Vice President in New York. 


u 


Board of Cable Television Laboratories voted via telephone last 
week to locate its headquarters in Denver-Boulder area and “ma- 
jor satellite office” in Boston area. With areas selected, said 
Cable Labs President Richard Green, he can not begin in 
earnest to find office space and, more important, hire engi- 
neers. When fully staffed in two years, headquarters will have 
around 15, he said. 
У 

Lynn Е. Loring, executive VP, televison MGM/UA Communica- 
tions Co., Hollywood, has been named president, television 
division. Loring has been with MGM/UA since 1985 and helped 
in production of several shows including thirtysomething and In 
the Heat of the Night. Loring started her career in acting, hor 
television credits include police drama, The F.B.I. and situation 
comedy, Fair Exchange. Loring's career shifted to production in 
1978 when she developed and produced The Best Little Girl in 
the World for CBS. Loring joined MGM/UA after five years as VP, 
development and talent, Ocean Pictures and Television, Aaron 
Spelling Productions. While at Spelling, Loring developed suc- 
cessful 1982 motion picture release “Мг. Мот.” 


0 


Advanced Television Test Center (АТТС), Alexandria, Va., has 
been granted temporary authorization to use 12.45 ghz frequency 
in Washington area to test propagation of high-definition test sig- 
nals. ATTC will test augmentation signals that would be re- 
ceived simultaneously with channel in conventional TV bands 
and broadband, 9 mhz signals. Test station will operate under 
call letters KA2XYE. Authorization expires Oct. 19. ATTC has 
been performing similar propagation test over UHF ch. 58 in 
Washington since early last month. 

n 
Commerce Secretary C. William Verity has made another effort to 
ease congressional concerns that restructuring of Commerce De- 
partment will not result in downgrading of department's role in 
telecommunications policy making. Verity last week wrote to 
Representative John Dingell (D-Mich.), chairman of House En- 
ergy and Commerce Committee, to report that he has directed 
new Under Secretary authorized by Congress to be responsible 
for Telecommunications and Technology Administration. As 
passed by Congress, enabling legislation referred only to Tech- 
nology Administration. And Verity, in his letter, recommended 
that Congress approve amendment "to reflect this change, 
which would more accurately reflect the new organizational 
structure." 

D 
Following presentation to Television Operators Caucus (TOC) 
last week by Bill Moll, president of Television Bureau of Adver- 
tising (TVB), TOC decided to extend its current TVB contracts 
from one-year to three-year terms. Ward Huey, chairman of 11- 
member TOC said: "TVB's recent reorganization, including 
leadership changes, greater rep participation, and most impor- 
tantly, a highly successful focused attack plan already accruing 
significant benefits to their stations were the primary reasons 
for this unprecedented decision. 

D 
MTV Networks Inc. last week announced that management 
team of VH-1 will report directly to MTVN President/CEO Tom 
Freston, as do MTV and Nickelodeon. Coming out of MTV's 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 


136 


shadow stems from service's growth—doubling advertising 
revenue in 1988 (total 1987 revenue was $5 million) and 21% 
increase in subscribers to 31 million by year's end. 


im] 


Matthew Gerson, general counsel to Senator Patrick Leahy (D- 
Vt.) on Senate Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on tech- 


nology and law, joins Motion Picture Association of America as 
assistant vice president for congressional affairs. Gerson will 
report to Kathy Zebrowski, VP, congressional affairs and special 
counsel. During his four yeats on Senate Judiciary Committee 
staff, Gerson specialized in copyright communications and First 


Amendment issues. 


Busy times in the station trading business 


Among a flurry of station sales at the end of last week: 


S Taking advantage of FCC's relaxation of one-to-a-market rules 
(BROADCASTING, Dec. 19, 1988), wNEv-TV Boston owner New En- 
gland Television Corp. has purchased WHDH(AM) Boston, pending 
FCC approval, for $14 million. Second major sale within two 
months for seller, Sconnix Broadcasting Corp. of Vienna, Va., 
which sold waos(FM) Brookline, Mass. (Boston), for $19.3 million 
(BROADCASTING, Nov. 7, 1988). New England Television Corp., 
whose only broadcasting property is CBS affiliate wNEv-Tv, look- 
ing to make additional acquisitions in future, according to David 
С Mugar, company chairman/CEO. He said purchase would 
cut operating costs for both properties and allow for more 
investment in programing. He also cited several competitors in 
market with multimedia interests. Sconnix part owner Theodore 
E. Nixon last week described his company as "actively in the 
acquisition mode." Sconnix properties include: WBMD(AM)- 
WQSR(FM) Baltimore; WMRZ(AM) Moline, and WLLR(FM) East Moline. 
both Illinois; WIBC(AM)-WKLR(FM) Indianapolis; KFKF-AM-FM Kansas 
City, Kan.; WLNH-AM-FM Laconia, N.H.; WPTX(AM) and WMDM(FM) 
Lexington Park, both Maryland; имхлем) Pompano Beach, Fla. 
WHDH is on 850 khz with 50 kw fulltime. 
п 


The following three transactions are part of three-party ех- 
change of assets whereby Wilks-Schwartz Broadcasting agreed 
to purchase KKNG(FM) Oklahoma City from NewCity Communica- 
tions and wVEZ-AM-FM Louisville, Ky., from The Griffin Group. 
David Roth, as designee for Wilks-Scwartz, will purchase 
KKNG(AM) and WvEZ-AM-FM and exchange them Юг WEEX(AM) 
мосом) Easton, Pa., at closing. 

ш Wilks-Schwartz Broadcasting agreed to sell WEEX(AM)- 
wQoO(FM) Easton, Pa. (Allentown), to David Roth for $10.1 mil- 
lion. Seller is principally owned by Donald Wilks and Michael 
Schwartz. It also owns WHYN(AM)-WHFM(FM) Springfield, Mass.; 
WLKW-FM Providence, R.I; WFBLAM)-.WKFM(FM) Syracuse, N.Y., and 
WMLO-FM Sarasota, Fla. Buyer is principal owner of Roth Commu- 
nications. He also owns WGHY-AM-FM Savannah, Ga.; WIRA(AM)- 
WOvV(FM) Fort Pierce, Fla.; WKBF(AM)-WPXR(FM) Rock Island, Ш.; 
WKPE-AM-FM Orleans, Mass., and KCBN(AM-KRNO(FM) Reno. WEXX 
is fulltimer on 1230 khz with 1 kw. Wooo operates on 99.9 mhz 
with 50 kw and antenna 450 feet above average terrain. Broker: 
Americom Radio Brokers. 

ш The Griffin Group agreed to sell WVEZ-AM-FM Louisville, Ky., 
to Donald Wilks and Michael Schwartz for $6.5 million. Seller is 
New York-based group of two AM's and three FM's principally 
owned by Merv Griffin and headed by Michael Nigris. Buyers 
are principals of Wilks-Schwartz Broadcasting. It also owns 
WHYN(AM)-WHFM(FM) Springfield, Mass.; WLKW-FM Providence, R.L; 
WFBL(AM)-WKFM(FM) Syracuse, N.Y., and WMLO-FM Sarasota, Fla. 
Broker: Blackburn & Co. 

8 Swanson Broadcasting Inc. agreed to sell KKNG(FM) Oklaho- 
ma City to Donaid Wilks and Michael Schwarts for $3.5 million. 
Seller is subsidiary of NewCity Broadcasting Inc., headed by 
Dick Ferguson. president. It is Bridgeport, Conn.-based group of 
six AM's and nine FM's. KkNa operates on 92.5 mhz with 98 kw 
and antenna 984 feet above average terrain. 

c 


ш Nemesis Communications Inc. has purchased Unicom Broad- 


casting Group's radio group, pending FCC approval, for $6 
million plus $500,000 non-compete agreement. Properties in- 
clude КЕУМЕМ) Las Vegas; KEYF-FM Cheney, KEYF(AM) Dishman 
and KEYW(FM) Pasco, all Washington. Denver, Colo.-based Nem- 
esis Communications is headed by former Eastman Radio Rep 
executive Jerry Shubert, chairman/CEO, and partner Don N. 
Nelson, president/COO. Broker in deal is Montcalm Corp. of 


Seattle. 
Га) 


# Јасог Broadcasting of Georgia Inc. agreed to sell WGST(AM) 
Atlanta to Focus on the Family, a California Corp. for $2.3 
million. Seller is subsidiary of Jacor Communications Inc., Cin- 
cinnati-based, publicly traded company headed by Terry Ja- 
cobs. It also owns WLW(AM)WEBN(FM) Cincinnati; WMJI(FM) Cleve- 
land; WPCH(FM) Atlanta; KOA(AM)-KOAQ(FM) Denver; WOIK-AM-FM 
Jacksonville, and WFLA(AMMWFLZ(FM) Tampa, both Florida; 
WMYU(FM) Knoxville, and WYHY(FM) Nashville, both Tennessee. 
Jacor purchased wPBD(AM) Atlanta ("Changing Hands,” Oct. 17, 
1988) subject to FCC approval and divestiture of wGSTIAM). 
Jacor plans to maintain the wGsT call sign after transaction is 
completed. Buyer is Pomona, Calif.-based company headed by 
president and founder, Dr. James Dobson. It distributes Chris- 
tian programing to 1,312 radio stations in the U.S. It has no 
other broadcast interests. WGST is fulltimer ог 920 khz with 5 
kw-D and 1 kw-N. Broker: Blackburn & Со. 
[s] 


S Mid-Atlantic Network Inc. agreed to sell WHYL-AM-FM Carlisle, 
Pa. to Zeve Broadcasting Co. for $1.7 million. Seiler is owned by 
brothers John, David and Howard Lewis. It also owns WINC-AM- 
FM Winchester, Va., and wFVA-AM-FM Fredericksburg, both Vir- 
ginia. It just purchased WKCY-AM-FM Harrisonburg, Va. ("Chang- 
ing Hands,” Jan. 9) pending FCC approval. Buyer is owned Бу 
Н. Lincoln Zeve, former general manager оѓ WDOS(AM) Oneonta, 
МУ. It has no other broadcast interests. И/нуг is daytimer оп 
960 khz with 5 kw. WHYL-FM is on 102.3 mhz with 3 kw and 
antenna 328 feet above average terrain. Broker: Blackburn & Co. 

п 
ш Seven Hilis Television Co. agreed to sell krvw-TV Phoenix to 
Univision Station Group Inc. for undisclosed amount. Seller is 
principally owned by R. Anseimo, Emilio Nicolas and Daniel D. 
Villanueva. Buyer is owned by Halimark Card Co., which also 
owns Univision Inc., Spanish language TV network. Station 
Group is headed by Bill Grimes. It is New York-based group of 
eight TV's and six LPTV's. Purchase includes LPTV ch. 58 in 
Tucson a 
ш Negotiations are underway for wsMv(Tv) Nashville. Station 
belongs to Gillette Group Inc., with Cooke Inlet looking to buy 
for approximately $146 million. Seller is owned by George Gil- 
lett. Buyer is consortium of Alaskan natives, headed by George 
Christy, president. WsMv is NBC affiliate on ch. 4, with 100 kw 
visual, 10 kw aural and antenna 1,410 feet. 

о 


и Television Station Partners has pulled four stations from mar- 
ket. Wroc-Tv Rochester, N.Y., wEYrTV Flint, Mich., WRDW-TV 
Augusta, Ga., and wrov-Tv Steubenville, Ohio, had been ex- 
pected to fetch as much as $150 million. but principals of 
limited partnership, I. Martin Pompadur and Ralph Becker, said 
offers for group ‘Че short of our expectations.” 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 


137 


COMMITTED TO THE FIRST AMENDMENT & THE FIFTH ESTATE 


F'ditorialsg 


Nonnegotiable 


Once was, the three major networks exercised much of the 
leadership in the Fifth Estate, along with a number of individual 
broadcasters—the Ward Quaals, the Leonard Reinschs, the Jack 
Harrises, the Stanley Hubbards—who were concerned that their 
industry grew up straight and true, and whose vision went 
beyond the next rating book or quarterly report. Now it falls to 
the National Association of Broadcasters to stand tall for the 
broadcast media, and to put principle before the bottom line. If 
that charge isn't on the agenda of the NAB's joint board in 
Scottsdale this weck, it should be. 

Particularly in relation to the fairness doctrine, which the 
Congress means to reimpose on a now supine broadcast indus- 
try. Readers of this page will need little review on this subject: 
how the FCC first denied to broadcasters the right to editorial- 
ize, then said they could but only if they were fair (in the eyes of 
the FCC), how then ensued some four decades of chilled First 
Amendment exercise, how Congress tried to codify fairness, 
how President Reagan vetoed the fairness bill, how the FCC 
then held fairness unconstitutional. And how John Dingell and 
Fritz Hollings, enraged, vowed retribution: no must carry, no 
license renewal, no anything of value to the industry until 
fairness is back on the books—and back on the backs of broad- 
casters. 

It may well be that the fight over fairness cannot be won in 
Congress—that the hope for ultimate vindication lies with the 
courts, Nevertheless, the battle must be taken to the Hill with 
vigor and conviction—the latter quality conspicuously missing 
from the NAB's approach so far, which at one point had the 
industry on the wrong side of this issue, astonishingly opposing 
the President's veto. Every member of Congress must know 
what the industry believes is at stake here: the heart of its First 
Amendment entitlement. It must know that the industry stands 
not only on principle but, on this issue, together. 

This generation of broadcasters must not bargain away what 
its predecessors have fought so long to establish: that the Fifth 
Estate is now and forever a First Amendment player. On that 
rides all. 


Bad to worse 


The FCC filed a brief in the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washing- 
ton last week maintaining that Congress's 24-hour ban on the 
broadcast of “‘indecency’’ does not violate the First Amend- 
ment. ‘‘We will put forward the best argument for why it is 
constitutional and let the courts decide," FCC General Counsel 
Diane Killory said three weeks ago in anticipation of the brief. 
Given that Congress's actions were indefensible, the commis- 
sion did the best that it could, which is to say it failed. 
In arguing that the Congress has the authority to ''protect 
children'' by prohibiting the broadcast of ‘‘indecent’’ material, 
the FCC explains that Congress has found that *'as a practical 
matter, there is no time when children are not in the broadcast 
audience, and accordingly, there is no time to which indecent 
broadcasts can be channeled as a means of avoiding exposure to 
children." If that is the case, and “‘indecent’’ material can no 
longer be effectively channeled, then it should no longer be 
channeled. But it is also the case that, as an appeals court has 
recently made clear, ‘‘broadcast material that is indecent but not 
obscene is protected by the First Amendment." And thus it 
cannot be banned, by Congress or anyone else. Without such 
protection, two unelected government officials would have the 


power to banish from the airwaves whatever they decided was 
unfit for the other 250 million or so. And even if those two had 
the wisdom of Solomon and morals perfectly in tune with the 
times, what of the next two, and the next? 

A single complaint by a single person about a single broad- 
cast in 1975 was the acorn that has grown into this diseased tree; 
its appalling shadow is the absolute censorship of a frighteningly 
vague category labeled ''indecent programing.” The Fifth Es- 
tate has been dragged over Hill and commission, through low 
court and high, to its current status: regulated content and a 
compromised First Amendment. 

If that journey serves any useful purpose, it is to illustrate the 
importance of taking a line early and hard on censorship, whose 
champions attempt to cloak it in righteousness. If the Congress's 
24-hour ban is allowed to stand, it will be the First Amendment 
that is channeled, and broadcasters left with no safe harbor. 


Means and ends 


Detritus from the last Congress continues to rise to the surface. 
Among Representative Al Swift's (D-Wash.) gifts to the fledg- 
ling 101% was a reprise of his Campaign Cost Reduction and 
Reform Act introduced in 1987 and mercifully put to death in 
committee. The new bill would replace the lowest-unit-rate 
ceiling now governing campaign purchases of broadcasting time 
with a flat 30% discount on stations’ ‘‘normal and usual unit 
charge,’ as determined by the FCC. (The bill would also permit 
print ad and postal rate discounts.) 

The legislation’s avowed goal is laudable: to reduce ‘‘the 
possibility for corruption and undue influence" that ‘‘acceler- 
ates with the rising cost of campaigning.’’ Forcing radio and 
television alone among the media to further shoulder the ex- 
pense of campaigning is, however, no more acceptable a solu- 
tion to congressional extravagance now than it was in 1987. The 
bill permits the print media to give advertising discounts to 
candidates if they so choose but demands those discounts from 
the Fifth Estate. It is that basic inequity, and not the number of 
dollars involved, that is the bill’s downfall. 

Swift concedes the issue is “‘controversial.”’ To that end, he 
says: ‘‘Other approaches will be introduced and will receive full 
consideration from the subcommittee.” We hope those ap- 
proaches will distinguish between cutting politicians a break on 
postage and assigning second-class status to an entire medium. 


Drawn for BROADCASTING by Jack Schmidt 
“You'll have to be more specific, Mr. Oakley. How long he 
was employed here and how long he worked here are two 
different things.” 


Broadcasting Jan 16 1989 


138 


е Summers hosts а fast-paced, 
fun-filled game loaded with surprises: cameo 
appearances by TV stars, clips of top shows, 
twists and turns than can affect the fates 
and fortunes of the contestants. 


= ouch Potatoes” is a feast 
ү for all who have munched and crunched 

their way through an evening of television. 
| In short, everyone! 


he questions are all about TV. Pro- 
grams and personalities. Past and present From 
Uncle Miltie, Lucy and Howdy Doody through the 
Cartwrights, the Petries and Mary Richards right 
up to ALF, Roseanne and MN 


| he hip strip for 1989! 


Datributed by Produced by 


GROUP W ry 
PRODUCTIONS |“ 


А WESTINGHOUSE BROADCASTING COMPANY 


PRODCCTICS | 


BROADCASTERS PRODUCING РОК BROADCASTERS 


Couch Potato character © 1988 Robert Armstrong All nghts reserved Used under suthorzation Group W Productions / 3801 Barham Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90068 / 213-850-3800 


in 65% of the ا‎ H 
60 WG U 
LES KTIV CHIC A HOUSTON КИШЕТ. LAUDERD 


Adve uckleberry Finn 


au L < Ja. l DEAOOADDAI 


Te eS. : #1 | à ar M j 
Ө FRIES DISI NY 
L a subs di E - af 
LLYWOOD (213) 466-2266 NEW YORK (212) 593-2 AGO (12751-3483 


© 1989 РИИБи Company. All Riahts Reshrved. 


