The Fifth Estate 


RADIO TELEVISION CABLE SATELLITE 


BroadcastingzNov 23 


Were changing the face of 
Saturday morning television. 


On January 2, Saturday morning will finally grow up. 


It's not kid's stuff. It's "GREAT weather, sports, entertainment, 
WEEKEND live via satellite — 


news, money, fashion, people, 
the program that has every- «4 V, y, P arts and leisure, health and 
thing for active adults to À TA science, and how-to's. 
plan their weekend. Sea- EN А Give America's 
soned reporters bring = A grownups the “GREAT 
your viewers a dyna- WEEKEND" they've 
mic weekly hour of GREAT WEEKE been waiting for! 


«уд For details, call 213/477-2101. 


ctio. ЛУ КЕЕ 


575-10 
x 
к L8/AO0N AIA 996221 aE 


Michael Landon 
and Victor French 


Why did Jim Glassman use 
Americom? 


"We sold our six-station group through 
Americom. They found a potential 
buyer who was willing to pay top dollar 
and had the financial means to do it 
They then worked hard to find me an- 
other group to purchase. They were 
successful, and we recently closed on a 
three-station group acquisition 


Their creativity in structuring sound fi 
nancial deuls and their ability to ex- 
plain why a station has a certain value 
sets them apart. It's a pleasure to work 
with them." 


Jim Glassman 
Community Service Radio, Inc. 


Which selling strategy helps you reach your objectives? 


] Confidential Marketing | 2 Americom Auction | 3 Negotiated Bid 
Minimizes your station's exposure | Involves wide exposure of your Your station's sensi informa- 
by personally pre-qualifying 15 property's availability, financial tion is handied discreetly but 
buyers and selecting the five hot- performance and operating infor- public exposure of its ауа 

test buyers to review with you mation го maximize the pool of is used to increase the pool of 
before re-contacting them with buyers and achieve the highest buyers to produce the highest 
yourstation's details. offer from the auction's most ag- possible offer. 

gressive bidder. 


Americom offers you a choice of selling strategies 
and the ability to get financing for buyers. 


Americom's Financing Services 


Because we work with leading lenders on а daily basis, we can provide you with financing over $3,000,000 by 
structuring a loan package that may include senior debt, mezzanine layers and pure equity 

Refinancing: By reviewing your current debt structure, Americom can help you acrange refinancing if you 
anticipate debt service short falls. Call before your bank eliminates refinancing options. 


AMERICOM 


سإ — 


Radio Station Brokerage & Financing 


1130 Connecticut Avenue, N.W. / Suite 500 Й Washington, DC 20036 / (202) 737-9000 


Vol. 113 No. 21 


Broadcasting с Nov 23 


Operator equity—rage in cable programing... page 40. 


First ‘blue ribbon panel’ on ATV convenes... page 35. 


Commerce Committee adopts TVRO bill...page 42. 


No launch date yet for TNT... page 39. 


MONEY MEN п Cable operators, in effort to 
increase their position in programing, are 
taking equity stakes in programers, who find 
they need operators' distribution to launch. 
Some observers soe dangers in such vertical 
integration. PAGE 35. 


RECORDS SALE O CBS board approves sale of 
CBS Records Group to Sony Corp. for $2 
billion; speculation rises as to what CBS will 
do with cash from sales of CBS assets. PAGE 
39. 


LOOKING AHEAD O Radio group executives 
address what's in store for 1988—from effects 
of October stock market crash to national and 
local spot dollars. PAGE 44 


LAUGHS FOR SALE O TV stations and 
syndicalors examine effects of large number of 
available half-hour situation comedies on future 
sales of genre. PAGE 49. 


SEARCHING FOR RELIABLE REVENUE © 
Corporation for Public Broadcasting Chairman 
Howard Gutin reiterates noncommercial 
broadcasting's need for “adequate, long-term 


VIEW FROM THE TOP © Sumner Redstone won 
battle for Viacom earlier this year. In this "At 
Large" interview with BROADCASTING, Redstone 
and executive he brought on board to run 
company, Frank Biondi, discuss business 
company is in and prospects for each of its 
diverse divisions. PAGE 59. 


WIRELESS CABLE CONNECTION C Microband 
Companies Inc. offers homes without cable in 
outer boroughs of New York and New Jersey 
suburbs six-channel wireless cable service. 
PAGE 71 


LEADING MAN O CBS News Dallas 
correspondent, Harry Smith, is expected to be 
named male co-anchor of network's new 
morning news program, joining Kathleen 
Sullivan when program debuts Nov. 30. PAGE 
77. 


EYE ON THE FUTURE D Ampexs M. Carlos 
Kennedy's steady watch on videotape 
technology trends help shape both Ampex and 
broadcasting industry. PAGE 95. 


SCHEDULE SHUFFLE 0 Following November 
sweeps, commercial broadcast networks 


source of funding." PAGE 56. revamp schedules. PAGE 97. 


Advertising & Marketing 
At Larg 
Business .. 
Cablecastings 
Changing Hands .. 
Closed Circui 
Datebook 


Syndication Marketplace 
Technology -nu 
Where Things Stand.... 


For the Record 
In Brief... 
Information Age 
Journalism... 


Monday Мето... 
On Radio 

Open Mike... 
Programing 


INDEX TO ADVERTISERS: 2 American Railroads, Assn. of 230 Americom 4 0 Ampex 11, 12-132 Blackburn & Co, Inc. 72 Chapman Associates 780 
Classified Ads 83-80 © Communications Equity Associates 75 2 RC. Crisler & Co., Inc. 76 п GE American Communications 19, 20-21 п Group W 
Productions 28-290 Heller Financial 730 MCA TV 47 O Media Venture Partners 710 MGM/UA Telecommunicalions, Inc. 32-33 0 National Education 
Assn, 34 0 New World Television Group Second Ccveri3 = Orion Television Syndication 7, 8-9 2 Professional Cards 81 С Radio Advertising Bureau, Inc 
45.0 Robert W. Rounsa lle & Associates 74 2 Services Directory 80 0 SONY Broadcast Products 24-25 с Standard Rate ё Data Service, Inc. 57 0 Joe 


Sullivan & Associates, Inc. 91 3TeleVentures 50-51 © Times Mirror Third Cover O USTV Front Cover O Viacom 15, 16-17 2 Ward-Back Systems Ltd. Fourth 
Cover 


s розгадє paid at Washington, D C. 
Canadian and 


32 exce al issues 33 50 (50h Anniversary issue р 
Incriertonal subscribers adc $20 per year U.S, and possessons $25 yearyfor speciatdeivory $100 ior р ly. Broadcasting O Cablecasting 
Yearbook $105. Aerosa ihe Dial 50,39 Vicrolim ol Broadeasting is avaiable irom University Micro Nerih Zeeb Road. Ann Arbor, Mich. 48106 (35mm. ‘ul year 855). Microfiche ol 


Broadeastinig з avalabie гот Во! & Howell Micro Photo Division, Od Mansheid Road. Wooster Оһо 44691 (837: . Pesimatler please send address Corrections о Broadcasting. 1705 DeSales 
St. NW Washington. D.C. 20038. 


No stereo standard 


Fearing protracted litigation, FCC 
Commissioner Jim Quello told 
BROADCASTING last week he opposes 
National Telecommunications and 
Information Administration's proposal 
1o protect pilot tone of C-Quam AM 
Stereo system and give system boost 
in ongoing marketplace standards 
battle with Kahn Communications" 
single-sideband system. But, he said, 
he will state at Tuesday's (Nov. 24) 
open FCC meeting at which NTIA 
proposal comes to vote that he 
believes marketplace has already 
chosen C-Quam system as de facto 
standard. 


Children’s hour 


In response to broadcasters’ calls for 
clarification of broadcast indecency 
policy adopted by FCC last April, 
agency is expected lo reinstate safe 
harbor hour after which broadcasters 
may air more explicit programing 
dealing with sexual or excretory 
activities or organs, according to 
sources, However, they said, safe 
harbor hour will be moved back pre- 
April's 10 p.m. to either 11 p.m. or 
midnight. Action is expected this 
week 


— 
Greased pole 


Television Bureau of Advertising 
board has lowered projections for 
1987 national TV spot advertising. 
Originally forecast at 592-78 growth 
rate, figures have been revised 
downward to 3%-5%, dropping total 
1987 national TV spot dollars by 
some $130 million to $6.835 billion. 
TVB had found some softness in 
third-quarter time sales, with national 
spot up only 2.9% and local up 
4.6%, for total of 3.7% 


— 
Fiber future 


Association of Independent Television 
Stations refrained from filing 
comments on cable-telephone 
company crossownership proceeding 
at FCC (BROADCASTING, Nov. 9) but 
will have something to say in second 
round of comments. INTV, citing 
announcement by National 
Telecommunications and Information 
Administration to conduct. wide- 
ranging study of cable television 


service, will call for broader inquiry 
into future of video delivery to 
home. Association is likely to 
recommend that FCC take hard look 
at development of fiber optic delivery 
system. INTV board, after hearing 
more about fiber optic cable build 
during October meeting {it met with 
Tom Gillett, project manager for 
GTE's fiber optic cable system in 
Cerritos, Calif.) began to re-evaluate 
its position on issue, and association 
held off on entering debate during 
initial filing. 


———— 
Let us wait 


Organizers of National Interfaith Ca- 
ble Coalition have postponed press 
conference scheduled for this week 
in Washington, at which launch of 
ecumenical cable channel was to 
have been discussed. NICC officials 
were meeting last Friday in New 
York in an effort to continue to iron 
out details of plan, and organization 
said recent meetings with cable 
officials in Denver and Palm Springs, 
Calif., were very positive. Channel is 
expected to be launched next year. 


After Paro 


Association of Maximum Service 
Telecasters is moving toward 
decision by end of year on successor 
to AMST President Tom Paro, who 
has announced retirement. Among 
top candidates: Margita White, 
former FCC commissioner who now 
represents Television Operators 
Caucus; John Sturm, Washington 
lobbyist for CBS, and Mary Jo 
Manning, former chief counsel of 
Senate Communications 
Subcommittee, now with law firm of 
Wilkes Artis Hedrick & Lane. 


Markey with eggs 


National Association of Broadcasters 
President Eddie Fritts is hosting 
political fund raiser for House 
Telecommunications Subcommittee 
Chairman Ed Markey (D-Mass.) on 
Dec. 3. Fritts has invited smali 
gathering of broadcasters to attend" 
breakfast at NAB headquarters. 


Intelsat challenge 


U.S. is expected to seek 
postponement of planned domestic 


Broaccasiing Now 23 1987 


services pricing issue when Intelsat 
Board of Governors convenes for 
quarterly meeting on Dec. 10. Pan 
American Satellite Corp. has been 
urging government to seek 
postponement to allow time for 
evaluation of comments on Intelsat 
proposals that PAS, in economic 
Study filed with FCC last week, says 
would result in prices far below cost. 
PAS says result would be higher 
rates for monopoly services used by 
American rate payers (see page 82). 
State Department official said PAS 
request is not only reason deferral 
would be sought. He said U.S. was 
to have further talks with Intelsat 
Director General Dean Burch on 
matter, but that those talks have not 
yet been held. 


— 
National plan 


America's Most Wanted, half-hour 
series designed to aid in capture of 
criminals, premiering on Fox 
Television stations in January, may 
ultimately be aimed for national 
exposure through syndication or 
network. Although development of 
series on Fox stations has led to 
attempts at national exposure in past, 
as in case of Fox’s A Current 
Affair, now in syndication, Fox 
would not conflrm any such 
aspirations for America's Most 
Wanted, Test run of series on Fox 
stations allows company to fecl out 
audience reception in 25% of 
country. America's Most Wanted 
will have Michael Linder as 
executive producer and John Walsh 
as host. Walsh was creator of made- 
for-television movie, Adam, based 
on slaying of his 6-year-old son. 


Peace Movement 


Striving for better relations with 
cable, Television Operators Caucus 
invited National Cable Television 
Association President Jim Mooney to 
lunch at meeting it convened in New 
York. Group operators asked 
Mooney for suggestions on how two 
groups can improve cooperation. 
According to sources, NCTA chief 
pointed out that ability to work 
together on issues such as must 
carry are hampered by factions 
within industry, particularly when 
Association of Independent Television 
Stations President Presion Padden 
calls for re-regulation of cable 
industry and competition from telcos. 


ИНИНИ 


Guess who we caught 
watching Cagney & Lacey. 


Source: NTEIU82- 2/87 


96 of di 

34% of our audience 
Cagney & Lacey is not for women only. More than a third of 

our viewers are men 18+. What's more, over four years, our ratings 

and share have stayed solid from first-run to repeat. That means a 

loyal audience of men and women can't wait to watch in syndication. 


Put Cagney & Lacey in your lineup. 
To settle for anything less is a crime. 


Where Things Stands 


A weekly status report on major issues іп the Fifth Estate 


right 1987 Broadcasting Publication inc. May be quoted 
wih credi 


= Solid bor denotes items that have changed 
since last issue. 


AM-FM allocations. FCC has authorized night- 
lime operation for 21 of 41 daytime-only AM sta- 
tions on 1540 khz, foreign clear channel, Fre- 
quencys nighttime operation priority has 
belonged to Bahamas. However, since the ne- 
gatiation of new international agreements, limit- 
ed nighttime use of 14 Class Г.А foreign clear 
channels will be allowed. Announcement of 21 
stations affected will be delayed until early De- 
cember when grace period tor possible objec- 
lions from Bahamas expires. 

In response to FCC inquiry National Associ- 
ation of Broadcasters told FCC Aug. 31 not to 
permit FM stations to use directional antennas, 
Claiming it would lead to "AM-zalion" of ЕМ 
band, However, several FM broadcasters com- 
menting in proceeding look opposite position, 
‘contending directional antennas would benefit 
FM radio and public 

In July, NAB filed comments supporting FCC's 
proposal to allow most AM daytimers (1,600 of 
between 1,800 and 1,900) to provide nighttime 
service at or near lowest post-sunset power al- 
ready granted those daytimers by FCC. Howev- 
er, NAB said FCC should authorize new night- 
lime service on interim basis until it completes 
comprehensive review of AM interference stan- 
dards in separate proceeding launched last 
month. Others said FCC should defer any action 
until review is completed and new interference 
standards are adopted. FCC hopes to have final 
order shortly, 


a 


АМ stereo. Motorolas C-Quam AM stereo sys- 
tem moved closer to establishing itself as de 
facto standard with Aug. 12 release by National 
Telecommunications and Information Adminis- 
tration of follow-up report to one released last 
February on AM stereo marketplace. 

Multisystem radios receive signals generated 
by two incompatible systems battling to be de 
facto standard—C-Quam and Kahn Communi- 
cations’ single-sideband. Second report stated 
that while there is no inherent degradation of 
sound quality in multisystem compared to sin- 
gle-system radios, implementation of multisys- 
lem technology is nol feasible because of lack 
of support among radio manufacturers and 
dominance of single-system, C-Quam standard 
in international marketplace, МПА recommend- 
ed to FCC that il protect C-Quam's pilot tone 
from possible interference. Commissions Mass 
Media Bureau has prepared statement on AM 
stereo pilot tone protection. 

Kahn Communications has responded by pe- 
titioning МПА "to finish ils job" by undertaking 
direct comparison ol two systems and publish- 
ing definitive study to determine whichis superi- 
ог It has aiso submitted comments to FCC say- 
ing that pilot tone protection is "unnecessary" 
and that it “clearly contradicts the administia- 
lions and the FCC's avowed support of the free 
marketplace." Meanwhile, Motorola is claiming 
that standards battle is over and that new inte- 


grated circuits in radios to be released in 1988 
will solidify C-Quam and stereo in general in AM 
marketplace. 


[=] 


m Antitrafficking. Last month, Senate Com- 
merce Committee adopted revenue-raising 
package aimed at reducing trafficking of broad- 
cast licenses (BROADCASTING, Oct. 26). А 4% 
transfer fee would be imposed on broadcast 
licenses transferred within three years of last 
sale. Congressional interest in reinstating FCC's 
antitrafficking rule has been building, with legis- 
lation introduced earlier this year in House and 
Senate that would restore rules requiring broad- 
cast stations to be owned three years before 
sale 


a 


a Cable regulation. Two federal court judges in 
northern district of California in decisions issued 
‘one week apart in September, ruled that cities’ 
cable franchise provisions requiring cable oper- 
alors lo provide access channels and universal 
service and to build and maintain “state-of-the- 
art" cable systems are unconstilutional—viola- 
tion of First Amendment rights of cable opera- 
tors. In earlier decision, one of those judges, 
Eugene Lynch, held that Palo Alto, Calif., and 
two nearby communities must award franchise 
to Century Communications Inc., even though it 
did not go through franchise process. Cours’ 
decisions run counter to decisions in other 
courts. 

FCC has opened rulemaking to define more 
narrowly those television markets where the 
rates of cable systems cannot be regulated be- 
cause the systems are subject to "effective com- 
petition” from cable systems. Rulemaking was 
launched in response to U.S, Court of Appeals 
in Washington, which endorsed FCC's basic 
finding thal three broadcast signals constituted 
“effective competition,” but which felt FCC's defi- 
nition of which signals should be deemed *avail- 
able” in market was too broad. Upshot of rule- 
making is thal fewer cable systems are likely to 
escape rate regulation. 

On Capitol Hill, House Telecommunications 
‘Subcommittee has postponed indefinitely over- 
sight hearing on status of cable industry three 
years after deregulation. It was scheduled for 
Oct. 29 but because cf sudden developments 
оп Wall Street, subcommittee needed lo con- 
vene series of closed-member briefings on Situ- 
ation and cable hearing was bumped (BRoaD- 
CASTING, Oct. 26). Subcommittee still intends to 
hold series of oversight hearings on cable. 

Meanwhile, Representatives John Bryant (D- 
Tex.) and Al Swift (D-Wash.) have introduced 
legislation at behest of coalition of commercial 
and noncommercial broadcasters, National 
League of Cities and Motion Picture Association 
of America that would grant cities {as franchis- 
ing authority) right to specify “in the franchise or 
by any other means, the channel or service tier 
оп which the cable system must carry (1) any 
channe! designated for public, educational or 


Broadcasiing Nov 23 1867 


governmental uses and (2) the signals of any 
television broadcast station that the cable sys- 
lem is required to carry by federal law or regula- 
tion” (Bacapcasnwe, Sept. 14). 


n 


Children’s television. In response to U.S. 
Court of Appeals in Washington and petitions 
from Action for Children’s Television, FCC voted 
unanimously to launch broad inquiry into chil- 
dren's advertising. Among the questions to be 
addressed: Should FCC reimpose time limits on 
children's advertising similar to those dropped 
in 1984 and are childrens programs based on 
toys no more than so-called "program-length" 
commercials and. if so, should they be some- 
how restricted. 

U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington set stage 
for inquiry when it remanded to FCC 1984 ellmi- 
nation of time limits on children’s advertising on 
ground that FCC had failed to justify deregula- 
tory action with either facts or analysis. 

Impetus behind FCC action also came from 
Capitol Hill. House Telecommunications Sub- 
committee Chairman Ed Markey (D-Mass.] and 
Representative Terry Bruce (0-11.) have intro 
duced bill that would limit advertising during 
children’s programs. Measure has support of 
four other subcommittee members. Represanta- 
tive John Bryant (D-Tex.), also on subcommil- 
tee, intends to offer childrens TV bill similar to 
one by Senator Frank Lautenberg (D-N.J.). Lau- 
tenbergs measure would require each commer- 
cial television network to air seven hours per 
week of educational programing designed for 
children and would require FCC to hold inquir- 
ies into “program-length commercials" and pro- 
grams featuring interactive toys 


o 


= Compulsory license. At Nov 4 panel session 
in Washington, FCC Chairman Dennis Patrick 
reiterated misgivings about cable compulsory 
license. FCC is considering reimposing syndi- 
cated exclusivity rules on assumption that com- 
pulsory license is "flawed," he said. 

Patrick's feelings toward license are not aca- 
demic. FCC is now reviewing industry com- 
ments in inquiry that could lead to recommenda- 
tion to Congress that compulsory license be 
abolished. In comments, first of which were filed 
last August, cable industry argued for preserva- 
tion of license. National Association of Broad- 
casters softened its long-standing opposition to 
license, arguing that license should be left alone 
for lime being, Most broadcasters, however, 
urged elimination or modification of rules to limit 
importation of distant signals, It was joined by 
Motion Picture Association of America. 

NCTA views Association of Independent Tele- 
vision Stations’ compulsory license comments 
(which called for limiting application of license 
1o carriage of local signals only and abolishing 
license for distant signals altogether), as viola- 
tion of must-carry agreement that broadcast 
and cable industries reached last year (INTV is 
signatory). INTV, nevertheless, denied it has 
"gone back on its word" and defended its ac- 


plex layert 
creative transitions and 
digital effects control 
take a powerful switcher... 


mE “a ктт 


but not a big, expensivi 


د 


GYG MODEL 200 = 42" — 


Toe Mal is trades f The Gras Valley Go 


пе. introducing Vista. 


MERE Я 


JG Apes Crpraon. 


25 


1 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
-] 


The new Vista switcher will absolutely change 
the way you look at switchers. 

Vista gives you all the power and ease-of-use of 
a “big” switcher, in a third the space and at half 
the price. 

First of all, you get four keyers and twelve 
busses with full program preset mix capability. 

‘That makes complex layering and sophisticated 
production easier. You don’t have to make multiple 
passes, and fewer generations means you'll get 
cleaner pictures. 


Revolutionary electro-luminescent display 

‘The Vista switcher has a revolutionary display 
that simplifies your most complicated produc- 
tion tasks. It puts the 
information you need 
about operating 
status and memory 
setups right in front 
of you, so you'll always know where you are. 

And few switchers of any size have a memory 
like Vista. It stores 24 complete panel set-ups and 
24 sequences for fast, easy recall of any combina- 
tion of switcher operations, 


Unprecedented digital effects control 

When it comes to inserting and manipulating 
ADO™ or other digital effects, the Vista switcher 
virtually doubles your capability. Effects that take 
two M/Es with ordinary switchers require only 
one on Vista, thanks to our new DigiLoop™ 
effects circuit. 

So compare. You'll find big power no longer has 
to mean big size or big bucks. 

You can get a Vista switcher brochure by filling 
out and mailing the attached сага. 

Or better yet, give us a call today. 


Atlanta (404) 4917112 Chicago (302) $62 6000 
Dallas (214) 960-1 les (А) 365-8627 
Now Jer 


Canada (416) 821-8840 


Fairness doctrine update 


Broadcasters are awaiting House action on the fairness doctrine this week as a catch-all 
spending bill (ihe continuing resolulion) moves to the floor for a vote. The doctrine is 
expected to be attached to the resolution (a funding measure that keeps the government 
operating) because It is viewed as veto-proof. The House delayed a vote on the resolution 
two weeks ago (BROADCASTING, Nov 9). In the Senate, Commerce Committee Chairman 
Ernest Hollings (D-S.C.) has offered a revenue-raising package (adopted by the commit- 
tee 12-5) that, in addition to establishing a basic 2% FCC license transfer fee, would 
codify the fairness doctrine (BroaccastinG, Oct 26) and add 1% to the transfer fee for any 
seller who had violated the doctrine. The National Association of Broadcasters has em- 
barked on a major campaign to defeat the measure (BROADCASTING, Nov. 2). 

The fairness doctrine was repealed by the FCC on Aug. 4. Earlier, President Reagan 
vetoed а bill coditying the fairness doctrine, and doctrine proponents lacked the votes lo 
override 

Senators Bob Packwood (R-Ore.). Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and William Proxmire (D- 
Wis.) have circulated a "Dear Colleague" letter supporting the repeal. In the House, 
Representative Tom Tauke (R-lowa) and others sent a letter to counter earlier correspon- 
dence from House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman John Dingell (D-Mich.), 
who is leading efforts in the House to enact the doctrine into law (BROADCASTING, Nov. 9) 
Dingell letter raised Ihe specter of the loss of the equal time law, saying repeal of the 
doctrine strikes a! the heart of equal time, which requires broadcasters who give or sell air 
time 10 one political candidate to give or sell tme lo that candidates opponents. The FCC. 
has maintained that its decision does not affect equal time, which is embedded іп Section 
315 of the Communications Act 


Editor's note: Copies of Broapcasrimc's "The Decline and Fall of the Fairness Doctrine," which com. 
prises a full text of the decision, including footnotes, plua blow-by blow coverage of the historic decision 
and industry reaction, are still avaiable for $5 from the BROADCASTING Book Division, 1705 DeSales 


Street NW, Washington, D.C. #0046. 


tions {Вяолослвт\чб, Aug. 10) 


ü 


m Crossownership. Nationis telephone com- 
ments filed comments at FCC two weeks ago 
calling on Congress and FCC to drop prohibi- 
tions barring them Irom entering cable television 
business in areas where they provide telephone. 
service, 

Prohibitions have been in place for nearly two 
decades, FCC's rules barring such crossowner- 
ship were adopted in 1970 and Congress codi- 
fied them in Cable Communications Policy Act 
of 1984 FCC current inquiry could lead to rec- 
‘ommendation to Congress that rules be rs- 
pealed. 

In comments, telcos said cable had been 

slow in implementing new technology because 
of lack of competition and said telco crossow- 
nerhip would be of benefit to public in lower 
costs. Cable groups said telcos’ history of 
abuses” of cable owners and their ability to 
cross-subsidize their cable operations through 
phone revenue could destroy cable companies 
Reply comments are due Dec. 2. 

Even il Congress drops prohibitions, seven 
Bell operating companies would still be prevent- 
ed from entertaining cable business by Judge 
Harold Greene's modified final judgement in 
consent decrees that led to breakup of AT&T 
and creation of seven companies. As part of first 
triennial reassessment of modified final judg- 
ment that resulted in breakup of AT&T, District 
Court Judge Harold Greene in September da- 
cided against lifting prohibitions against Be lop- 
erating companies’ providing “information ser- 
vices," which include everything from electronic 
mail to videotex to cable television 


a 


Direct broadcast satellites. High-power DBS, 
which would use Ku-band spectrum set aside 


for it, has foundered in U.S. because of high 
start-up costs and programing dearth. But Euro- 
pean govemmenis are pushing ahead with 
launching of systems. First to give medium try 
on continent will be West Germany French-con- 
rolled Arianespace has tentatively set Nov. 17 
for launch of Wes! Germany's cucchannel 
‘TSat 1. Country will use two channels for public 
television, will tum over other two to commercial 
operators 

Low power variely of satelite broadcasting 
resulting from scrambling of cable programing 
оп C-band satellites has emerged from home 
satelite market. It got started in January 1986, 
when Home Box Office scrambled feeds ol HBO 
апа Cinemax and began selling subscriptions 
to owners of backyard earth stations (TVROS), 
which now number more than 1.7 milion. Num- 
ber of TYRO homes subscribing to cable pro- 
graming has grown as more cable programers 
have scrambled feeds and begun selling sub- 
scriptions directly or through cable operators 
and other third paries. HBO now wants other 
major cable programers to join it in stepping up 
from C-band lo medium-power Ku-band salel- 
lites that can beam signals to much smaller 
dishes. 


п 


Equal employment opportunity. FCC has 
amended ils broadcast equal employment op- 
portunity rules and reporting requirements. Ev- 
ery Stations EEO program wil! be subject to re- 
view al renewal time regardless of emplayment 
profile, but FCC said review will focus more on 
EEO efforts than numbers. Stations with five or 
more empioyes are required to file detailed re- 
ports. 

For cable, FCC has adopted rules implement- 
ing EEO aspects of Cable Communications Poli- 
су Act of 1984. Under broadcas! icense renew- 
al legislation offered by Congressman Al Swift 
(D-Wash), same EEO formula in Cable Act 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1087 
14 


would apply to broadcasters. 


n 


= Federal Trade Commission. FTC is in midst 
of antitrust investigation of Nationa’ Football 
League television rights contracts, having is- 
sued subpoenas to ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox Broad 
casting and NFL. Under investigation is possi- 
ble collusion among three broadcast nelworks 
in pressuring NFL to make rights deals with net- 
works and ESPN, and to eschew bids of others, 
namely Fox Broadcasting and Home Box Office, 
during negotiation of three-year, $1.4-bilion 
rights packages early this year. ESPN is princi- 
pally owned by ABC. Fox is complaining most 
loudly Fox President Jamie Kellner has said Fox 
made highest bid for Monday night package. 
but thal NFL renewed contract with ABC. 

їп addition to Kellner, FTC has received testi- 
mony of several high-level network executives, 
including Capital Cities/ABC President Daniel 
Burke and NBC Sports President Arthur Watson. 
CBS President and CEO Laurence Tisch and 
CBS Sports President Neal Filson have also ге- 
portedly testified. 

їп related development, leagues contract 
with ESPN for package of Sunday-night games 
was subject of Senate hearing. Senators Arlen 
Specter (F-Pa.) and Howard Metzenbaum (D- 
Ohio) are expected to ask Justice Department 
lo examine impact of NFLs antitrust exemption 
asit applies to cable and to look at ABC's owner- 
ship of ESPN and possible antitrust implications 
(BROADCASTING, Oct. 12). 


a 


= High-definition television. HDTV is becom- 
ing increasingly important issue. Next move will 
come when FCC newly lormed Advanced Tele- 
vision (AIV) Services Advisory Committee 
meets for first time tomorrow, Nov 17 Makeup of 
upper tier of advisory committee, "blue ribbon” 
Advisory panel, includes chet executives of 
three major networks, country's second largest 
MSO, and two former FCC chairmen. Second 
lier of committee comprises three subcommi- 
tees open lo all interested parties. Committee 
was formed as рап of July 16 FCC order that 
also launched inquiry into ATV In connection 
with inquiry, Ine FCC has also decided to hold in 
abeyance any reallocation of UHF channels 
from broadcasting to mobile radio until advisory 
committee makes interim report next spring. 

Executive committee of National Association 
ot Broadcasters has approved formation of 
Broadcast Technology Center dedicated to 
HDTV research. Center wil be under control of 
NAB Technologies Inc. for-profit subsidiary. 
NAB НОТУ Task Force approved expenditures 
©! $200,000 through end o! frst quarter of 1988 
for HDTV research projects and demonstra- 
tions, Funds will come {rom $700,000 ear- 
marked tor task force's work by NAB board last 
June. 

Advanced Television Systems Committees T3 
group voted Sept. 30 lo approve formal docu- 
ment outlining standard devised by working 
group of SMPTE on high-definition electronic 
production. Standard will nex! be vated upon by 
entire ATSC membership. Standard sets param- 
eters for НОТУ production at 1,125 ines, 60 hz 
field and 16:9 aspect ralio. SMPTES full mem- 
bership mus! also approve standard, alter 
Which it will be submitted to American National 
Standards Institute. 


о 


iacom introduces the newest 

weapon in the war for ratings 
victory. Exploitables 4. 

The unstoppable collection of 
feature films that’ packed with the 
raw, conquering force of non-stop 
action and adventure. 

Exploitables 4 arms you with 
commandos and champions. 
Martial arts demons. Evil gods. 
And mythic magicians. Each one 
ready—and waiting—to bring 
you ratings domination. 

Arm yourself with 
Exploitables 4. And be 


a hero in your market. Viacom. 


International Telecommunications Satellite 
Organization. In dramatic end to investigation 
by U.S. attorney fcr District of Columbia, former 
Intelsat director general, Richard Colino, and 
business associates in July pleaded guilty in 
U.S. district court to criminal fraud and conspir- 
acy charges growing out of $4.8 million said to 
have been siphoned from Intelsat during con- 
truction of addition to its headquarters build- 
ing. Colinc, along with Deputy Director General 
Jose L. Alegrett, was fired by board in Decem- 
ber after outside lawyers and auditors submit- 
ted report indicating their possible involvement 
infinancial irregularities, And in September, U.S. 
district court judge in Washington, saying total 
loss to Intelsat had been $5.4 million, sentenced 
Colino to six years in minimum security prison 
and ordered him to make restitution of 
$885,000. One associate was sentenced to 
three years and fined $100,000, cther was sen- 
tenced to two years. Intelsat in May filed civil suit 
against Colino, claiming his activities resulted in 
damage to organization of up to $11.5 million 
(BROADCASTING, May 25]. His attorneys filed re- 
sponse contending that court lacks jurisdiction 
Over suit. 

Intelsat members, meeting in Extraordinary 
Assembly of Parties April 1-3, confirmed Board 
of Governors selection of Dean Burch as direc- 
tor general, succeeding Colino. 


п 


Intemational telecommunications satellite 
systems. President Reagan in November 1984 
determined that separate U.S. systems provid- 
ing international communications satellite ser- 
vice are in public interest, provided restrictions 
are imposed to protect economic health of inter- 
national Telecommunications Satellite Organiza- 
tion. Thus tar, eight systems have received con- 
ditional authorization from FCC, but proposal of 
only one, Panamerican Satellite Corp., which 
has secured Peru as foreign partner, has been 
consulted with Intelsat. Assembly of Parties, act- 
ing on recommendation of board of governors, 
approved consultation at meeting in April 


n 


Land-mobile. To eliminate interference UHF 
television stations on channels 14 and 69 cause 
mobile radio users on adjacent channels, FCC 
has proposed minimum mileage spacings be- 
tween new UHF television stations (or new tele- 
vision transmission sites) and existing land-mo- 
bile operations. And it a UHF station cannot 
meet spacing criteria, the FCC also proposed, 
station must work out deals in which it pays 
short-spaced mobile radio operators to accept 
a certain amount of interference or to use other 
nonadjacent channels. 

In related inquiry FCC has suggested making 
channels 14 and 69 available to mobile radio 
and cther nonbroadcast users in areas where 
broadcasters cannot meet spacing requirement 
or work out deal with mobile radio operators. 

їп response to petition from National Assoc 
ation of Broadcasters and Association of Maxi 
mum Service Telecasters, FCC has said it will 
delay decision on reallocation cf UHF channels 
in eight markets to mobile radio until completion 
of its study on advanced television systems and 
local broadcasting (see "High-definition televi- 
sion,” above), Broadcasters and FCC believe 
UHF spectrum may be needed for broadcasting 
ATV systems. 


a 


License renewal reform. At FCC, broadcast- 
ers may get some relief fram groups that file 
petitions to deny broadcast stations’ renewal or 
sale applications and demand payoffs from al- 
fected stations to withdraw them. Under pro- 
posed rules, now subject of FCC rulemaking, 
groups filing such petitions would be limited to 
recovering only costs Involved in preparing and 
prosecuting their filings. In comments filed Oct. 
26., most agreed with FCC proposal. Notably 
absent from list of commenters was National 
Black Media Coalition, which asked for exten- 
sion of reply comment deadline. It has filed an 
FOIA request with commission for evidence cf 
shakedowns rules are meant to correct, absent 
which, it asserts, there is insufficient information 
upon which to comment. 

Legislation to reform comparative renewal 
process is pending in House and Senate, but 
fate of proposed measures |s unclear. Latest 
renewal measure was offered last month by Re- 
presentative Al Swift (D-Wash.) who would elimi- 
nate comparative renewal in exchange for pub- 
lic service obligations (BROADCASTING, Oct, 19). 
NAB board rejected measure when it was in 
draft form and now says it wants radio-only com- 
parative renewal measure, something that 
appears to have litte, il any, appeal on Capitol 
Hill. 

Hil! leadership has indicated thal no broad- 
cast legislation (at least any measure industry 
wants) will move until outcome of fairness doc- 
trine is determined. 


[е] 


= High-definition television. НОТУ is becom- 
ing increasingly important issue, Next move will 
come when FCC's newly formed Advanced Tele- 
vision (AIV) Services Advisory Committee 
meets for firsttime tomorrow, Nov. 17, Makeup cf 
upper tier of advisory committee, "blue ribbon" 
advisory panel. includes chief executives cf 
three major networks, country’s second largest 
MSO, and twa former FCC chairmen. Second 
tier of committee comprises three subcommit- 
tees open lo all interested parties. Committee 
was formed as part ol July 16 FCC order that 
also launched inquiry into ATV. In connection 
with inquiry the FCC has also decided to hold in 
abeyance any reallocation of UHF channels 
from broadcasting to mobile radio until advisory 
committee makes interim report next spring. 

Executive committee of National Association 
of Broadcasters has approved formation ot 
Broadcast Technology Center dedicated to 
HDTV research. Center will be under control of 
NAB Technologies Inc. for-profit subsidiary. 
МАВЗ HDTV Task Force approved expenditures 
©! $200,000 through end of first quarter of 1988 
for HDTV research projects and demonstra- 
tions. Funds will come from $700,000 ear- 
marked for task-force’s work by NAB board last 
June, 

Advanced Television Systems Committee's T3 
group voted Sept. 30 to approve formal docu- 
ment outlining standard devised by working 
group of SMPTE on high-definition electronic 
production, Standard will next be voted upon by 
entire ATSC membership. Standard sets param- 
eters for НОТУ production at 1,125 lines, 60 hz 
field and 16:9 aspect ratio. SMPTE's full mem- 
bership must also approve standard, after 
which il will be submitted to American National 
Standards Institute, 


a 


= Mergers. Special shareholder meeting lor Ad- 
ams-Aussell is scheduled this Friday, Nov. 20, to 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


vote on $470-million cable operation sale to Ca- 
blevision Systems. Cablevision will invest $40 
milion in buy, with bulk of financing for deal com- 
ing from General Electric Credit Corp. GE- 
owned Kidder, Peabody & Co. will also provide 
$125 million trom private placement of senior 
subordinated notes. 

Storer Television has closed on sale of first 
five TV stations to company 55%-held and m 
aged by Gillett Corp. FCC approved $1.3-ti 
lion, six-station restructuring in October. Closing 
on sixth slation in Milwaukee is expected aiter 
license renewal in early December, 

о Continental Cablevision has agreed to buy 
American Cablesystems for $481.7 million, or 
$46.50 per share. Combined systems would 
have over 2 milion subscribers. U.S. Cable 
Corp., new group headed by ML Media princi- 
pels, Martin Ротрасис and Elton Rule, made 
$233 million offer tor Essex Communications, 
Greenwich, Conn-based MSO with 135.000 
subscribers. ML earlier bought C4 Media, Vien- 
na, Va-based MSO of about 65,000 subs for 
5126 million 

с Radio group broadcast Summit Communi- 
cations is buying DKM Broadcasting ‘or ap- 
proximately $200 million, second-largest radio- 
only sale, DKM holds AM-FM combinations in 
eight cities. 

O Adams Communications has signed agres- 
ment to buy Forward Communications’ five TV 
slalions for $126.5 million from Wesray Capital 
Corp., which bought group in 1984 tor $95 mil- 
lion. 

Deais called off in wake of stock market de- 
ciine so far include: proposed merger of cable 
system operators United Artists and United Ca- 
ble, and $114-million TV station sale by United 
Broadcasting Corp. to ML Media Partners. Also 
in question is proposed sale of Storer Cables 
1.4 million-subscriber cable systems for $2.5 
billion-83 billion, particularly with evaporation of 
high-yield bond market, favored financing tool 
of Storer.parent Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. 


a 


Must carry. Group of cable operators, including 
United Cable and Daniels & Associates, have 
asked U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington to 
Tind FCC's new must-carry rules unconstitution- 
al—violation of cable operators’ First Amend- 
ment rights—just as it did old rules in summer of 
1985. New rules, which are less onerous for op- 
erators than were old ones, are product of com- 
promise between cable and broadcasting in- 
dustries. Not appealing rules was Tumer 
Broadcasting System, whose First Amendment 
suit was one of two that led to court outlawing 
old must-carry rules two years ago. In fight of 
limited scope and duration of new rules—they 
are set to expire after five years—TBS said it 
was "unnecessary" to pursue further judicial 
challenge. Oral arguments were held two weeks 
ago and although it was dificult to gauge where 
court will come dcwn, some observers, based 
‘on questions by judges, felt there was. 
strong likelihood rules might be remanded to 
FCC citing specific problems while not attack- 
ing overall rationale of rule (BROADCASTING, Oct. 
26) 

In House, Representative Edward Markey (D- 
Mass.) has introduced bill to repeal five-year 
sunset provision of rules that sel guidelines for 
cable carriage of broadcast stations. Action on 
measure had been put on hold until Congress 
resolves fairness issue. Some observers say 
Congress is far less sympathetic to lending its 
‘support on must carry since abolition of fairness 
doctrine. Senate broadcast license renewal bill 


360 Million Miles 
Travelled. 


52,000 Hours 
of Continuous Transmission. 


40+ Programmers 
Served to Date. 


4000+ C-Band 
Headend Antennas. 


35,000,000+ Subscribers. 


چ 


Satcom HIER was launched six 
years ago, and since then it has racked 
up some numbers worth celebrating. 


replacement for all protected trans: 
ponders on LII R— has always been 
and still is thc best in the busincss, a 


The hours and the miles haven't. standard for the industry 


affected IIR’ signal strength. In 


With that kind of strength and 


fact, the bird is performing as well as security it's not surprising that Sat 


ever. This year's test data prove it — 
transponders meet or exceed the 
original performance specifications. 
And Satcom IIER's protection 
system — а system offering in-orbit 


HORE eas Tome Shopbing аво Tu La 
Trinity Broudeasting Network, USA Network 


Sateen WER include: Arts & Enter 


com ШЖ commands the confidence 
of many prominent programmers? 
A number of major program 
mers — including Arts & Entertain 
ment Network, CBN, ESPN, Lifetime 


ment Netuork, Black Enter teins 


tel, Lifetime, QVC Ne 


rk, Gable V 
viter Service, Shop Television Nein 


and Trinity Broadcasting Network 
— have already expressed their 
opinions by signing contracts for 
the entire life of the satellite 
through 1992 

Tn addition to serving today's 
leading programmers on Satcom 
UE R and its companion bird, Satcom 
1V, we're taking steps to help launch 
the programmers of tomorrow. Our 
“grow with” rates, for example, help 


ESPN, Financial News Network/Telshop 
ENPO Television, The Travel C 


newcomers get into the business on 
Satcom ER and IER without going 
into the red. 

All the programmers on IIR, 
successes and start ups alike, have 
7,000 things in common: that's how 
many oper ators’ antennas are 


pointed at our bird, And it repre- 
sents a potential reach of 35 million 
subscribers. 

Satcom IIE-R's success runs in 


the Western Cable Show. You'll ea: 
cake, make noise, and remember how 
it feels to be six years young again 


the ever-growing Americom family 
of satellites. By any measure — 
services, hours, antennas or dollars 
invested — the GE Americom fleet is 
the leader in C-Band. Bill Berman, 
Director of CATV Services, (609) 987 
4073, can fill you in on the fz 
You're invited to our party at the 
show. Come join the GE Americom 
family when we celebrate Satcom 
III- R's birthday in our booth, 246, at 


T - 
also would eliminate sunset. But that provision. 
was attacked by Justice Department in letter lo 
‘Senate Communications Subcommittee Chair- 
тап Daniel Inouye (0-Намай). Justice argued 
that five-year sunset is needed to justify consti- 
tutionality of rules (BROADCASTING. Aug. 17), 
However, Justice sent out conflicting signal 
when it filed one-sentence brief with U.S. Ap- 
регі Court on must-carry in which it indicated 
department was neither supporting nor oppos- 
ing rules (BROADCASTING, Aug. 17) 


[s] 


= Public broadcasting. On Capitol Hill, the 
Senate Communications Subcommittee took 
stock of public broadcasting, 20 years alter en- 
aciment of Public Broadcasting Act, at over- 
sight hearing last Thursday (see “Top of the 
Week"). Senate Commerce Committees adop- 
tion of revenue-raising package that would cre- 
ate “Public Broadcasting Trust Fund" based on 
money raised from FCC license transfer fee was 
expected to be discussed as well as public 
broadcasting journalistic independence and 
future of independent productions on medium. 
Fund would not be activated unti! after Sept. 30, 
1989 (BroaocastinG, Oct. 26). House Telecom- 
munications Subcommittee also has oversight 
hearing scheduled for Nov, 18. In other Hill ac- 
tion, Senate passed Labor-Health & Human Ser- 
vices bill Oct. 4 that inciuded $248 million ap- 
propriation for Corporation for Public 
Broadcasting tor FY 1990. 

Board of National Public Radio reelected 
Chairman Jack Mitchell and Vice Chairman 
Ward Chamberlin to one-year terms. Board of 
Corporation for Public Broadcasting elected 
new Chairman and vice chairman at annual 
meeting. Howard Gutin, Texas communications 
consultant and acting chairman since March, 
moved officially into chairman's spot, while New 
York businessman and former CPB Chairman 
William Lee Hanley took over as second in com- 
mand. 

Search committees have been formed to fill 
vacancies in presidencies of American Public 
Radio and National Association of Public Televi- 
sion Stations, and resumes have been received 
inresponse to ads for position of vice president- 
treasurer at Corporation for Public Broadcast- 
ing. Former APR President Al Hulsen and former 
NAPTS President Peter Fannon both resigned 
effective Seat. 1, while former CPB VP-treasurer 
Don Ledwig was promoted to presicent in July 
(Beoxccasrma, June 29, July 6, Aug. 10). 

CPB board, which grew to sight members 
with addition of Wiliam Lee Hanley, Archie Pur- 
vis, Marshall Turner and Sheila Tate in June 
(BroaccastinG, June 29), is likely to see nomina- 
tion of former Tennessee First Lady Honey Alex- 
ander for one of two remaining spots on board. 
Still under consideration is Charles Lichenstein, 
who has been faulted by noncommercial Sys- 
tem for reputedly believing that funding to CPB 
should be cut (“Closed Circuit," June 29). 


a 


= Scrambling. Senate Commerce Committee is 
slated to vote this Thursday, Мох 19, on legisla- 
tion that would regulate home satellite market- 
place. Backyard dish bill enjoys support ol Sen- 
ate Commerce Committee Chairman Ernest 
Hollings (D-S.C.) and ranking Republican John 
Danforth of Missouri (BhoabcasrG, Sept. 7). 
Legislation is expected to undergo some revi- 
sions before it hits Senate floor. Measure would 
require cable programers to allow qualified third 
parties to distribute programing to 1.7 million 
‘owners of backyard earth stations. There has 


i or o umm 
been realignment of industry groups interested 
in TVRO legislation, with Motion Picture Associ- 
ation of America expressing its support for Sen- 
ate dish bill, S. 889 (BroaocastinG, July 27, Aug. 
3). 

On other front, House legislation (H.R. 2848) 
that would permit satellite distribution of broad- 
cast signals—superstations—to backyard dish 
Owners, was to be subject of Copyright Sub- 
committee hearing Nov 12, bul hearing was 
postponed until Thursday, Nov, 19. Companion 
measure may soon emerge in Senate. 


[n] 


Syndex. In comments to FCC, cable operators 
opposed, while broadcasters and program pro- 
ducers supported, FCC's proposal to reimpose 
rules requiring cable systems to black out syndi- 
cated programing on distant signals if it ap- 
pears on local stations. 

The cable industry argued that FCC lacks ju- 
risdiction to reimpose syndex, that absence of 
rules has not harmed broadcasting and motion 
picture industries and that rules would viclate 
cable operators’ First Amendment rights. 

Most broadcasters and program producers 
contended that rules are needed 10 protect 
sanctity of their "exclusive" programing con- 
tracts. And they say they have been harmed 
‘economically by cableimportation of distant sig- 
nals with programs that duplicate those of local 
stations. Among latest broadcaster organiza- 
tions to take stand on syndex is Television Oper- 
alors Caucus, which reached consensus on is- 
sue three weeks ago (BROROCASTNG, Sept. 7). 


п 


= Unions. Fruitless negotiation meeting be- 
tween members of labor relations department of 
CBS and international president of technical 
union, International Brotherhood of Electrical 
‘Workers, was held Thurs., Nov. 5, Sides decided 
to continue meetings and all union members 
remain at status que under terms of old con- 
tract. It was first meeting since three-day meet- 
ings with federal negotiator in Washington end- 
ed Friday, Oct. 23, with litle progress. CBS has 
been holding fast to final offer made following 
month-long negotiations, shortly after old con- 
tract expired at midnight. Sept. 30. CBS affer is 
believed to include 3% raises for each of three 
years of contract and language that would allow 
for unlimited use o! daily hires. Negotiations af- 
fect 1,500 workers at CBS-owned stations in 
seven cities. 

Directors Guild of America members have 
‘overwhelmingly ratified separate three-year 
staff contracts with ABC, CBS and NBC, as well 
as freelance contract covering about 500 addi- 
sional directors at three networks, Vote at ABC 
was 83 to 46 in favor, CBS. 68 to 33, and NBC, 
94 to 20. New staff contracts, covering news, 
sports and operations personnel, provide 3% 
across-the-board raises; minor layoffs in auto- 
mated control area; and more network control 
over editing functions. DGA came out slightly 
ahead at NBC, with network providing few more 
bonusesin seniority. editing jurisdiction and sev- 
erance pay areas. Guild members also ap- 
proved pact covering low-budget theatrical lea- 
ture productions, 2,155 10 144, and 
commercials, 2,180 to 106, Й 


== Incicatos new or revised entry 


i 
This week 


Nov. 23—15th annual Intemational Emmy Awards 
gala, sponsored by International Council of National 
Academy of Television Aris and Sciences. Sheraton 
Center, New York. 


Мом. 24. International Radio and Television Society 
newsmaker luncheon, "Television New Sources, New 
Forces," featuring Sumner Radstone, Viacom; Fréd Sit 
verman, Fred Silverman Со: Henry Bushkin, Bushkin, 
байте, Gaines & Jonas, and Brad Marks, Korn/Ferry 
hiemaional Folowes by ITS second алый goods 
and services calebrly auction. Waldor-Aflora, New 
га 


Nov. 24— Presentation of Nancy Reagan Drug Preven- 
ton Award, sponsored by Entertainment Industries 
Council, to B. Donald (Bud) Grant, former president, 
CBS Entertainment. Bevery Wilshire hotel, Los Ange 
les. 


Nov. 24—Screening ol “Interviews with the Interview- 
ffs,” by video artist Skip Blumberg. CBS's Mike Wallace 
will answer questions. Sponsored by Donnell Library, 
20 Wes! 53rd Street, New York. 


_—— 
December 
Doc. 1—Deadline tor entries in 18th annual National 
Educational Film & video Festival. Festival is scheduled 
for April 29-May 1, 1988. For entry form, call or write: 
NEFVF, 314 East 10th Street, Oakland. Calif., 94606: 
(415) 465-6885. 


Dec. 2—Reply comments due in FCC proceeding 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 
22 


(docket 87-266) on telephone company-cable cross- 
Ownership rules, FCC, Washington. 


Dec. 2-41—Westem Cable Show, sponsored by Califor- 
mía Cable Television Association. Anaheim Conven- 
tion Center, Anaheim, Сай. 


Dec. 3- American Sportscasters Association fourth 
annual Hall of Fame Awards dinner, Marriott Marquis, 
New York, Information: (212) 227-8080. 


Dec. 3-4— Technology studies seminar, sponsored by 
Gannett Center for Media Studies. Gannett Center, Co- 
lumba Univers New York. Information: (212) 280- 


Dec. 4—Soxthern California Broadcasters Associ- 
ation Christmas party. Hollywood Roosevelt hotel, Los 
Angeles. Information: (213) 460-4481 


Dec. 4-5 Foundation for American Communica- 
tions conterence on Pacific Rim economic questions. 
Conference, "aimed at educating the nations journal 
ists about issues involving news organizations,” is 
funded by arant irom Gannett Foundation, Sheraton 
Miramar Santa Monica, Сай. Information: (219) 851- 


Dec. 5—"Disasters: New Challenges (or the Media” 
and Media and the Law: Your Rights and Restrictions,” 
Seminar sponsored by Associated Pres» Television- 
Radio Association of Califermia-Nevuda. Woodlake 
Resort and convention hotel, Sacramento, Cali. inor- 
imation: (213) 746-1200. 

Dec. 6-8—"Computer Graphics for Design," fall conter- 


фсе sponsored by Pratt Center. Grand HYa New 
York, Information: (314) 741-2850. 


Dec. 7—Technology and audience study group, Spon- 
sored by Gannett Center for Media Studies. Gannett 
Center, Columbia University, New York. Information. 
(212) 280-8392. 


Doc. 7-T1— Video Expo Orlando, sponsored by Know!- 


^ AND I'M SURE I SPEAK FOR ALL OF US WHEN 
I SAY THE RAILROADS SHOULD BE RERREGULATED" 


Some people who claim to speak 
for everybody are really speaking for 
almost nobody. 

For example, theres a group in 
Washington calling itself Consumers 
United for Rail Equity (CURE.) that 
daims to speak for rail shippers. Its a 
group that is supported principally by 
the coal and electric utility industries. 
And its seeking revisions to the Sta; 
Rail Act of 1980 which-if they benefit 
anyone-would primarily benefit the coal 
and utility industries at the expense of 
most other rail customers. 

Most shippers—87 percent of those 
surveyed recently-are happy with the 
improved service and rates brought 
about by deregulation. They don’t want 


© 1987 Asotin of Amencin Ratios 


to see this progress reversed, And they 
certainly don't want to change a law 
that has revitalized ailing railroads and 
made it possible for all railroads to 
become so competitive with each other 
and with other modes of transportation 
that rates overall are dropping. 

Even the rates paid by CURES 
supporters for shipping coal have 
dropped for the past two years. Down 2 
percent in 1985 and down 2.5 percent in 
1986. They're now at their lowest level 
since 1981. In addition, the contracts 
made possible by the Staggers 
Act have assured many utilities 
of low rates in the future. 

Nevertheless, CUR.ES 
members think they can use 


federal and state governments to lower 
their rates still further 

Maybe. But if they win, most other 
rail shippers will lose-through higher 
rates, deteriorating service, and-as 
railroads decline-perhaps through loss 
of service altogether. 

I you're a journalist interested in 
these issues, the Association of American 
Railroads will be happy to provide you 
with more information. Because we 
think that to tell the story properly, you 
need facts, not just assertions. To get the 

facts, write Media Information, 

Association of American Railroads, 
50 F St., N.W, Washington, D.C 
20001, Dept. 710. If you're ona 
deadline, call (202) 639-2555. 


ASSOCIATION OF 
AMERICAN RAILROADS 


чув. 


bs 
Б 8 
Lis £ 


The hardest sof 


You're looking at an EFP camera with a split personality: the new. top- 
of-the-line Sony BVP-350. 

It's the first portable with true "Hard" camera performance. Because it 
has F1.2 optics, a 60dB S/N ratio, and digital zonal registration. Yet it's so light, 
so balanced, so thoughtfully designed. that it's a superb "Soft" camera too. 

The viewfinder rotates 360 degrees and adjusts up, down and side- 
ways—so you don't have to. And its unique “peekaboo” handle means that no 
matter how you shoulder it, there's no blind side. 


Акме 


camera ever. 


But what makes it even more remarkable is that it's 
a perfectly matched companion to the Sony BVP-360. 
Using the same breakthrough FET and Mixed-Field tube 
technology. Even the same circuit boards. And that showsup 
as the best picture performance in history. 

For a good, hard look at the world's most advanced 

"Soft" mee, contact your Sony Broadcast representative. SONY. 

Or cali Sony at 1-800-635-SONY. Broadcast Products 


edge Industry Publications. Buena Vista Palace hotel, 
Lake Buena Vista, Ha. Information’ (914) 328-9157 


Dec, 8— l'ederal Communications Bar Association re- 
cepliondinner honoring FCC Chairman Dennis Pat- 
rick Washington Marriott hotel, Washington. 


рес. 6-9. adio Advertising Bureau day-iong sales 
sem nar, "Нон to Close More Sales.” Doc. 8: Registry 
olei, Los Angeles, and Dec. 9: Wesigete hotel. San 
Diego. informaton: 1-800-232-3131 


Dec. 10-11— Telecommuncatons. Current Develop- 
ments in Polisy and Regulat on.” sponsored by Practis- 
ing Lawe Institute and Federal Communications Bar 
Ausociation. Omni Shoreham, Washington. Intorma- 
tion: (212) 765-5700. 


Dec. 17—Inlernitiona! Radio and Television Society 
Christmas benefit, Waldorl-Astoria. New York 


Dec. 31—Deadjine tor antrias in 13th annual Commen 
ation Awards, sponsored by American Women in Ra- 
dio and Television, tor "posite and realistic portrayal 
af omen in all meia forms." niormaton: (202) 429- 


— сс 
January 1988 


Jan. 8-9 Association of Independent Television Sta- 
fiona annua convention. Theme: “Independents 88 
‘The Real Superstations " Century Paza, Los Angeles. 


Jan. 7-10—internalional winter consumer electronics 
show. sponsored by Eieetronie Industries Associ- 
ation, Las Vegas Convention Center, Las Vegas. Infor- 
mation: (202) 457-4919. 


Jan. 8—Deadiine jor ertries in Alexander Hamilton’ 
Опа State Awards program competition, sponsored 
бу Омо State University institute for Education by 
Radio-Television. Information. (614) 292-0185. 


Jan A2— Iuleruational Radio and Television Society 
Second Tuesday Seminar Viacom Conference Сепіег 
New York, Information: (212) 867-6650. 


чап. 13 aternationat adio and Television Society 
newsmaker uncheon, "Super Bow! XXII. Waidort-As- 
toria, New York 


Jan. 13-—Investigative Reporting: Whats the Neal Sto: 
1Y?" session soon sored by American Women in Radio 
ана Television, Washington chapler. National ASSOCI 
ation or Broadcasters, Washinglon. Information: (202) 
659-3494 


Jan. 15—Cabletelevision Advertising [veau cable 


television political adverising workshop, Caucus 
Room, Cannon House Office Building, Washington 


dan. 15--Deadline for entnes In Angel Awards for 
‘most outelanding oroductions of moral anc/ar soclal 
impact in communicet ons." Beverly Wilshire, Los An- 
geles. Information. (213) 387-7185. 


Jan. 16— Deadline for entries in Broadcast Media 
Awards, sponsored by Intemational Reading Associ- 
tation. Information (302) 731-1600 


dan. 15-17—Alabnma Broadcasters Association win- 
ter convention. Sheraton Capstone, Tuscaloosa, Ala. 


dan. 15-22—National Association of Broadeusters 
joint board meeting. Hawai 


dan. 19-21. Georga Radio-Television Insitute, spon. 
sored by Georgia Association of Broadcasters, Goor. 
gia Center for Continuing Education, Athens, Са, infor 
mation: (404) 993-2200. 


Чап, 20—Federal Conimutications Bur Association 
luncheon Speaker Judge Kenneth Starr US Солто! 
Appeals lor D.C. Circuit. Метот, Washingion 


Jan. 22-23— Colorado Broudcasters Association win 
ter meeting and awards banquet Hyatt Regency Tech 
Center. Denver 


Jan. 23:25. Radio Advertising Bureau's eighth annu 
а Managing Sales Conference. Hyatt Regency, Allan 
ta 


Jan. 24 Ninth annual ACE (awards lor Cable Excel 
lence) Awards presentation, sponsored бу National 
Academy of Cable Programing. on HBO. 


Jan. 24-25—California Broadcasters Association га 
Зо anû television management conference. Palm 
Springs Plaza тле, Рат Springs, Cali 


Jan. 26-28—South Carolina Broadcasters Associ- 
ation winter convention. Columba, S.C. 


Jan. 29-30—Society of Motion Picture and Television. 
Engineers 220 annual television conference. Oprylanc: 
note, Nashville. 


Jan. 30—Deadine for entries in American Diabetes 
Association's lourth annua! national media awarcs rec- 
ognizing excellence in reporting on diabetes Inlorma- 
ion. ADA, 1650 Duke Street, Alexandria, Va., 22314 
(703) 549-1500. 


Jan. 30-Feb. 3. Nationa! Religions Broadeasters 
45th annual convention and exposlon. Sheraton 


Washington, Washington. Information: (201) 428-5400, 


پس 
February 1988‏ 


Feb.2:3—Arizone Cuble Television Association annu- 
al meeting, Hyati Regency. Phoenix, Ariz. Information: 
(602) 257-8338 


Feb. 3-7—imlernational Radio and Television Society 
facultyinausiry seminar Roaseve't hotel, New York 


Feb. 4—International Radio and Television Society 
newsmaker luncheon. Waldorf-Astoria, New York. 


Feb. 9—International Radio and Television Society 
"Secona Tuesday" seminar Viacom Conterence Cen- 
ter, New York 


Feb. 10— Success in Radio and TV Sales,” session 
sponsored by American Women in Radio and Tele 
sion, Washington chapter. National Association ol 
Broadcasters, Washington intormation (202) 65% 
3494 


Feb. 10-12 191h annual Country Radio Seminar, spon 
sored by Country Radio Broadcasters Association. 
Opryland hotel, Nashvite. 


Feb. 12—Southern California Broadeusters Associ- 
ution 3d annua) Sunny Creative Radio Awzrcs presen. 
tation. Registry hotel, Los Angeles, Information: (213) 
466-4481 


Feb. 16-17. Wisconaiu Broadcaslera Association an- 
nual convention and legislative reception Madison, 
Ws. 


Feb. 17-19. Texas Cable Snow sponsored by Teres 
Cable Television Aerociation. Convention Center San 
Antonio, Tex Information: (512) 474-2082 


Feb. 18-19_Broadeast Financial Management Asso- 
ciation board of directors meeting. intercontinental ho: 
tel, San Diego 

Feb. 18-20—Vinoriies and Communications: A Pre. 
view ot Ine Future, ' conference sponsored by Horard 
University Sehooi of Conemsanicaltone. Howard Inn 
ard Blackburn Cerler Howard University campus, 
Washington. Information: (202) 636-7491 

Feb. 24—Federal Cortmunications Bar Association 
luncheon Speaker Diane Kilory FCC general coun- 
sel Marriott, Washington 

Feb. 25-28 NATPE [nlernational 25th annual con- 
vention. George Brown Convention Center, Houston 


Dec. 2-4—Weslem Cable Show sponsored by 
California Coble Television Association. Anaheim 
Convention Center, Ancheim, Calif 

Jan. 6-10,1988—Acvociationof Independent Tole- 
vision Slations annual convention. Century Рага, 
Los Angeles. Future convention: van, 4-8, 1969, 
Century Plaza, Los Angeles 

Jan. 23-25, 1988—Radio Advertising Bureau's 
Managing Sales Conference. Hyatt Regency hotel, 
Alan. 

Jan. 29-30, 1988— Society of Motion Picture and 
Television Engineers 22d annual television confer 
ence, Opryland hotel, Neshville. Future meeting: 
Feb. 3-4. 1989, 51. Francis hotel, San Francisco. 
Jan, 30-Feb. 3, 1988— Natiow! Religious Broad- 
casters 44th annual convention, Sheraton Wasbna- 
ton and Omni Shoreham hotels, Washington. Fu- 
ture meetings Jan 28-Fe 1, 1989, and Jan 27- 
31, 1990, both Sheraton Washington and Omm 
Shoreham, wasting on. 

Feb. 10:12, 1988—19h annual County Radio 
Seminar, sponsored by Country Radio Broadcast- 
ers Association. Opryland hotel, Nashvile 

Feb. 17-19, 1988 Texas Саре Show sponsored 
by Tezos Cable Television Association. Conven- 
ton Center. San Antonio, Tex. 

Feb. 26-28, 1988 NATPE International 25an- 
nual convention, George Brown Convention Cen- 
tot, Houston. Future Convention: Houston, Feb. 24- 
26, 1989. 

March 21-23. Scteliite Broudeazting and Com- 
munication Association trade show Balls, Las 
Negas. Information: (800) 654-6976. 

April 9-12, 1988—National Association of Brood- 
casters 66th annual convention. Las vegas Com- 


MajoraMeetings 


vention Center. Las Vegas. Fulure conventions: Las 
Vegas, April 29-May 2, 1989: Allana, March 31- 
Apri! 3. 1990, Las Vegas, April 13-16, 1891. Las 
Vegas, Apri 11-14, 1992, anc Las Vegas, May 1-4 
Centatve), 1993. 

April 10-12, 1988—Cablereievision Advertising 
Bureau seventh annual сопівгепсе Waicort-As- 
toria, New Yor 

April 10-13, 1988 —Public television annual mem- 
bership meeting ol Public Broadeastiug Service 
end National Association of Public Television Sta- 
tions. Mairot: Crystai Gateway. Ariington, Va. 
April 17-20, 1988—Broadcast Finoneial Manage- 
ment Association 281h annual meeting. Hyail Re 
gency, New Orleans, Future meetings. April 9.12, 
J989, Loews Anatcie Dallas, and April 1820, 
1990, Hyatt Regency, San Francisco. 

April 28-May 3, 19B8- 24 annual WII TV, 
Marches des Intertational Programes des Televi- 
sion, intematonal television program market Pa- 
jas des Festivals, Cannes, France. 

April 30-May 3, 1988—National Cable Television 
Association annual convention. Los Angeles Con- 
vention Center 

May 18:21, 1988— American Association of Ad- 
vertising Agencies ТОП annual convention Green- 
Drier White Sulphur Springs, W Va. 

May 18-22, 1988—National Publie Radio annual 
Public racio conference Adam's Mark hotel, St 
Louis. Information, (202) 822-2000 

dune 8-11, 1988—A merican Women in Radio anil 
Television 37th annual convention. Westin Wiliam 


Penn, Pittsburgh. 


June 6-12, 1968— Broadcast Promotion and Mar 
keting EzecultvesiBroadcast Designers Associ- 
‘ation 32d annual seminar Bonaventure, Los Ange- 
les, Future mesing: June 21-25, 1989. 
Renaissance Center, Detrot. 

June 18-21, 1988-—A merican Advertising Fader- 
‘ation annual convention Century Plaza. Los Ange- 
les. 

duly 31-aug.3—Cuble Television Administration 
‘and Marketing Society 151 annual meeting. Ves- 
lin Copley Place, Boston 

Sept. 7-9, 198. Eastern Cable Show. sponsored 
by Southern Cable Television Association Mer- 
chancise Мап, Allania. 

Sept. 14-17, 1988— Racio '83. sponsored by the 
National Association of Brocdeasters. Washing- 
ion Future meetings: Sep! 13-16, 1989, New Or- 
leans; Sept. 12-18, 1990, Boston. and Sept. 11-14 
(tentative), 1991, San Francisco. 

Sept. 23-27, 1988— nternatiowai Broadcasting 
Convention, Metropole Con'erence ana Exhibition 
Canter, Grand hotel anc Brighton Center. Brighton. 
England, 

Oct. 14-19, 1988—Society of Motion Picture and 
Television Engineers 13017 technical conlerence 
and equipment exhibit Jacob к. Javits Convent on 
Center, New York. Future conference: Ost. 22-27, 
1989, Los Angeles Convention Genter 


Nov. 30-Dec. 3, 1988—Rarhio- Television News Di- 
rectors Association annual iniemational coner- 
ence and exhibition. Convention Center, Las Ve- 
as. Information. (202) 659-6510. 

June 17-23, 1988—1611 International Televison 
Symposium. Montreux, Switzertand 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


کے 


March 1988 


March 3—Iuternasioual Radio aur Television Society 
Gold Medal banquet Recipient: CBS's 60 Minutes. 
Waldorl-Astoria, New York. Information: (212) 867- 
6850. 

March 8—Iuternalionat Radio and Television Society 
‘Second Tuesday seminar, Viacom Conference Center, 
New York, Information: (212) 667-6650. 


March $—"Issues Before the FCC: An Evening with 
Diane Kilory” general counsel. sponsored by Ameri- 
сан Women in Radio and Television, Washington 
cha ler. Nalional Association of Broadcasters, Wash- 
ington, information: (202) 659-3204, 


March 9-10. Aseaciation of National Advertisers 
television advertising workshop, Plaza hotel, New York, 


March 13-15- -Firsi Amendment Congress, organized 
in 1979 by Jean Опо of Society of Professional Journal- 
ists. who is now with Rocky Monntai» Neis. Marriott 
City Center hotel. Denver information. (303) 492-6480, 


March 15 International Radio and Television Soci- 
ety newsmaker luncheon, Waldort-Astoria, New York 


March 17-20—Alpha Epsilon Rho, National Broad- 
сайту Socicty, national convention, Sheraton Center, 
New ‘ork 

March 21-23—Sarellite Broadcasting and Сот! 
cation Association trade show Bally’. Las Vegas. Infor- 
mation, (800) 654-8275. 

March 22—13th annual Commendation Awards cere: 
тогу sponsored by American ошен in Radia and 
Television. Waldorl-Asioria, New York. Information: 
(202) 429-5102 


سک 
April 1988‏ 


April 8-10- Зайсан! Education Amociatior oon- 
vention, Las Vegas. Information (202) 420-5355. 


April 10-12— Cabietelerision Advertising Bureau sev- 
enth annual conference. Waldorf-Astoria, New York. 


April. 10-13—Public television annual membership 
meeting ol ие Broadeasting Service ano National 
Asrociation of Public Telerisiou Stations, Marriott Cry- 
gal Gateway, Arington Va. Iniornation: (202) 790 


April 12—Juternatianal Radio and Television Society 


Second Tuesday seminar, Viacom Conference Center, 
New York Information: (212) 867-6650. 


April 13— Calling ne Snots: Producing ana Directing 
im Washington.” sesson sponsored by Americar 
Women in Radioand Television, Washington chapter. 
National Association of Broadcasters, Washington. In- 
formation: (202) 659-3494 


April 16—20th annual Golden feel Awards ceremony 
sponsored by International Television Association, 
Caesars Palace Las Vegas. Inlormation Kelly J Bell 
(214) 869-1112. 


April 18-20- -Broadeas! Financial Management Asso- 
анон annual meeting. Hyatt Regency New Orleans, 
New Orieans, Information: (312) 296-0200 

April 28-May 324th annual MIP-TV', Marches des 
Tuternational Progranes dea Television, international 
television program market Palais des Festivals. 
Cannes. France. Information: (212) 987-7600. 


April 30-May 3- National Cable Television Associ- 
ation annual convention and exposition. Theme: 

bio B8: Seeing Bling. Los Angeles Convention 
Center. Los Angeles, information: (202) 775-3626. 


سے 
May 1988‏ 


International Pubic Television Screening 

Input 68. sponsored by Philadelphia 1- 
put "vs Alliance, Philadelphia Information: (215) 351- 
5200 


May 10—/ntervational Radio and Television Society 
Second Tuesday seminar, Viacom Conference Center, 
New York. Information: (212) 867-6650. 


May 10-13 Communicaticns £8. supported by Iuter- 
uationel Tetecamninnicationx Uuion and Europeun. 
Economie Cammini National Exhibiton Center Bir- 
mingham, England. information (301) 657-3090. 


May T1— Starring in Your Own Show: Owning and Op- 
erating a Broadcast Station,” session sponsored by 
American Wouren in Radio and Television, Washing- 
fon chapter. National Association of Broadcasters, 
Washington. Information. (202) 659-3494. 

May 17— Iuteruational Radio and Television Society 


Broadcaster о! the Year luncheon Waldorf-Astoria 
New York 


21— American Asgoriation of Advertising 
igeueies 70th annual convention. Greenbrier, White 

Sulphur Springs, W. Ve. 

May 18-22—Netioual Public Radio annual public ra- 

dio conference, Adams Mark hotel. SI Louis Informa- 

"ion: (202) 622-2000, 


From Communications Press 


Cable Programming 
Resource Directory 
1987 


A Guide to Community TV 
Production Facilities and 
Programming Sources & Outlets 


More than 1,000 Community 
Programming Centers 

The CPRD lists cable systems, access stu- 
dios, schools, local governments and oth- 
ег organizations managing local cable 
channels—local origination, P-E-G and 
leased access. Provides detailed informa- 
lion about type and amount of program- 
ming produced and acquired, as well as 
budget, staff, equipment and other data. 


For Independent Producers 


The CPRD lists contacts at local cable 
channels who buy or borrow noncommer- 
cial programming, and program buyers at 
more than 50 national cable programming 
services basic, pay and pay-per-view 


For Local Cable Programmers 


The CPRD lists contacts at associations, 
government agencies and clearinghouses 
from across the U.S. and around tne world 
that lend or rent PSAs, Video News Re- 
leases and longer-length video program- 
ming covering a wide range of topics and 
issues. 


Heated over Hollings 


EDITOR: Broadcasters across the country 
ought to be mad es hell because of the evenis. 
that have occurred on Capitol Hill. 

‘As industry officials probably know full 
well. the Scnate Commerce Commitee 
headed by Emest (Back Door) Hollings in- 
stituted а revenue-raising bill that not only 
codifies the FCC-repealed fairness doctrine. 
but also imposes a 2% to 5% fee or. let's face 
it, tax, on the sale of broadcast properties. 
This doubles for a station owner divesting 
himself of a property held less than three 
years, i.e. it goes to 4%. As if that isn't 
enough, a 1% additional tax would be levied 
if it is found that a seller has violated the 
fairness doctrine. This is. 1 feel, the most 
sneaky, radical, and ludicrous move ever ini- 
tiated in a congressional committee. In view 
of the fact that it is part of a large budgetary 
package for the 1988 fiscal year, chances for 
the bill's veto are abysmal. 


What we have here is a senator who has 
grown extremely impatient with what he 
deems is a wave of station trading that has 
taken place over the past two years. and who 
is determined to take the law into his own 
hands to ensure that it is changed. 

Granted. а reinstatement of the antitraf- 
ficking law is in order. However, the ap- 
proach being used is clearly unethical, 

‘Asan alternative to Senator Hollings’ pro- 
posal, | would see no problem with thc pas- 
sage of an antitrafficking bill. separate from 
the fiscal '88 budget package, which would 
impose a 3% fee only to broadcasters who 
have owned stations for less than three 
years. commensurate with an additional 1% 
fee for violators of the faimess doctrine. In 
short, bona fide broadcasters who are faith- 
fully serving the public interest should, in 
effect, be left unscathed. 

When the full Senate takes up the issue for 
а vote, I trust that broadcasters will make 
their opposition to the legislation known 


Broaccastrg Nov 23 1987 
27 


This unique guide to the field of 
local cable programming will plug 
you in to a national network of pro- 
ducers and programmers. Order 
yours today! 


Only $34.95, prepaid. 
Next edition: 1989 


Broadcasting Book Division 
1705 DeSales Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20036 


Please send. сору(іеѕ) of the CABLE 
PROGRAMMING Resource DIRECTORY 1987. | 
enciose $34.95 per copy. 


Name 

Address 

City St. — Zip_____ 
ى‎ чыт m 


GET W AY 


happily lost on a little-known 
island. The next evening youll slip along the 


ROM, ANC E midnight indigo of the island cliffs, searching the seas for 


Already Sold 
KCBS KYW WBZ KPIX 


Los Angeles Philadelphia Boston San Francisco 


10st ship that sails on the new moon, And you'll leave the 
ands in love with a new part of the world. 

From America to Zanzibar, the GETAWAY hosts will 
ve ће audience the "inside" information on the fun 


їз, the romantic escapes, and the secret hideaways. 


They'll share their enthusiasm and insights, entertaining 
and informing the audience. With them, viewers will meet 
unforgettable people, witness captivating events, and reve! 
in breathtaking beauty. 


Moving, funny, romantic—real: GETAWAY is a first 
class ticket to the top of the ratings. 


For Fall 88 


Produced By 


i couse LOE шй A и пл 303807 


loud and clear. Good Luck !—Joe Stallings, 
East Texas State University, Commerce, 
Тет. 


Comparative complaints 


EDITOR: I was thrilled to read David Tillot- 
son's Ост. 5 "Monday Memo” regarding the 
FCC's comparative process and its inherent 
problems, 

It was a delight to see a Washington attor- 
ney stand up for those of us out here in the 
real world of radio broadcasting who are 
continually looking for unique business op- 
portunities in various markets. Having been 
through a hearing process that had many 
of the elements of attorney Tillotson's syn- 
opsis, | can attest 10 the reality of his com- 
ments. 

From an insiders point of view, what start- 
ed out as a good idea on paper by the FCC 
has been turned into a gamble and a strategy 
game that is indisputably unfair and corrupt. 
My previous comparative hearing ordeal 
ended in a merging of the three parties in- 
volved. While I certainly agreed to the terms 
of the merger, the FCC, in actuality, twisted 
my arm. It's the system that did itand it took 
a lot of courage for Mr. Tillotson to speak out 
against the process, Sure, he and his partners 
stand to gain from the unfair standards that 
have been “accepted” so far, but that certain- 
ly doesn't mean they are fair and correct. 

It seems to me that the FCC must quickly 
evaluate its procedure for determining who 
will be awarded a broadcasting license and 
in that process jt must open its eyes to 
the dirty tricks and tactics that go on in this 
most unfair procedure. Serving the public 
interest cannot be decided on strategy that is 
contrived to win a license. With common 
sense prevailing, the FCC should review 
what has happened and correct this obvious 
blunder—Howard M. Ginsberg, partner, 
general manager, WKANAM)-WaQ¥(Fit) Sara- 
toga Springs, N.Y. 


Spector memorial 


EDITOR: | read with interest your “Sugges- 
tion Box" editorial in your Oct. 26 issue. It is 
heartening to see others recognize Beryl 
Spector's enormous legacy of contributions 
to the Broadcast Promotion and Marke 
Executives. Her spirit, energy and enthusi- 
asm helped move us forward in so many 
areas. 

‘That is why, very soon after her death, last 
year's BPME President Judy Horan immedi- 
ately pen and the BPME board unani- 
mously enacted, a change of name for the 
BPME AERho scholarship. As you know, 
the $2,000 annual grant is the largest single 
scholarship administered by the National 
Broadcasting Scholastic Honorary Society. 
Tt is henceforth known as ће BPME/AERho 
Beryl Spector Memorial Scholarship. 

This was an appropriate move by BPME 
because not only was Beryl concerned about 
the scholarship and young people, but be- 
cause her prime focus was on sharpening 
BPME's emphasis on improving profession- 
al education at all levels. Thanks to her that 
will remain our number one priority, 

We feel that this lasting tribute will help us 


focus on Beryl and her achievements, and 
will keep her spirit alive for new generations. 
of young, aspiring promotion and marketing 
professionals. 

Tax deductible contributions in Beryl's 
name to the scholarship fund are accepted at 
any time by the BPME Foundation, a non- 
profit organization that administers the 
Scholarship—Lance Webster, executive di- 
rector, Broadcast Promotion & Marketing 
Executives, Lancaster, Pa. 


Call concern 


EDITOR: In the Oct. 26 issue of BROADCAST- 
ING you have an editorial and an article on 
page 56 devoted to the FCC's recent decision 
to drop a proposal that it abolish its geo- 
graphic division of leters—W's. for 
those east of the Mississippi River and K's 
for those west of the river. 

There's really little to rejoice about in this 
decision. 

The FCC long ago gave up any pretense of 
regulating station identifications, the prima- 
Ty purpose of call letters. In the Chicago arca 
there are 20 Class B FM stations. Eleven of 
these identify either primarily or almost ex- 
clusively with slogans, such as B-96, Praise- 
92, Q-101, FM-100, Lite Rock 102, Z-95, 
The Loop 98, rather than their assigned call 
letters. Many of these including WLUP (The 
Loop 98), wKQx (Q-101), and wLoo (FM 
100), make only onc very quict, correct 
identification near the top of each hour, In 
between, most of the stations bombard us 
with as many as 20 identifications using slo- 
gans rather than call letters. 

Just now, 7-95 (мүт?) is having a contest 
in which listeners are called at random and 
are asked to name the call letters of their 
favorite station. The station clearly says that 
the call letters are Z-95. They never even 
suggest that wYTZ is the real, correct answer. 

And, on the AM band, weze frequently 
states: “You are listening to COZY. " A lot of. 
people know that "С" call letters are assigned 
exclusively to Canada and Cuba. Where 
does COZY fit in with either "W' or ‘К’? 

A local TV station identifies itself as TV- 
38. How many stations are on channel 38 in 
the U.S.? More than 10. 

And perhaps, even better, I recently spent 
four hours listening to America’s newest 
shortwave radio station, WCSN Boston. Dur- 
ing that time they never once identified the 
station as wCSN, and, perhaps, to top it all, 
they use two totally different slogans to iden- 
tify the station; one for Sundays, and one for 
the other six days of the week 

‘And then your article on page 56 men- 
tioned that rating services were opposed to 
the possibility of eliminating the W and К 
differentiation. What do they use for identi- 
fications in markets such as Chicago where 
call letters for many of the stations are prob- 
ably unknown by most of the populace? 

The point of all this is that the FCC closed 
the bam door well after the horse escaped. 
By totally ignoring what was actually hap- 
pening in the marketplace, they have al- 
lowed an incredibly chaotic, duplicative 
{how many FM-100’s docs ‘America have?) 
system of station identification to take root 
and flourish.—Joseph B. Martin, North Chi- 
садо, Hl. 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


The Filth Estate 


Founder and Editor 
Sol тазлоп (1904.1982) 


1705 DeSales Sree N Wf, Washington 2006 
ud 


Lawrence 8. Taishot, pubishet 
Editori 


Donald V. West, managing edict 
Mark K. Miller (operations) Harry Jessell (vashington) 
Penny (national news), 


or 
Sukow (technology), 
stat writers 

Anthony Sender. systems manager 
Peter D; Lambert, Kasoy Vennet, store! dcnctnts 

Todd F. Bowie, Ed Kaitz, producti 
‘Senior Edioria! Consultant 
Edwin H. James (Washington) 


Broadcasting  Cablecasting 
Yearbook 


os bend Seyler, тегере 
Ша. Con, дейи on 
D. Monroe, Bruce E. Jo 


Bock Division 
David Dietz, manage: 


‘Thomas 


гати 
Mashinglon 
Robert (Skip) Tash, Soumnern sajez manager. 
Doris Kelly, sales service manager 
Med Robertia, cassed acverrsing. 
New York 
David Berlyn, sonior sales manager 
мот, David Frankel, sajes maragers 


Hollywood 
Тип Thometr, salos manager 
Circulation. 

Kwontin K. Keenan, ciiculattn manager 
Patricia Waldron, dara entry managot 
Jenkins, Debra De Zam, 

‘Voseph копот. 
Production 


Harry Stevens, production m 
Rick Higgs, droaucion assistant 


Administration 


David Н. Whitcombe, vico prosidantoperations 
Philippa E. Beucher, controner 
Tracy Henry, assisiar controter 
Albert Anderson, о7се manager 
Newburn 


Bureaus 
New York: 630 Third Avenue, 10017 
"2830 


ns: 212-599- 
Stephen eto, associate вайо 
incent M. Ditinge, senior dior radio. 
© 


dure Butler, advertising assistam. 
Hollywood: 1000 Neth Ving Siret, 90028 


Sandra Ksvater, erora acenso ERES 


ster Advertising Representatives 
Europe and United Ringtone Lucassen hiamaton 
vend Lucase 


‘Goren ЕЛГА 
hone, 


Broadcasting Publications Inc. 
А Times Miror Business Publicaion 


^ commentary on television adw 


The case for moving 
to cost-per-shopper 
in media planning 


“The biggest, most fundamental change 
in marketing in decades." "А shift in the 
future from mass marketing to micro 
marketing." "The first rumblings of a 
seismic change that could eventually re- 
define mass marketing in the U. S." 

If we believe half of what we hear and 
read lately, the day is coming: when ad- 
vertisers will be planning and buying me- 
dia оп a cost-per-targel-customer or 
cost-per-shopper basis. It’s obvious that 
major changes are in the works regard- 
ing how companies market and advertise 
their products and services. 

Since the early days of television, ad- 
vertisers have planned their national 
campaigns to reach the masses. Their 
Strategy was directed toward selling 
their product to one homogeneous group 
of unified purchasers, or so it seemed, 
This concept is gradually giving way toa 
different, more specialized approach, 
and for good reasons: competitive pres- 
sures and availability of better consumer 
research. 

Hardly a week goes by withouta lead- 
ing trade magazine featuring anarticle or 
evenan entire issue on the subject of this 
shift in emphasis from national to region- 
al or market-by-market advertising. 
Likewise, the consumer press has made 
similar observations with cover stories 
about ‘‘Marketing’s New Look” which 
appeared in Business Week regarding 
Campbell Soup. Recently, another food 
giant, General Foods, had its chief exec- 
utive officer quoted at length about his 
company's move toward regional mar- 
keting. 

Less often do we hear or see market- 
ing and averting described in words 
such as universal, homogeneous, macro 
and mass. But rather, we're hearing de- 
scriptions such as specialized, regional, 
local and micro. 

The changes in marketing and adver- 
tising thinking are partly a reaction to, 
and a reflection of, changes in consumer 
behavior. This behavior is a result large- 
ly of increasingly diversified life styles 
and attitudes are well-documented 
trends. 

Certainly the foreign advertisers— 
with their understanding of marketing in 
the multicultural, multilanguage Euro- 

n continent—have exhibited market- 
ing concepts that focus on special niches 
and groups of people, These same for- 
eign advertisers have tapped into a mar- 
ket-by-market approach here and have 
been successful in garnering American 


Dick Williams is vice president, director of 
marketing, of Katz American Television in 
New York He joined Kalz in 1977 as 
director of special projects. He was 
named director of market development, 
East for PROBE/Markeling in 1979 and 
promoted to general manager in 1981. He 
was appointed a vice president in 1982 
and to his present job in 1904. Belore 
joining Katz, Williams was vice president, 
Eastern sales manager for Top Market 
Television in New York. His broadcast 
background aiso includes positions as 
general manager of Kaiser Broadcasting 
Spot Sales in New York and vice 
president, New York sales manager of 
Metro TV Sales. 


dollars. American automobile, food and 
clothing manufacturers may havc 
learned something from their overseas 
competition. 

The availability of more tightly de- 
fined psychographic research that at- 
tempts to pinpoint very specific differ- 
ences in decisions people make (regard- 
ing products they je media they use 
and activities they engage in) is also 
causing advertisers to question the feasi- 
bility of their current marketing and me- 
dia strategics and to change their meth- 
ods of evaluation. 

Advertisers are now learning how bet- 
ter to interpret the vast quantity of infor- 
mation available to them through re- 
search and computer technology, such 
as the increasingly used Universal Prod- 
uct Code. This will obviously improve 
the advertisers’ ability to target their 
customers and should substantially 
change the way many of these compa- 
nies conduct their national advertising. 

With all due respect to American ad- 
vertisers, one has to believe they have 
been aware for some time that the same 
advertising message on network televi- 
sion or in a national magazine would 
have a significantly different impact in 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 
E) 


ertising from Dick Williams, Katz American Television, New York 


different sections of the country and 
even in various neighborhoods within 
the same market or city. 

Furthermoree, every major national 
advertiser has had to recognize the 
abundance of vicwing choices currently 
available to the television audience com- 
parcd to a few ycars ago. 

Like it or not, network television can 
no longer be relied upon to reach the 
entire nation as it was a few years ago. 

This raises some interesting questions 
for people in media, including those of 
us involved with national spot televi- 
sion. National advertisers are striving to 
measure specialized regional and local 
sales of their product or service. Isn't it. 
logical to change from buying on cost- 
per-shopper or per-target-customer? 

The medium of spot television has cer- 
tain advantages over other media in 
terms of quarter-hour audience mea- 
surements and its ability to report almost 
any demographic the advertiser wants. 
Peoplemeters are proliferating and 
should result in more accurate identifi- 
cation of television audiences. 

There are two areas where Katz 
American Marketing is intensifying its 
efforts: psychographic profiles data and 
consumer shopping and spending habits 
опа market-by-market basis. Two of the 
research companies working in this area 
are Marshall Marketing and Leigh 
Stowell. Marshall Marketing has recent- 
ly contracted with SRI to provide value 
and life-style (VALS) information to 
each of its television stations. It's not 
hard to predict that research by such 
services will be getting increased use on 
the national advertising level and com- 
plement the demographic information 
currently used by advertisers to help 
them plan media strategy. 

The more quickly stations become 
armed with research and attempt to an- 
swer not only how their audience views 
television but also how it shops and pur- 
chases, the better equipped we will be to 
help the advertiser to target his custom- 
ers. 

If we are witnessing the biggest, most 
fundamental change in marketing in dec- 
ades, advertisers should be mindful of 
how spot television can help them make 
the transition more easily and success- 
fully. 

Our mediumis still bought and sold on 
an individual market basis; still provides 
great selectivity and flexibility, and per- 
mits various rating levels by market, ac- 
cording to the needs of the specific prod- 
uct or service. We offer the most power- 
ful communications medium yet devised 
by man. And, lest we forget, itis still free 
to the viewing public across the country. 


THE NUNT FO! 


MENBSISNENHS 
НІ MEN 18-49 


PROGRAM 


SEA HUNT 487 
D. C. FOLLIES 460 
COMEDY CLUB 452 
WE GOT IT MADE 369 
MARBLEHEAD MANOR 336 
NEW MONKEES 325 
OUT OF THIS WORLD 300 
BUSTIN’ LOOSE 295 
SHE'S THE SHERIFF 292 
DOM DeLUISE SHOW 291 


12 MEN 18-49 


PROGRAM 


SHE'S THE SHERIFF 


SEA HUNT 

D, C. FOLLIES 

COMEDY CLUB 

WE GOT IT MADE 
MARBLEHEAD MANOR 

OUT OF THIS WORLD 

DOM OeLUISE SHOW 

BUSTIN’ LOOSE 

YOU CAN'T TAKE IT WITH YOU 


SSRN NPN, 
ioi U KR OO ia 


The most efficient way to reach 
men, among all the top new 
once-a-week half-hours. 


MGM/UA TELECOMMUNICATIONS, INC. 


could start in another field at what a teacher 
earns after 15 vears on the job. 
Thats why America desperately needs teachers. Оле 
million teachers between nowand 1990. By every meas- 
ure, we're going to be several hundred thousand short. 

E ‘ine if we were talking about a shortage of 
physicians and surgeons. A massive teacher shortage 

аз just as serious consequences on our society. 
Who will be there to prepare future generations to 
enter all the professions if there aren't enough 
teachers to do the job? 

Shortages already exist all across this country, 
because for years college students in droves havechosen 
not to become teachers. In 1967, 22% of all college tresh- 
men planned on teaching. By 1985 only 6% of the 
students polled said they wanted to teach. 

What keeps college students from 
wanting to be teachers? 

First and foremost, pay. 


N ot likely. Not if you're a college graduate who 


Ded 


The Subject is Excellence. 


Would you: 


Right now there are four million Americans certified 
to teach whoarent in the classroom. And one-quarter 
ofall education graduates decided never to seek teach- 
ing jobs. Countless more considered education but 
decided not to make it their major 

America has lost a generation of teachers. To fill 
in the gaps, schools are using teachers out of the fields 
of expertise or uncertified teachers to make sure class- 
rooms aren't empty. This severely hurts the education 
process and masks the severity of the teacher shortage. 

Inarecent gallup poll, commissioned by the NEA, 
80% of the American people favor higher teacher sala- 
ries. Almost half of those surveyed —41%— said they 
are willing to pay higher taxes to see that teachers are 
paid properly. 

Americans want it. America desperately 
needs it. 
Qualified teachers, paid professional 
wages. So that becominga teacher is once 
again a respected and valued choice. 


© 1987 Navonal Education Assciaon 


Blue ribboners go to work on TV's future 


Committee of industry representatives 
holds first meeting at FCC to 

come to grips with problems 

in selecting advanced TV system 


The FCC's efforts to find a terrestrial 
broadcasting system and cable delivery 
system in high-definition television in- 
tensified last week with thc first meeting 
of a “blue ribbon pane!" on advanced 
television systems (ATV). Many of the 
top executives in the television industry 
are committee members grappling with 
an issue that, FCC Chairman Dennis 
Patrick said, ‘‘will, eventually, dramati- 
cally alter the face of television.” 

Among the luminaries present for the 
Nov. 17 meeting in Washington were 
Thomas Murphy, chairman of Capital 
Cities/ABC. Laurence Tisch, president 
of CBS, and Thomas Rogers acting as 
proxy for Robert Wright, president and 
chief exective officer of NBC. They 
were joined by chief executives from 
seven station groups and the cable, con- 
sumer receiver and other TV-related in- 
dustries, The blue ribbon committce's 
chairman is Richard Wiley, of the Wash- 
ington law firm of Wiley, Rein and Field- 
ing. Wiley and E. William Henry, chair- 
man of the Advanced Television Sys- 
tems Committee (ATSC), аге both 
former FCC chairmen chosen to sit with 
the group. 

At the first meeting there was consid- 
eration of a timetable for the commit- 
tee’s first year of existence and organi- 
zational details including the roles of the 
three ATV subcommittees. Also dis- 


cussed were the possible need for budge- 
tary and voting procedures for efficient 
operation of the committee. Of the com- 
mittee's mounting tasks, Wiley said: 
“This is a challenging assignment, but 
one | feel this committee can accom- 
plish." 

Patrick was in attendance to tell the 
committce members what the FCC 
wants and expects from the group. “J 
cannot emphasize strongly enougl 
Patrick said, “how vital your efforts will 
be in assisting the commission in ensur- 
ing that American viewers enjoy the best 
television service possible and that this 
country continues to play a leadership 
role in the global information ccono- 
perm 


y 
The chairman laid out an ambitious 
list of issues, calling on thc committee, 
by the end of 1988, to provide the FCC 
with information needed to: “1) estab- 
lish general technical parameters that 
will significantly narrow the scope, and 
direct the focus, of future research and 
development efforts by domestic and 
foreign manufacturers; 2) relax our pre- 
sent freeze on assignment and use of 
spectrum as much as possible, and, 3) 
establish a tentative timetable for imple- 
menting an advanced broadcast televi- 
sion service." To help keep this sched- 
ule, he set May 17, 1988, as the due date 
for the first set of recommendations 
from the committee, which will deal with 
the necessary specirum reservation 
needed for advanced TV systems. 

For those first committee recommen- 
dations to the commission, Wiley set a 


Breadcasiing Nov 23 1987 


goal of four months for compietion of a 
first draft. The blue ribbon committee 
would then meet again by April to dis- 
cuss the report before it is sent to the 
FCC. “This schedule may be optimis- 
tic," Wiley said, “but I think we've i- 
dentified some directions in which to 
proceed... I'm confident we can get the 
Job done.” 

But Joel Chaseman, president of the 
Post-Newsweek Stations, responded: “I 
am concerned about these six-month 
and one-year deadlines." He worried 
that hasty resolution of the issues Pat- 
rick listed would "shortchange the 
American public." Instead, he urged a 
slower pace. ‘We have just got to take 
time to do it well," Chaseman зг 

Patrick replied by saying: "We have 
absolutly no intention of rushing to judg- 
ment on this issue.” Mass Media Bureau 
Chief Alex Feiker said that the timetable 
was not going to shortchange the Ameri- 
can public and that the issues relating to 
spectrum had to be resolved soon so the 
commission could accommodate other 
services requesting it. “Holding spec- 
trum in reserve fore ver is not cost-free, 
Felker said. An ex_officio committee 
member, the State Deparment’s Diana 
Lady Dougan, said that she was 
“pleased with the faster timetable" be- 
cause when arguing the American case 
international forums, itis best to have 
its positions defined as soon as possible. 
She said that because many of the com- 
panies represented on the committee do 
business internationally, they should 
recognize the trade and commerce ad- 


= TOP OF THE WEEK І = 


Around the blue ribbon roundtable 


Chairing the FCC's advanced television meeting of VIP's from 
every comer of the television industry was Richard E. Wiley (1) 
former FCC chairman and partner of Washington law firm, Wiley, 
Rein & Fielding 


Other attendees were (l-r): (2) Burton Staniar, Westinghouse 
Broadcasting Corp.; Laurence Tisch, CBS; Neil Vander Dussen, 
Sony Corp. of America; (3) James Kennedy, Cox Enterprises Inc. 
Daniel F. Minihan, North American Philips Co.; Thomas S. Mur- 
phy, Capital Cities’ ABC; Gary Bryson, representing Trygve Myh- 
ren, American TV and Communications: (4) Danie! Gold, Knight- 
Ridder; Robert Hansen, Zenith Corp. E. William Henry, Ad. 
vanced Television Systems Committee; (5) Joel Chaseman, 
Post-Newsweek; Bruce Christensen, Public Broadasting Serv 
ice; (6) Joseph Collins, Time Inc.'s Home Box Office; Allen Coo- 


per of Motion Picture Association of America representing Robert 
Daly, Warner Brothers; James Dowdle, Tribune Broadcasting Co. 
Also sitting at the table, but not pictured above were: FCC Chair- 
man Dennis Patrick; Thomas Rogers representing Robert Wright 
NBC; Derk Zimmerman, Fox Broadcasting Co.; F. Jack Pluckhan, 
Quasar, Ward Quaai, The Ward L Quaal Co.; Joseph Flaherty, 
CBS Operations and Engineering and chairman of ATV commit- 
tee's subcommittee; Irwin Dorros, Bell Communictions Re- 
search, and chairman of the systems subcommittee, James Tiet- 
jen, The David Sarnoff Research Center, and chairman of the 
implementation subcommittee; Alex Felker. FCC Mass Media 
Bureau chief; Ambassador Diana Lady Dougan, State Depart- 
ment; Alfred Sikes, National Telecommunications and Informa- 
tion Agency. Dougan and Sikes are ex officio members of the 
blue ribbon committee. 


Biosdcasiing Nov 23 1987 


ч 


vantages in gu ahead start. “Time is 
going to be slipping away because others 
will be preempting us,” Dougan said. 

Much of the discussion was of an or- 
ganizational nature because “we all 
need to understand how this commi 
is going to function,” Wiley s 
said that the primary concern will be to 
concentrate on the three issues raised by 
Patrick in order to“ ‘give the government 
the best we can,” 

Wiley told the committee that the 
planning subcommittee, chaired by 
CBS's Joseph Flaherty, vice president 
and general manager, engineering, “will 
bear the primary initial burden." It will 
do the groundwork for the first set of 
recommendations to be submitted to the 
FCCin May. Each of the subcommittees 
will be divided into “working parties." 
He emphasized the already announced 
fact that the subcommittees are open to 
all interested parties and the overall 
committee's encouragement that con- 
tasting viewpoints should be repre- 
sented in the working parties. 

Each of the subcommittees will have 
twa vice chairmen in addition to the al- 
ready announced chairmen: Flaherty; 
Irwin Dorros of Bell Communications 
Research (Bellcore) for the systems sub- 
committee, and James Tietjen of the Da- 
vid Sarnoff Reseach Center for the im- 
plementation subcommittee. The vice 
chairmen will be announced later along 
with a chairman andl two vice chairmen 
for each working pai 

High defnkion Fecinology * ‘is upon 
us," Flaherty told the committee. “This 
new technology is so fundamental that it 
will touch every aspect of audio-visual 
communications." He announced the 
structure of his planning subcommittee, 
which will have six working groups. 
Along with responsibility for different 
aspects of the first recommendation re- 
port on spectrum, those groups will de- 
velop specifications which wil! then be 
submitted for testing by the systems 
committee. The six working parties will 


No discouraging words on HDTV, but. 


First comments show agreement 
оп goal of advanced television 

but difference on approach; 
compatibility important to most; 
broadcasters seek hold on spectrum 


A broad consensus of broadcasters and 
cablecasters told the FCC last weck it 
was all for most aspects of its advanced 
television (ATV) notice of inquiry—in 
popular parlance, high-definition TV. 
First and foremost, all agreed that some 
advanced standard should be reached. 
Of primary concern to broadcasters: 
that they not be left behind by cable, sat- 
ellites and other program delivery meth- 
ods. 

A secondary consensus developed be- 
hind the notion that any terrestrial ATV 
system be compatible with present 
NTSC receivers. And among broadcast- 


1 TOP OF THE WEEK 


= 


cover: technology assessment; testing 
and evaluation; cable and fiber optics 
technology for interface to broadcast- 
ing; spectrum utilization and alterna- 
lives; consumer economic impact, and 
subjective assessment which will evalu- 
ate testing procedures. 

Of the six. Flaherty said the last three 
are of the greatest importance because 
they will deal with how the public per- 
ceives and will be affected by advanced 
TV systems. He stressed that one of the 
strengths of the planning subcommit- 
tee’s structure is its flexibility, which 
would allow for added issues and work- 
ing parties when needed. He said that 
the subcommittee would be looking 
closely at the work of standards organi- 
zations such as the ATSC and the Socie- 
ty of Motion Picture and Television En- 
gineers. 

The goal of the systems committee, 
Dorros said, is “to produce a standard 
for transmission." It will receive the 
specifications of what is needed and de- 
sired as far as quality and spectrum lir 
tations from the planning committee, 
and will use them to determine which 
proposed systems to test and evaluate 
further. “These groups will need to 
work together and may even be populat- 
ed by cross membership,” he said. The 
subcommittee’s four working groups 
will deal with technology, systems eval- 
uation, economic assessment and stan- 
dards. 

The heaviest work will come later for 
Tietjen’s implementation group which 
so far has only two working parties 
planned. One will look into FCC policy 
and regulation changes that might be 
needed before a transmission system 
can be approved. The second group will 
study implementation scenarios for spe- 
cific transmission systems. 

The government charter authorizing 
the committee states that representa- 
tives of the FCC must be present at all 
meetings of the blue ribbon committee, 
the subcommittees and the working 


ers, there was agreement that presently 
unused UHF spectrum, coveted by such 
rival services as land-mobile and digital 
radio, should be set aside for terrestrial 
TV. either for a two-channel HDTV sys- 
tem in the near future or a more ad- 
vanced broadband system further 
ahead. 

“Broadcasters should not be relegat- 
ed to second-class status in the video 
marketplace," said CBS in its com- 
ments—a proposition upon which all 
three major networks were united. "We 
urge the commission's rules on broad- 
cast transmission, spectrum allocation 
and allotment not be allowed to impair 
the opportunity of broadcasters to im- 
plement ATV systems of competitive 
quality," said ABC. Terrestrial broad- 
casters “must be able to maintain their 
competitive position...delivering video 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 
ar 


groups. Felker and Thomas Stanley, the 
FCC's chief engineer, will be the pri- 
mary FCC contacts. All meetings will be 
open to the public with advance notice 

hem published in the Federal Re, 
ister. Official records of the commit- 
tee's proceedings will be open to the 
public through the Mass Media Bureau, 
which Felker said, would act as a "'clear- 
inghouse" for ATV committee informa- 
tion. “At least for the time being," he 
said, correspondence to the committee 
should be sent there. 

In the past "a consensus process has 
been followed” for reports from similar 
committees to the commission, Felker 
said. He encouraged the ATV commit- 
tee to also try to come to a consensus 
parete possible because it tends 

“lead to a good set of recommenda- 
i ` However, if opinions prove to 
contrast too sharply, he said that it will 
be the committee's responsibility to for- 
mulate a voting procedure. 

A budgetary system for the committee 
may also have to be devised. Felker said 
that a great deal of clerical support will 

rovided by the FCC, but that some 
FI е financial burden would have to be 
provided by the committee's participat- 
ing companies. Wiley said that some ex- 
penses the group might incur would in- 
clude travel, hiring a full-time secretary, 
statistical analyses and possible inde- 
pendent testing not available through 
ATSC or other standards organizations. 
ABC's Murphy was the first to pledge 
the support of his company to a commit- 
tee budget and several others quickly 
followed. Wiley said that by the absence 
of opposition, he “would take it as a 
mandate” that he should begin working 
on the procedures for establishing a 
budget. The central question seems to be 
whether the amount needed will be small 
enough to ask for an equal contribution 
from each company or if a formula will 
be developed to adjust the size of the 
contribution according to the size of the 
company. 


images to the home, or free service to 
the public or local broadcasting may be- 
come a second-class service or disap- 
pear altogether,” said NBC. 

The Public Broadcasting Service ech- 
oed the views of its commercial counter- 
parts, saying that "the American 1 people 
would lose something essential" if ter- 
restrial TV were to become a secondary 
video service. "Broadcasting, particu- 
larly public broadcasting, deserves to 
share in the best the future can offer," 
PBS said. 

Two ways of attacking the NTSC 
compatibility issue were suggested by 
CBS. Either the FCC could adopt a one- 
channel, compatible system—such as 
the experimental advanced compatible 
television system (ACTV) proposed by 
NBC and developed by the David Sar- 
noff Research Center—or by setting 


TOP OF THE WEEK 


aside enough spectrum for present TV 
stations ‘Чо accommodate (ће simul- 
casting of NTSC and high-definition pro- 
graming, at least during a transition peri- 
od." CBS said it understood the FCC's 
concern for “the public's investment in 
NTSC sets,” but urged the commission 
not to rule out the second option 
taking a narrow view of ‘compatibil- 
dy. " 

Not surprisingly, NBC praised the 
one-channe! option. [t stated that any 
approved system should fit into 6 mhz to 
preserve the compatibility of consumer 
sets yet be capable of evolving into a 
more advanced system in the distant fu- 
ture. The report of the Sarnoff Research 
Center said that АСТУ fits the bill: “It 
promises significantly improved images, 
1s deliverable over air, cable, tape, disk, 
satellite...is receiver-compatible, and 
can be upgraded to HDTV performance 
with additional bandwidth." 

"Accordingly," said NBC, "spec- 
trum must be preserved to permit transi- 


tion to a system with greater signal сп- 
hancement in the future." The network 
claimed that true HDTV is certain to be 
а reality one day and that protection of 
spectrum now will "assure that terrestri- 
al broadcasters can provide the benefit 
done future developments (о the pub- 
lic." 

The only other group owner endorsing 
a specific transmission system was 
American Family Broadcast Group, 
owner of six TV stations, which came 
out for ACTV. NBC's one-channel sys- 
tem "shows great promise of meeting 
Ше теше, and perhaps ultimate, 
needs of American broadcasters," ac- 
cording to American Family. Concerned 
with the expense to both consumers and 
broadcasters that could be required if a 
broadband system such as NHK's Muse 
were adopted, the group said that it had 
made a "substantial financial commit- 
ment" to ACTV and encouraged other 
broadcasters to do the same. 

The Tribune Broadcasting comments 


tional 6-mhz UHF and VHF channets. 


those with HDTV sets. 


today's 6-mhz television channels. 


to actual working systems, 


broadcasting to become available 


as Narrow-Muse. 


both have hardware. 


NHK fields compatible version of HDTV 


‘The Japanese Broadcasting Corp. (NHK), in comments to the FCC last week, out- 
lined two variations ol ils Muse system that would permit stations to broadcast high- 
definition television signals compatible with conventional NTSC sels via conven- 


The transmission schemes, dubbed Narrow-Muse and Muse-6, would degrade the 
HDTV pictures considerably, but would preserve HDTV's wide (16:5) aspect ratio for 


The Muse-6 and Narrow-Muse broadcasts could be received on NTSC sets, 
although the aspect ratio would be clipped to NTSC's 4:3. Also, Narrow-Muse's 
compatibility would require a set-top converter. 

The proposals, the heart of NHK's submission on the FCC's advanced television 
systems inquiry, are apparently its response to U.S. broadcasters’ demand for an 
HDTV transmission system that is compatible not only with NTSC sets but also with 


Prior to tne filing, the only HDTV broadcast system NHK had on the table was full 
Muse, which requires 9-mnz channels. Like Na/row-Muse, Muse signals would be 
receivable оп NTSC sets, bul only after the signals are passed through a set-lop 
converter. In the filing, NHK said such conver 

The filing gave no indication about how cose either Muse-6 or Narrow-Muse were 


^| don't know that they have actually tested it as they have [full] Muse," said 
Stephen Sharp, NHK's Washington attorney. "But | think it is a very real capability. 

From a picture-quality standpoint, Narrow-Muse is superior to Muse-6, According 
toNHK, Muse-6 is "slightly better" than NTSC, while Narrow-Muse is "better." By way 
of comparison, NHK deemed full Muse "much better” than NTSC. 

As it made clear in its filing, NHK believes the U.S. should shuffle its broadcast 
spectrum to create 9-mhz channels jor Muse broadcasts. "It should be emphasized 
that any use of 6 mhz transmission bandwidth places restrictions on picture quality 
improvement,” NHK said. “Furthermore, an excessive reliance on bandwidth com- 
pression will double receiver costs, and is therelore undesirable 

But NHK said Narrow-Muse and Muse-6 "would serve to facililate а smooth 
transition to full Muse" because it would encourage broadcasters to star! producing 
programing in HDTV while waiting for the 9-mhz channels necessary for full Muse 


NHK proposed one other “transitional” transmission system in its filing: Muse-9. 
Like full Muse, it would require 9-mhz channels but, unlike full Muse, it could be 
received on NTSC sets without a converter. It would deliver the same picture quality 


NHK's proposais are similar to NBC's advanced compatible television (ACTV) 
system for broadcasting HDTV, which has been demonstrated in computer simula- 
tions early last month. NBC hopes to have a working ACTV system by mid-1988. 
Evaluations and comparisons of the NBC and NHK approaches will have to wait untii 


"S would cost less than $50. 


Broadcasting Now 23 1987 


were typical of those by TV groups, urg- 
ing "the commission to proceed cau- 
tiously in consideration of technical 
standards, interference criteria and, 
most importantly. spectrum realloca- 
tion, until substantially more data is 
available concerning the various ad- 
vanced television systems now under 
development." Of prime importance, 
Tribune said, is “that whatever ATV 
system ultimately is adopted should be 
receivable on existing NTSC receivers 
with minimal or no degradation in the 
quality of the picture,” 

Post-Newsweek Stations said that “if 
АТУ augmentation spectrum is needed, 
the commission must act quickly to se- 
cure it before it is irretrievably comi 
ted to other uses." According to George 
N. Gillett Jr., owner of 11 TV stations, 
broadcasters deserve that spectrum be- 
cause of their role in local public infor- 
mation. "Despite scattered exceptions, 
the fact is that television stations alone 
provide local video information to 
American viewers," Gillette wrote. A 
similar point was made by the Radio- 
Television News Directors Associ: : 
"Harm would inevitably result їп a dimi 
nution of the amount and quality of local 
and national news, information and pub- 
lic affairs programing available free of 
charge to the American public.” 

Most broadcast groups stated that 
they supported the position of the Asso- 
cialion of Maximum Service Telecast- 
ers. AMST said that “developmental, 
performance, spectrum and interference 
issues cannot be separated. Conse- 
quently, the spectrum requirements for 
АТУ cannot be determined until candi- 
date ATV systems have been tested.” 
That recommendation conflicts with the 
announced timetable for a spectrum re- 
port from the FCC's ATV committee, 
which is due in only six months so that 
the commission can begin considering 
other proposals for UHF spectrum (see 
page 35). 

One of those spectrum competitors, 
the Land Mobile Communications 
Council, filed statements reiterating a 
n made during congressional 

earings (BROADCASTING, Oct, 12) that 
private radio services need the fallow 
UHF spectrum more than broadcasters, 
and that an acceptable ATV system for 
American consumers can be contained 
within 6 mhz. In its comments, it said 
that NBC's ACTV "demonstrates that 
such systems are workable.” 

Other spectrum rivals were those ad- 
yocating advanced audio technologies. 
National Public Radio's view was that 
“additional spectrum for broadcast au- 
dio is justified by the demonstrated im- 
ortance of the audio service in informa- 
tion and entertainment programing." It 
pointed to testing of digital audio trans- 
mission at noncommercial WGBH-FM 
Boston, which “‘produced superior au- 
dio quality” but at the cost of additional 
spectrum from the UHF band. The Bos- 
ton tests demonstrated, NPR said, “the 
need for the commission to encourage 


E 


1 TOP OF THE WEEK |— —— 


кт 


further development of digital audio 
broadcasts." 

Digideck, “a small, start-up compa- 
ny" researching techniques for trans- 
mitting digital audio, argued that "'it is 
now feasible to upgrade the existing au- 
dio in a compatible manner" and that “it 
makes more sense to make that upgrade 
now, coincident with the specification of 
an improved video format. Otherwise 
one risks the potential obsolescence of 
the ‘improved reccivers’ when the add- 
ed features become available through an 
augmentation channel," 

vera] broadcasters were in full ac- 
cord with the comments of the National 
Association of Broadcasters, which list- 
ed three critical steps that the FCC 
would have to follow: ''(1) advising and 
being advised by the Advanced Televi- 
Sion Systems Committee (ATSC), the 
industry-wide standards-setting group, 
as we sort through the very complicated 
tasks and tests ahead, (2) understanding 
the critical importance to the success of 
HDTV, of setting a single broadcast 
transmission standard, and (3) continu- 
ing to reserve additional spectrum to 
broadcast HDTV, recognizing that there 
now is no way to know what those spec- 
trum needs might be.” 

ATSC itself invited the FCC to use it 
as a partner and an information resource 
in finding a suitable standard. “We be- 
lieve that the ATSC can provide valu- 
able assistance to the commission. 
sessing the issues raised and achieving 
the goals described in the notice of inqui- 
ry, and we offer the ATSC as a resource 
for the commission's use, "' it said. 

On the cable side, desire for a stan- 
dard compatible with NTSC sets was as 
great as broadcasters’. General Instru- 
ment Corp., manufacturer of cable TV 
equipment, said that “compatibility is 
an important goal" not only for home 
viewers but for the cable and satellite in- 
dustries, 

If a broadband system is ultimately 
chosen, those industries will have to 
bear the expenses of new equipment 
along with consumers. General Instru- 
ment also claimed one-channel systems 
that “use low time compression factors 
or none at all are likely to out-perform 
those that use higher compression fac- 
tors" іп cable transmission. 

Rogers Cablesystems of America, To- 

multiple systems operator, said 
clicves strongly in smooth tran- 
sitions to new technologies and greatly 
favors ATV schemes which minimize 
the cost of retaining compatibility with 
as much of the existing production, 
transmission and consumer electronic 
equipment as possible." 

Recognizing the importance of spec- 
trum issues to both broadcasters and 
cablecasters, the National Cable Televi- 
sion Association felt that signal robust- 
ness was the more critical issue facing 
the cable industry. NCTA's fear was 
that acceptable over-the-air advanced 
signals might lose strength too rapidly 
when sent through coaxial cable. n 


CBS sells Records group to Sony 


Price tag of $2 billion raises specula- 
tion about what Tisch will do with cash 
from sales of CBS assets 


И took 10 weeks of negotiations, a 
wrenching stock market drop and some 
hastily called board meetings, but Larry 
Tisch finally got his wish. The CBS 
board of directors last Wednesday ap- 
proved the sale of CBS Records Group 
to Sony Cor for $2 billion, _. 

Now the key question for Tisch, the 
CBS president who owns just under 25% 
of the corporation through Loew's 
Corp., is what CBS will do with approxi- 
mately $3 billion in cash from sales of 
CBS assets. 

The CBS Records sale, expected to 
close in early 1988 following government 
approvals, will add between $1.4 billion- 
$1.6 billion after taxes to a CBS cash 

ool already swelled to more than $1.5 
Billion by h's $650-million sale of the 
CBS magazine division, the $500-million 
sale of CBS's book publishing and the 
$125-million sale of CBS's music pub- 
lishing businesses. Ў 

Records President Walter Yetnikoff 
will remain as the head of the operation 
along with a new management team of 
his choosing. There were reports that 
Yetnikoff, who had attempted an unsuc- 
cessful management buyout bid, but 
whose presence is considered by some 
to be essential to the division's contin- 
ued success, may gain as much as $20 
million from the transaction, with anoth- 


er $30 million distributed to top Records 
executives. 

There was speculation, as well, that 
CBS will undergo а new round of corpo- 
rate restructuring as the records division 
is passed to Sony. 

On Wall Street, views of the sale were 
mixed. The day after the announcement, 
Standard & Poor's gave positive indica- 
tions that it would consider upgrading 
CBS's debt and preference stock rat- 
i while at the same time raising nega- 
tive implications about Sony Corp.'s rat- 
ings. CBS stock also jumped $8.63 to 
$176 last Wednesday in anticipation of 
the board's decision. The next day the 
stock fell by $7.75. 

Some equity analysts, however, ques- 
tioned whether the company would be 
able to find a way, short-term or long- 
term, to replace the Record division's 
earnings, expected to reach $180 million 
to $190 million this year and an estimat- 
ed $200 million in 1988. 

Asa result, several analysts last week 
talked of dropping their 1988 earnings- 
per-share estimates for the company. At 
Merrill Lynch, Peter Falco raised the 
poss ility of taking any where from 2010 

0 cents off the earnings estimate if the 
cash were invested for interest in banks, 
possibly more if put into station acquisi- 
tions. 

L.F. Rothschild analyst Alan Gottes- 
man believes, by contrast, that the sale 
will have little impact on cither earnings 
per share or stock price. с 


TNT in limbo 


No vote taken by TBS board 
on new network amid lackluster 
reception by cable operators 


Turner Broadcasting System's proposed 
new cable programing service, Tarner, 
Network Television, appears headed for 
the back burner. The TBS board met 
Nov. 15 in California, and the hope a 
month ago was that TBS would have the 
necessary carriage commitments from 
cable operators to go ahead with the 
service. But that did not happen. 

A Turner spokesman said the board 
discussed TNT, but that no vote was 
taken, and no date set for launch or for a 
board vote on the concept. 

“It's very much alive," said Timothy 
Neher, president of Continental Cab- 
levision and a board member, “but not 
ready for launch. Most of the board 
members, if not all, are positive toward 
the concept," he said. Another board 
member, Trygve Myhren, chairman of 
American Television & Communica- 
tions, told the Denver Post that "Even 
if the idea doesn't go ahead at this meet- 
ing, it doesn't mean we will never go 
ahead with it.” 


Broadcasting Nov 20 1987 


The board approved the concept of 
the service at its Oct. 16 meeting and di- 
rected TBS to begin pitching the service 
to operators. But almost immediately 
the marketing drive ran into trouble. The 
stock market crash on Oct. 19 turned the 
minds of cable operators elsewhere and 
caused a retreat from expensive new 
ventures. The channel capacity problem 
also rose repeatedly. (A board member 
said the possibility of using the slot of 
Tempo TV, which is being purchased by 
Telc-Communications Inc., was not dis- 
cussed.) 

There is also concern in the industry 
about how the channel will be financed. 
Turner's plan is for a 10 cents per month 
per subscriber fee, which increases aver 
time, plus Surcharges fon the high-profile 
events the network wants. 

While most cable operators whole- 
heartedly support that concept, they are 
not sure the MGM film library and relat- 
ed Turner programing is strong enough 
to carry the service until those high-pro- 
file events come along. That presents 
TBS with a dilemma. Operators are re- 
luctant to sign on until they see the big- 
name events, and Turner can't get the 
big-name events until he has a channel. 


TOP OF THE WEEK C 


Vertical Integration 
The business behind the boom in cable programing 


The setting is the Denver office of 
the chief ezecutive of a major MSO. 
On the other side of the desk їз some- 
one with a “great idea" for a new ca- 
ble programing service. 
Programer:...It's a goldmine. 

CEO: Mmmmm. 

Programer: Well, we'll give opera- 
tors an equity interest. 

CEO: Mmmmm. 

Programer: OK, we'll give you 51% 
ownership, but not a dime more. 
CEO: Mmmmm. 

Programer: OK, OK, you can have 
80%, but I've got to have 20% to meet 
payroll. 


An exaggeration? Yes. But in the past 18 
months, cable operator ownership and 
equity participation the foot soldiers of 
vertical integration—have rapidly be- 
come the quid pro quo for launching new 
services. 

There are a number of reasons why 
this method of financing/distribution has 
come into vogue. Cable operators see 
equity participation as a way t 
that services they feel their subscribers 
want will see the light of day. It gives 
cable operators greater, or in some 
cases, total control over the service. As 
industry proponents call for cable-exclu- 
Sive programing to differentiate them- 
selves, owning programing services 
takes on more allure. For many years, 
and to a lesser extent today, the cable 
industry has been criticized for relying 
on warmed over network or syndication 
reruns. Flush with cash from the com- 
pletion of most system construction, and. 
freed from local rate regulation, cable 
operators have the money to plow back 
into programing. And they are using 
some of that money to take equity stakes 
in programing services. 

But although cable operators look at 
equity as a way to acquire a wider range 
of programing, and much that otherwise 
might not be produced, critics see the 
same development as an attempt by ca- 
ble operators to hoard product and an 
example of an insensitivity to exclusiv- 
ity arrangements that have helped cable 
prosper. 

Programers who have tried to launch 
services in the past 18 months have 
found the shelf space dwindling. Chan- 
nel capacity is as tight today on cable 
systems as it was in the early 80's. Al- 


though the situation is expected to ease 
somewhat by the early 1990's, as the last 
of the major urban builds are finished 


and system upgrades continue, cable op- 
erators are wondering how many more 
services can be added, since in the end 
consumers wind up paying for them. 
Today's capacity crunch, which 
threatens to postpone the launch of the 


ATC's Dressier 


Broadcasting Nov 22 1997 


one of the industry's most solidly 
backed services, Turner Broadcasting 
System's Turner Network Television, is 
causing potential programers to offer eq- 
uity stakes to operators to insure car- 
riage. Most of the equity ventures that 
have launched in the last year and a half 
have a telemarketing feature, such as the 
Travel Channel, The Fashion Channel 
and the QVC Network. But other serv- 
ices have launched, although on a much 
lower scale, without equity offerings. 
the Consumer Discount Network and 
Movietime, for example. You TV and 
Teleworld are also on the drawing 
boards for launch next year, but neither 
came out of the blocks with equity par- 
ticipation ast part of its company struc- 
ture. 

“An equity deal is wonderful for ini- 
tial distribution, and it secures a lot of 
different fronts," says Sheri Herman, 
vice president, sale and marketing, 
Fashion Channel, which launched with 
65 equity cable operator partners. "But 
work still has to be done ona day-to-day 
basis to make sure it’s a working part- 
nership. If you don't have that, the best 
equity deal in the world won't matter." 

David Meister, Financial News Net- 
work director, has launched services 
with and without equity. "In reality, 
what you have, no matter what the piece 
of paper between the two entities, is an 
inherent partnership in the promotion of 
а cable programing service 10 the con- 
sumer," says Meister. “In that process, 
а deal is going be made, whether you call 
it equity, revenue sharing, affiliate fee, 
commission or whatever. If it isn't a rea- 
sonable and fair deal, the whole thing 
breaks down.” 

Cable operators, although coming 
from a different perspective, also find 
that the equity-carriage element is a very 
important part, but that aspect alonc 
won't carry a service. Still, some opera- 
tors are more bullish than others when it 
comes lo ownership or equity participa- 
tion. Bob Redella, vice president, pro- 
graming and investments for Cox Cable, 
lists what's important for getting a new 
service off the ground: “All the pieces 
really have to fit. The service has to be 
quality. It has to have a continuous flow 
of programing. It has to have good man- 
agement. It has to have the necessary 
finances and finally it has to have « 
nage.” Cox has taken a strong position 
in program seryice Ownership, through 
the Discovery Channel, Home Premiere 
Television and its own home shopping 
service, America’s Shopping Club. But 


- 


] ТОР OF THE WEEK. C 


the key question in launching a new 
service, said Redella, whether equity or 
ownership EH are involved, is: “Is 
the programing of quality value for the 
consumer? 

Taking a bit more cautious approach is 
Amcrican Television & Communica- 
tions, the second largest MSO. "We are 
not out looking for equity positions in 
cable services,” said Fred Dressler, vice 
president of programing. "We under- 
stand why people are offerin; 
but it's our position that we'd r 
make decisions on the value of the prod- 
uct and not the value of the invest- 
ment," 


While we're on the subject 


An extended discussion on the approaches of various MSO's lo owner- 
ship in program services, and an examination into why programers offer 
equity in order to gain distribution, continues on page 68. A list of the 
principal regional sports programing services, many owned by cable 


MSO's, appears on page 67. 


Who owns what with whom in cable networking 


Basic services 


Network. Subseribers Ownership Network Subscribers Ownership 
ESPN 44,300 КЕ; [зд (80%), RJR Telshop 11,000 Infotech (20%), Dr. Earle Brian 
isco (; (1539)** 
WTBS 41,642 Mis RM (Ted Turner QVC Network 10,747 QVC Network (85%), Comcast 
65%, Time Inc. [ATC] 11.5%, TCI (14%), cable operators (21%)""" 
w %, po ai United 3.2%, Inspi nal 10,700 PTL Club 
jarner iremos 
. E а t- 
CNN 4842. Tumor Broadcasting (Ted Turner Learning Chane 10,300 ан „рравопал сот 
eae fame Ine Am a iW Ae Te! ficers and employes (20%) 
Warner 18%) © ed WWOR 10100 MCA 
USA 39,000 МСА (60%), Paramount (50%) Silent Network 10,100 Silent Network inc. 
MTV 3700 MTV Networks Inc. (Viacom) Video Май Net, 10.000 Video Shopping Mall (Goodway 
Nashville 36,000 Gaylord Broadcasting Marketing BUG) 
CBN 35,834 Christian Broadcasting Netwok 77774 ee 
Nickelodeon 35800 МТУ Networks Inc. (Viacom) Eternal Word TV 7.100 Eternal Word Television (nonprot- 
Lifetime 32,300 СС/АВС (33%), Viacom (33%), it) 
Hearst (33%) Fashion Channel 7,000 Charlie Gee (32%), 65 cable op- 
Weather Chan. 31,053 Landmark Communications (for- erators (25%)"""" TCI (10.5%), 
mer parent of TeleCable) United (10.5%) 
Nick at Nite 31,000 MTV Networks Inc. (Viacom) Country Music 6,700 Jim Guercio (principal owner) 
Headline News 28352 Tumer Broadcasting (Ted Tumer Acts 6000 Southern Baptist Convention 
een Time ne: aera 11.5%. TCI Travel Channel 5,700 TWA Marketing (100%), after equi- 
1%, UA 4 Inited 3.2%, ty offering TWAM will hold 63%, 
Жы 1.8%) cable operators 37%*"""" 
FNN 27,000 Infotech (20%), Dr. Earle Brian HSN It 4,200 Home Shopping Networks Inc. 
(1996) Movietime 3200 Employes (30%), Mabon, Nugent 
A&E 27,000 CC/ABC (33%), NBC (33%), & Co.. SRK ШЕСЕ Loeb 
Hearst (33%) Partners and Hallmark (70%) 
Discovery 25,600 TCI (14%), United (14%), Cox Shop TV 2,500 JC Penney (63%). STN (37% = 
ША, ero рй NOW: WPIX 2471 Tribune Broadcasting 
New York Life Co. Alles со Hit Video USA 2,100 Wodlinger Broadcasting 
(30%) KTVT 1,891 Gaylord Broadcasting 
C-SPAN 23,000 Cable operator supported Nostalgia 1,400 ee canain (ne Tele 
, M i able subsidiary has small per- 
Е ie Wie eI tad 
Score 19800 Infotech 20%, Dr. Earle Brian Бену TOt Eee ла petuo 
ў Consum. Disc. Ш 1.000 Entertainment Marketing Inc. 
сух 19,000 COMB (EMO i. 18 cable орет Say Merchant 1.000 Jones, (parent ol Jones Inter 
cable 
BET 15,000 Bob Johnson (51%), BET presi- ES 
Gent, TCI (16%), HBO (16%), тан America's Shop. 1,000 Сох Cable 
(16%) Galavision 900 Univisa 
HSNI 13,500 Home Shopping Networks Inc. Gospel Music Net. 844 GMN Lid. 
C-SPAN II 12,500 Cable operator supported Motivation Net. 600 Rock Christian Network (nonprofit) 
Tempo TV 12,500 TCI (pending owner) CDN I 526 Enterlainment Marketing 


Proadcasing Nov 23 1987 


t TOP CF THE WEEK 


Pay services 

Network. Subscribers Ownership 

HBO 15,000 Time Inc. 

AMC 7.000 Rainbow Program Enterprises 
(Cablevision Systems) 50%, TCI 
50% 

Showtime 5,300" Viacom 

Cinemax 4,100 Time Ine. 

Disney 3.175 Walt Disney Со 

Movie Channel 3,000" Viacom 

Playboy 520 Playboy Enterprises 

Bravo 500 RPE (Cablevision Systems) 

Festival 30 Time Ine. 


"Estimate. Showtime does not breakout figures for Showtime/The 
Movie Channel 


Pay-per-view services 


View. Choice 1 4,000 Viacom 

Request TV 2,500 Daniels, United Cable, Centel, 
Heritage, American, major mo- 
tion picture studios 

Home Premiere 2,300 АТС, Cox, TeleCable, Continen- 


tal and Newhouse 20% each. 
Cable Video Store 40 General Instrument 


Bold lece in righthand column indicales cable operator ownership or Ownership by compe 
ny wilh cable systems in separate subsidiary 


*CVN—The ownership by 18 cable operators —American, ATC, Adam 
Corp., Cablevision, Colony, Continental, Cooke, Daniels & Asso- 


ciates, Heritage, Newhouse, Rogers, Sammons, TCI, Times Mirror, 
United Artiste, United, Viacom, Warner—is based on percentage of 
subscribers committed to service. 


""Telshop—FNN is offering equity to cable operators (500,000 shares). 
FNN will retain two million shares. 


**"QUC Network—lt is presenting owned by the public (65%), Comcast 
(14%) and cable operators (21%). When cable operators exercise war- 
rants on 483,000 shares of preferred stock, redeemable for 10 shares of 
common stock, another 4,83 million shares will be added to the approxi- 
mately 10 million shares Outstanding. At that point, cable operators 
would own approximately 8.5 million shares of the 15 million shares 
outstanding, or 56% of the service. The largest in that group would be TCI 
(2,150,000) 


"Fashion Channel—Among the larger cable operators with an equity 
stake are Adelphia, American, ATC, Barden, Bresnan, Cablevision 
industries, Centel, Century, Colony, Commonwealth Cablesystems, 
Continental, Cooke, Cox, Daniels, Enstar, First Carolina, Harron, 
Hauser, Heritage, Lenfest, Maclean Hunter, Marcus, Media General, 
Newhouse, Omega, Post Newsweek, Prestige, Sammons, Scripps 
Howard, Simmons, Susquehanna, Sutton Capital, Taft, TeleCable, 
TCI, Times Mirror, Triax, UA, United, United Video Cablevision, Via- 
com and Warner. 


vr"Travel Channel—The final equity offering is to be placed by Dec. 1, 
whereby TWA Marketing will retain 6 million shares and cable operators 
will be offered 3.5 million, 


^1"Shop TV—II has equity commitments from 30 MSO's representing 
3.3 million subscribers, MSO's will receive 1% equity in the service for 
each million homes they commit to. Cable operators who have major 
stakes in other shopping programs, such as TCI, United and Comcast, 
аге aot a part of Shop. Among the MSO's whose systems are carrying 
Shop TV are Cablevision Systems, Rogers, Continental and Warner. 


TVRO’s win round one on regulation 


Commerce passes Gore-Ford bill; 
major fight expected on floor; 

it permits third parties to distribute 
cable program Services to dish owners 


The home satellite dish industry scored 
an initial victory last week when the 
Senate Commerce Committee adopted 
legislation (S.889) to regulate the TVRO 
marketplace. Still, final Senate passage 
is not a given; indeed, the battle Is apt to 
intensify as it heads for a final floor vote. 
Proponents are hoping to see it move 
before Congress adjourns and are al- 
ready laying the groundwork for House 
consideration , 

Despite Commerce’s action (it was 
approved by voice vote) there was some 
dissention. The Communications Sub- 
committee chairman, Daniel Inouye (D- 
Hawaii), thinks the measure is wrong- 
headed and promises to fight it on the 
floor. Inouye could be joined by Bob 
Packwood of Oregon. the ranking Re- 
publican on the subcommittee, who al- 
though absent from the debate (he was a 
participant in the White Housc-congres- 
sional budget summit), is known to op- 
pose the bill as it was reported from 
committee. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) also 
has problems with it. 

S.889 would mandate that cable pro- 


gramers permit any qualified third par- 
ty—inside and outside the cable indus- 
try—to distribute their services to dish 
owners. (To assuage some concerns, 
this provision was modified to “allow 
reasonable programer judgments to be 
made in qualifying distributors.) Pro- 
ponents of the bill believe competition 
among multiple third-party distributors 
would keep prices of programing low 
enough to satisfy dish owners and bol- 
ster the sagging home satellite industry 
by making dish ownership more attrac- 
tive to consumers. 

Even those who favor S.889—Sena- 
tors Pete Wilson (R-Calif.) and Larry 
Pressler (R-S.D.), for example—indicat- 
ed they'll seek further refinements. Sen- 
ator John Kerry (D-Mass.) expressed 
doubts about the need forsuch a bill and, 
according to staff, may offer some 
amendments. “А lot of work has t 
done.... It’s not over,” said one Sei 
aide. 

The controversial measure pits cable 
against the home satellite industry and 
has been the subject of a massive grass- 
roots campaign by dish owners, dealers 
and manufacturers for several years; 
they failed by a vote of 55 to 45 to pass a 
TYRO bill in the Senate last year. But 
this time proponents feel the numbers 


e 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1087 


are on their side. "This is far from over 
but we're really on the right track,” sai 
Fred Finn, president of the Home Satel- 
lite Television Association. The Satellite 
Broadcasting & Communications Asso- 
ciation applauded the committee's’ ac- 
tions and is hopeful the “momentum will 
carry over to the House side," said Pres- 
ident Chuck Hewitt. 

Senators Al Gore (D-Tenn.) and Wen- 
dell Ford (D-Ky.), the legislation's prin- 
cipal sponsors (along with Dale Bump- 
ers [D-Ark.]), were equally pleased. Fol- 
lowing the vote, Gore told reporters he 
is confident the measure will receive fult 
Senate approval. “I am very pleased 
with where we are today," said Ford, 
who added, "those win-them-all's [an 
obvious reference to cable's numerous 
legislative and regulatory victories] are 
going to lose one." 

Cable was not viewing the commi 
tee's action as a terminal blow. It was a 
case of the opponents choosing “not to 
have the fight in committee but on the 
floor," said National Cable Television 
Association President Jim Mooncy. Nor 
does Mooney think the will be en- 
acted because, he said, "'it is fundamen- 
tally flawed. It is a solution in search of a 
problem and we will continue to oppose 
| Ам 


p ay “Yes” 
Read Broadcasting. 


S, roa aes 


EE E Umm m i mm 
COE COO NN XX 


When Jule Barnat 
revolutionizt e € of 1| 
Yes 


5 gets a new, super slo-mo camera which 
npics in Los Angeles. 
art equipment to cover the 1988 Winter 


Olympics in Calgary 

And when Julie Barnathan says “Yes,” the technology for closed-captioning for the hearing 
impaired is developed. Mr. Barnathan was awarded an honorary Doctor of Science degree for 
his discovery о! the technology and tor his contributions to the development of the closed 
d system 

As the Presic cas! Operations and Engineering for Capital Cities/ABC, 
Mr. Barnathan must not only stay in the forefront of broadcast technology, but he has lo know 
what's happening throughout the rest of the broadcast-communications ndustry—everything 
from programing to the FCC. Everything and everyone that can affect Capital Cities/ABC 

Mr. Barnathan has been lar subscriber to Brot ting for 28 years. 

He reads it. Depends on 1. Every week. 


Broadcasting # 


The News Magazine o/ the Fifth Estate 


New York Washington Headquarters Hollywood 
630 Third Ave., 10017 1705 DeSales St., N.W., 20036 1680 N. Vine St., 90028 
(212) 599-2830 (202) 659-2340 (213) 463-3148 


Group heads address major issues 
from effect of recent stock market 
crash to advertising outlook 


How will radio fare as a business in 
1988? Despite the upcoming Olympics 
and presidential election, traditionally 
boom times for radio, division heads arc 
bracing for a tough sales year, albeit one 
that should register some growth in all 
advertising segments. 

That's the forecast from 10 medium- 
to-major-market radio group operators 
surveyed by BROADCASTING. Many 
group officials attribute their cautious 
outlook to a generally sluggish economy 
that existed before the Oct. 19 stock 
market crash when the Dow Jones in- 
dustrial average fell a record 508 points 

Radio group executives predict single- 
digit percentage increases for both na- 
tional spot and local dollars—slightly 
higher for the latter. The predictions are 
in line with those of the Radio Advertis- 
ing Bureau, which is projecting a 6% rise 
in national spot and an 8% growth rate in 
local sales. 

And as station formats become even 
more fragmented and specialized, many 
group heads foresee greater use of quali 
tative rather than quantitative data iı 
their sales efforts. Given increasing 
costs for research and ratings, execu- 
tives say that radio broadcasters would 
not financially support a third loca] mar- 
ket ratings company which had been 
ро osed by McNair Anderson, a North 
Sydney, Australia-based subsidiary of 
AGB, earlier this year. (The industry is 
currently served by Arbitron Ratings, 
the dominant ratings company, and 
Birch Radio Research.) 

According to a majority of group 
heads, the backlash from the recent 
stock market decline will not adversely 
affect radio station operations. “The 
stock market crash has nothing to do 


Radio executives look ahead to 1988 


with [day-to-day] broadcast issues as far 
as stations positioning themselves in a 
market," said Randy Bongarten, NBC 
Radio president. ‘There is nothing fun- 
damentally wrong with the economy,” 
he said. NBC owns cight stations in five 
markets, but it has three of those outlets: 
WMAQ(AM) Chicago, KNBR(AM) San 
Francisco, and WKYS(FM) Washington, 
on the block. 

For Mel Karmazin, Infinity Broad- 
casting executive vice president, 1988 
could very well be the year that the radio 
industry surpasses its usual 7% slice of 
the total media advertising sales pie. 
“Radio has historically done well when 
the economy is in a state of uncertainty- 

„Besides, total [йо revenues have 
gone up every year for the past 35 
years," he said, adding that, “1 don't 
See any evidence that the stock market 
crash wil] hurt advertising dollars for ra- 
dio." Infinity is a publicly held group 
operation headquartered in New York 
with 13 radio stations across ten major 
markets. 

The Infinity executive believes that 
the recent stock market downturn will 
actually benefit the radio industry be- 
cause advertisers will be watching their 
spending budgets more carefully. As a 
result, Karmazin believes that radio will 
be viewed as offering more value in 1988 
“than any other year." 

One healthy sign for the industry, he 
added, is that the investment community 
“has discovered" the radio business. 
“There are several investment houses 
now writing about radio as an invest- 
ment," Karmazin predicted that more 
companies will expand into radio owner- 
ship—both cstablished and new con- 
cerns—in the coming year. 

“The top-tier radio properties with 
good facilities will be only minimally af- 
fected by the stock market crash of Oc- 
tober 19. Those stations will still com- 


Bongarten 


Karmazin 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


mand the same multiples [of cash flow] 
in pricing because they are rare,” said 
Gary Edens, chairman of Edens Broad- 
casting, Phoenix. “However, it will be 
difficult for sellers to get premium prices 
for turn-around situations in both major 
and secondary markets," Edens said 
Edens Broadcasting operates nine sta- 
tions in five markets. 

Herb McCord, group vice president 
radio for Greater Media, New Bruns- 
wick, N.J.-based radio group, predicted 
that there will be some "'softening" of 
station prices in 1988 as a result of the 
stock market crash. “You have а num- 
ber of very highly leveraged groups that 
took on a tremendous amount of debt in 
the past three years," he said. “A lot of 
them were counting on going public and 
having the equity market take them out 
of that debt situation. But 1 don't think 
that will happen right now, causing a lot 
of these leveraged groups to spin-off non 
cash-flow stations. That will lead to the 
beginning of some ‘rational’ pricing," 
McCord said. 

Bongarten agreed that there are po- 
tential problems for “leveraged” groups 
in 1988, but he attributed them to a lack 
of overall growth in radio revenues. 
Bongarten said that the market's fall 
could eventually help station trading by 
making available funds that previously 
were invested in stocks. 

James Arcara, Capital Cities/ABC ra- 
dio president, sees today’s economic cli- 
mate as leading to a "slow down" in the 
station trading process next year as well 
as lower prices, “We are not being very 
aggressive in our [business] forecast be- 
cause of the e in the econo- 
my," he said. Capital Cities/ABC's ra- 
dio group is composed of 21 stations in 
11 markets. 

Bob Hosking, CBS Radio president, 
suggested that there will be less trading 
next year if station prices keep rising. 


RAB... RADIO'S$ SOURCE 


The ideas, the concepts, the studies, 
the comparisons, and the numbers that 
power radio's sales effort originate at 
the Radio Advertising Bureau. RAB 
has the only regular program of 
original radio research, maintains the 
industry's most extensive marketing 
information center, employs leading 
research talent and operates 
RABCOOP, radio's only national 
on-line computer network. 


RAB conceives, collects, analyses and 
shares the facts, figures and arguments 
that sell radio. 


Join RAB. Tap the source. 
Call 1-800-232-3131. 


Hosking oversees 18 stations in J] mar- 
kets as well as two radio networks anda 
radio representation firm. “Business in 
radio hasn't been that good,” he said. 
That observation certainly under- 
scores the national spot marketplace. 

“National spot sales is becoming an ‘un- 
reliable business’ with placement times 
and campaign flight dates getting 
shorter,” said Norman Wain, Metroplex 
Communications president 

"What was once national spot ac- 
counts have become local. due to the re- 
gionalization of agencies,” said Karma- 

This won't change in 1988, but it 
offers one explanation why national spot 
has performed “unceremoniously,” he 
said. (According to Radio Expenditure 
Reports, which tracks national spot dol- 
lars on a monthly basis, spot business 
from January through September is off 
2.2% to 668,962 1 100 when compared to 
the same period last year.) 

Another explanation for the shift to 
local spot was offered by Dick Harris, 
Group W Radio president. National 
product advertisers like General Foods 
and Colgate have been shifting their na- 
tional spot budgets to local allocations 
through their brokers or district repre- 
sentatives, Harris said. Then they ap- 
proach local stations with sales promo- 
tion ideas, he said. “These [expendi- 


d 
tures] are counted as local dollars in the 
accounting process," he said. Group W 
operates 15 radio stations in 12 markets. 

According to Jeff Smulyan, Emmis 
Broadcasting president, national reps 
have also been hurt "dramatically" by 
syndicated networks because they are 
“easier for advertisers to buy." Smu- 
lyan didn't rule out the "possibility" 
that rep firms may enter the syndicated 
programing market. Emmis is based in 
Indianapolis and operates the nation’s 
first 24-hour all-sports outlet, wFAN(AM) 
New York. 

‘The death of national spot has been 
greatly exaggerated," said Bongarten. 
“National spot business isn't shrinking, 
it's just fiat.” 

Wain, meanwhile, said that advertis- 
ing sales derived from the upcoming 
Olympics and presidential elections 
“will not impact as greatly on radio" as 
they will on television. "What will help 
the radio industry is a good retailing 
year," he said. "Radio is becoming 
more tied to the retail calendar," said 
Wain. 

"We give blanket credit for the Olym- 
pics and presidential elections every 
four years for helping radio sales.” 
Harris. “But it is not so much that radio 


automatically gets Olympic business. 
Advertisers usually move into radio 
‘once other media, primarily television, 
gets filled up.” he said. 

In other arcas, there appears to be a 
trend toward the use of more local quali- 
tative data by stations in their respective 
markets. Indeed, one of the major topics 
discussed at a recent Radio Advertising 
Bureau GOALS committee meeting 
with Arbitron officials in New York was 
the need for that ratings company to pro- 
duce more qualitative data for subscrib- 
ers. (Birch recently merged its data col- 
lection facilities with Scarborough Re- 
search, a newspaper ratings and 
multimedia retail research firm (“In 
Brief," Oct. 19). 

“Group operators will be selling more 
through qualitative rather than quantita- 
tive data, especially when talking direct- 
ly to advertisers, said Wain. “Тһе 
trend is know as much as you can about 
your audience,” added Smulyan, whose 
stations have utilized “psychographic’’ 
listener studies. 

“The buying process is dominated by 
gross rating points and it won't change in 
à year's time. But stations will try to 
break away from that selling mentality 
NBC's Bongarten said 

ur stations are buying more quali- 
tative data today," noted Dick Fergu- 


Wain Нате 
son, NewCity Communications presi- 
dent. In general, advertisers “will be 
very selective regarding what stations 
they will use during the coming year,” 
he said. “They will use those stations 
that they perceive as adding value to 
their bottom line,” he said. NewCity, 
which is based in Bridecport, Conn., 
owns 15 radio stations across nine mar- 
kets. 

Capital Cities/ABC’s Arcara predict- 
ed that there will be more buying based 
upon older demographics | (35-plus) 
“Marketing people are realizing that ma- 
ture Americans have more buying power 
today,” Arcara said. 

Many of the group executives inter- 
viewed by BROADCASTING see Birch Ra- 
dio, with its various qualitative services, 
continuing to garner acceptability 
throughout the industry, particularly at 
the agency and advertiser level. Howev- 
er, they all agree that Arbitron will re- 
main the primary source for local market 
radio buying, When asked if the industry 
would support a third ratings company, 
the answer was a universal "*no."" 

“Broadcasters have not been so sup- 
portive of any new research compan: 
said Karmazi tations first sec how 
many agencies will use the data while 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1967 
ав 


the agencies usually adopt а ‘wait-and- 
see’ attitude until they are able to ana- 
lyze the service's numbers," he said. 
"Radio stations don't want another 
service and I don't think agencies are 
excited at the prospect,” said Hosking. 

According to McCord, the only way a 
new company would get industry sup- 
port would be if it “invented a device 
that would radically change the whole 
process." Said McCord: “Basically, 
there are only two real methodologies 
[telephone recall and diary placement] 
and there arc already two companies 
employing them. It’s a very expensive 
business to get into the ratings business. 
And from the station’s standpoint, it has 
become very expensive to support the 
two services." 

Most group heads don't see AM ster- 
ео making апу more of an inroad іп 1988 
than in previous years. The reason that 
there are successful AM stations isn't 
because they broadcast in stereo. It’s 
due to their programing, said Infinity's 
Karmazin. 

According to Edens, “the receiver 
manufacturers have not embraced AM 
stereo...And there is no public demand 
for AM stereo because they are being 
served on the FM band with stereo. 
Added Hosking: “There is still no stan- 
dard...It will take years before AM ster- 


<= 
^ 


Smulyan Ferguson ~ 
eo is a factor for improving AM radio.” 
(Currently, stations have a choice of two 
systems, Kahn Communications’ single- 
sideband system and Motorola's C- 
Quam system—the last has received the 
support of the National Telecommuni 
tions and Information Adı istration.) 

If there is a major programing trend on 
the horizon, it is further narrowcasting 
of the format spectrum. “What's hap- 

ning in radio is not the emergence of 

ig, new formats, but more of a targeting 
of existing formats like all-sports or "The 
Wave’ [new age/light jazz]," Harris 
said. "Asto what degree of success they 
will have, it will depend on what their 
competitors are doing in the market 
more than how the format is being exe- 
cuted,” he said. 

“There will be more specialization of 
formats,” McCord said. Radio, to some 
extent, is following the lead of the cable 
industry with targeted programing, he 
added. 

Other trends cited by the group opera- 
tors include an intensified station AM/ 
FM combination selling effort, especial- 
ly when targeted audiences of the sta- 
tions complement each other, and more 
local joint sales promotions with adver- 
tisers that can offset a station's promo- 


She's coming soon from 
MCATV 


© 1987 МСАТУ All right reserved. 


tional costs. Promotions, said Ferguson, 
are being designed to work for both the 
station and the advertiser, “In the past, 
they were verv client driven." he said. 

roup W's Harris perhaps best char- 
acterized the next year’s outlook when 
he told his staff two weeks ago that 1988 
will be a time for “renewal.” Said Har- 
ris: Although we did better as a compa- 
ny than in 1986, we didn’t reach the 
[sales] goals we set for ourselves in 1987 
and that can slow you down when plan- 
ning for 1988...So we decided to get a 
running start up the mountain by setting 
some tough objectives for next year. 
And weare determined to make those ob- 
jectives." 


California station 
sale challenged 


The FCC will decide whether a financial- 
ly troubled AM-FM combination in 
northern California can be sold follow- 
ing allegations of an unauthorized trans- 
fer of the stations’ broadcast licenses to 
a major creditor. The case, which FCC 
officials say may be a first for the agen- 
cy, involves KVEC(AM) San Luis Obispo 
and KPGA(FM) Pismo Beach. 

In a petition challenging the license 
transfer to U.S. Media, two former ex- 
ecutives of Five Cities Broadcasting 
Inc., owner of KVEC and KPGA, claimed 
that Coast Savings and Loan Assn. of 
Los Angeles has run the stations since 
Five Cities defaulted on a $1.2 mill 
loan more than a year ago. In a petition 
filed with the FCC, James Sweida, for- 
mer general manager of the stations, and 
Dan Armstrong, former program manag- 
er, contended that the state-licensed 
savings institution forced Five Cities to 
bring in a consultant to make all financial 
decisions, an assertion the financial in- 
stitution disputes. 

Gaui Sweidaand Armstrong were 
dismissed in January, each man retains a 
minority interest with 15% of the non- 
voting stock in Five Cities and could be 
liable for outstanding debts. 

Under the proposed sale, the stations 
pass from Five Cities to a Coast subsid- 
загу, CF Communications Inc. and then 
to U.S. Media. In their filing, Sweida 
and Armstrong alleged that Coast will 
reap the benefits while other smaller 
creditors will be left in the cold. 

Sweida said that he and Armstrong 
made an earlier bid to purchase the sta- 
tions from Five Cities president and pri- 
mary owner Michael Nigris Jr., but all 
prospective buyers except U.S. Me- 
dia were excluded. Coast officials de- 
clined to comment and Nigris could not 
be reached. 

However, in an FCC filing responding 
to the charges, Coast maintained that its 
role was "simply to protect its inter- 
ests” and that it has not interfered with 
the stations" opcrations. 


TIN 


Riding Gain 


Success stories 


In a year that has seen the unveiling of 
several specialized, 24-hour satellite- 
delivered radio formats, including the 
launch oí new age light jazz music ( The 
Wave") and home shopping services, 
comes yet another fulltime program op- 
eration, SuccessNet. 

The bartered network will provide lis- 
teners with segments of information 
culled from tapes of leading "success mo- 
tivators" in America, said verteran 
broadcaster Earl Nightingale, chairman 
of the new venture. (Nightingale is best 


Nightingale 


known or his daily, five-minute com- 
mentary, Our Changing World, distrib- 
uted by his Chicago-based audio pub- 
lishing and syndication firm, Nightin- 
gale-Conant Corp.) 

SuccessNet, scheduled to be launched 
via Satcom I-R on April 15, is designed 
for AM stations looking for an alternative 
format to help "stem the loss of listeners to 
the FM band,” said William Sauro, Suc- 
cessNet president, who is also head of 
Creative Advertising Co., Phoenix. Nine 
minutes per hour of advertising time will 
be retained by the network while affili- 
ate stations receive 11 minutes for local 


sale. 

"Nofield of multimedia publishing [au- 
dio cassettes, books, etc.) has grown in 
the last decade like motivation,” said 
Sauro. "These motivational products 
Tange in price from a few dollars to hun- 
dreds of dollars. However, there is no 
place for interested buyers to sample 
these products,” he said. "SuccessNet 
will give listeners a chance to sample 
them." 

Interspersed among the excerpts of 
motivational tapes, SuccessNet will offer 
two talk information program designs, 
one featuring "testimony vignettes of suc- 
cessful everyday people" and the other 
an overnight live call-in talk show, said 

ro. 

The network will also engage in direct- 
response selling of motivational products 
through an 800 toll-free number, with af- 
filiates receiving a 10% commission on 


Bicaccastiog Nov 23 1087 


sales based upon zip code results. "There 
will be one SuccessNet affiliate per ADI 
market" Sauro said. SuccessNet will 
originate from Phoenix. 


Network radio sales up 


The network radio business, which had 
been in the doldrums since the summer, 

jained some of its form in October with 
sales posting a 2% gain over October 
1986 to $36,756,291, That's according to 
the Radio Network Association, which 
relies on financia] data collected each 
month from network companies by the 
accounting firm of Ernst & Whinney. 
Year-to-date, however, network billings 
continue to be off, with lanuary through 
October advertising expenditures down 
3% over the same period a year ago to 
$309,818, 432. 


RAB's management agenda 


The Radio Advertising Bureau said it has 
signed several management experts and 
motivational consultants to appear at its 
eigh! annual Managing Sales Confer. 
ence (MSC), slated for Jan. 23-26 at Atlon- 
ta's Hyatt Regency hotel. 

Leading the list of speakers are Herb 
Cohen, author of the book, "You Can Ne- 
goliate Anything,” who will conduct a 
three-hour workshop on "selling tech: 
niques"; Kelsey Tyson, a management 
trainer, and Andrew Goodman, presi- 
dent and general manager o! the Ameri- 
can Comedy Network, who will give a 
keynote address entitled “How To Create 
Effective Local Radio Commercials.” 
Other speakers include Gordon Wil- 
liams, ABC Radio Network's economic 
correspondent; Pat Pearson, sales moti- 
vational speaker and author of "You De- 
serve The Sale: the Business of Success’; 
Dr. Steven Permut, a marketing profes- 
sor at Yale University, and Dr. Roger 
Blackwell, a demographer at Ohio State 
University. 

The three-day event, which has been 
titled "Team Radio '88: The New Ball 
Gam: being limited to 1,500 station. 
and sales managers from RAB member 
stations. "Our theme is to train and in- 
spire radios front-line sales trainers and 
managers to cope with a changing mar- 
ketplace, a changing economy and an 
evolving radio industry,” said Ralph 
(Toney) Brooks, president of the new 
Denver-based company, Radio One, 
and this year's MSC chairman. 


Newsmaking news 


Donald Regan, former White House chief 
of stafi and treasury secretary, has 
signed with Westwood One to deliver a 
series of 90-second political and econom- 
ic commentaries each weekday over the 
NBC Radio Network, which is owned by 
Westwood. The Donald Regan Report 
will originate from the Washinglon 
studios of Mutual Broadcast ing, another 
Westwood subsidiary. The show is 
scheduled to begin Tuesday, Dec. 1. 


H 


Half-hour sitcom glut no laughing matter 


Large number of syndicated shows, 
along with marketplace ditficulties, 
may affect future of genre 


Television stations and syndicators are 
trying to determine the future of sales of 
half-hour sitcoms in syndication be- 
cause of the large number of shows be- 
ing marketed or prepared for marketing. 

While certain half-hour shows such as 
The Cosby Show and Who's the Boss 
have been setting new price standards 
for off-network comedies in syndica- 
tion, which results in a two-tiered or 
multi-tiered markctplacc, there arc more 
than 30 other network’ or syndicated 
first-run sitcoms available for syndica- 
tion between 1988 and 1991. To date, 
only eight of those shows have been tak- 
en into the marketplace, leaving accep- 
tance of other shows still to be deter- 
mined. In addition, five shows are cx- 

cted to come from the cable networks 
In the next two years. 

11 was only in the past few years that 
more half-hour sitcoms began to appear 
on the networks, and in greater numbers 
in first-run syndication as of two years 
ago. 

The networks’ demand for sitcoms 
was partly triggered by declining ratings 
for one-hour shows (especially prime 
time soaps, with the exception of shows 
like Dallas), and by the license fees de- 
manded by producers. 

In addition, all three networks 
nessed the power of a half-hour show, 
particularly the The Cosby Show, to 
anchor an entire night of prime-time pro- 
graming. 

In syndication, one-hour shows expe- 
rienced a decline in ratings as the num- 
ber of these shows increased. The large 
number of availabie one-hour shows 
also made buyers more selective, or con- 
vinced them not to buy. One notable ex- 
ample of a one-hour show being pro- 
duced at a deficit which could not sell in 
broadcast syndication is Miami Vice. lt 
recently was sold to the USA Network 
(BROADCASTING, Nov. 16). 

The effect of these per episode deficits 
has been to make the alternative of half- 
hours shows with a potentially lucrative 
after-life in svndication increasingly at- 
tractive. 

Weekly first-run half hours offered 
both stations and producers a chance to 
get more of a good thing. Fora producer, 
such as a studio, with a limited number 
of holes in a network schedule, produc- 
ing for first-run syndication offers anoth- 
er way to build up episodes of a poten- 
tially lucrative syndication. 

For stations, first run syndication also 
offered the opportunity to negotiate 


deals for back-end strips at the time the 
first-run was purchased. The allure of 
such a deal was the relative discount in 
price compared to an off-network prop- 
erty. 

The initiation of marketing of some of 
the more than 20 half-hours that syndica- 
tors are currently sitting on has been ai 
fected by difficult marketplace condi- 
tions that have carried over from last 
season, Stations have experienced a 
downturn national spot revenues. 
TVB recently revised its projections for 
national spot growth this yearfrom 5-7% 


Viacom's ‘Cosby’ 
down to 3-5%. After à modest growth of 
2.9% in the third quarter, stations are 
experiencing a sluggish fourth quarter, 
according to stations and reps. Stations 
usually experience an upturn in spot rev- 
enues during the fourth quarter holiday 
season. 

The sluggishness comes despite pre- 
dictions for a better year in advertising 
for the station community. An upturn is 
expected to reflect events including the 
Olympics and national and local elec- 
tions. 

Another factor cited as potentially de- 
pressing the half-hour markct is a morc 
cautious buying attitude by some sta- 
tions following a number of station bank- 
ruptcies in the past year. 

“The marketplace is not gushing with 
bucks," said Farrell Meisel, director of 
programing at wwor-Ty New York. 
“It’s holding people back. Stations are 
trying to be more responsible” with their 
programing purchases, said Meisel, for- 
mer vice president of programing at the 
rep-firm Seltel. 

Barry Thurston, president of syndica- 
tion, Columbia/Embassy, views that at- 
titude among stations as constructive for 
the business. "We're bottoming out of 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


that. We’re in a period where people will 
be getting stronger. We've seen the 
worst of it," he said, adding that station 
revenues generally lag six to 12 months 
behind ratings. And with the November 
book not in yet, he said the market has a 
ways to go before it settles down. 

“A sense of reality is returning to the 
marketplace,” said Michael Lambert, 
executive vice president, 20th Century 
Fox domestic distribution. But Lambert 
said that given the instability among 
some stations “the кк days for half 
hours of three or four years ago are 
over." 

At Lorimar Svndication—the first 
company to syndicate a first-run weekly 
sitcom since D.L. Taffner sold Too 
Close for Comfort as a strip—Jim 
McGillan, president of syndication said 
that the pace of sales for It’s a Living 
has been “slower than expected." Lori- 
mar began sales of that show in mid- 


ау. 

McGillan said that inability to meet 
initial sales projections beyond the 48 
markets that Lorimar has cleared so far 
reflect the slow advertising marketplace 
and the conservative buying attitudes of 
stations 

McGillan also said that Lorimar has 
had little luck in launching the marketing 
of the offcable property Down to 
Earth. 

McGillan said that Lorimar's market- 
ing of It's a Living on an incentive ba- 
sis—giving stations "а more reason- 
able" price with an incentive clause for 
Lorimar if the show exceeds expecta- 
tions—also reflects the current market- 
place. 

For other syndicators of first-run sit- 
coms that have built up enough episodes 
to be sold as strips, Lorimar's experi- 
ence is not encouraging. In a number of 
cases, syndicators got station groups to 
take an equity interest in the show to 
spread the risk. Small Wonder, for ex- 
ample, is a production of Fox and the 
New Program Group, originally com- 
prised of the Storer, Hearst, Gannett, 
Taft and the Fox station groups. With 
the cost of such shows averaging 
$350,000 per episode, such financing is 
vital to avoiding a production deficit, 
which half-hours are experiencing these 
days. 

Some of the first-run shows that make 
it to strip could represent a break in pric- 
ing. In the “multi-tiered” half-hour mar- 
ketplace, “good buys” now exist for sta- 
tions, according to Mitchell Praver, vice 
president, director of programing, Katz 
Communications. He said that half- 
hours in the lower end of the market are 
bringing prices that are less than two- 


A Stephen J. Cannell Production 


WV TELEVENTLRES 


LOS ANGELES (213) 785-0111 » NEW YORK (212) 541-6040 


thirds of what top-end shows like Cosby 
and Boss are getting. 

“Yes there's an abundance of half- 
hours out there, and some are going for 
prices that are less top end,” said Greg 
Meidel, senior vice president, general 
sales manager at Paramount domestic 
television. Meidel said that Paramount 
has cleared Brothers in roughly 20 mar- 
kets since it began selling the show carli- 
er this year, according to rep and station 
sources. 

Paramount also produces Marbie- 
head Manor for the the NBC checker- 
board. Meidel said that in many of the 
markets that carry the show, Paramount 
made deals for the back-end strip when 
it sold the show upfront. The future of 
first-run sitcoms and their potential to 
provide stations with more half-four 
strips is now in the hands of stations he 
said. "There will be dividends for sta- 
tions as long as they support these 
shows," he said. "it's up to the sta- 
tions." 

Lorimar's experience with It’s a Liv- 
ing aside, whether the firsirun market 
will in fact produce enough shows in the 
long run to depress prices in the half- 
hour market is now an open question 
given the early ratings posted by the 
first-run sitcom checkerboard that runs 
on the NBC-owned stations, wCAU-TV 
Philadelphia and wXON(TV) Detroit 
(BROADCASTING, Nov 16). 

What happens to half-hour sales for 


the next big off-network properties 
launched in syndication remains to be 
seen. Bob Jacquemin, senior vice presi- 
dent at Buena Vista Television, which 
will begin the marketing of Golden 
Girls sometime in 1988 for a debut date 
that still to be determined, said the pric- 
ing tiers in the half-hour market are wid- 
ening between the premium network 
shows and other half-hours. “1 don't get 
the sense that the market is unreceptive. 
There are still substantial dollars out 
there." 

Network sitcoms that have been sold 
for syndication as strips in 1988 are: The 
Cosby Show, Night Court, Newhart, 
Kate and Allie. For 1989 they include 
Growing Pains, Who's the ‘Boss and 
Mr. Belvedere; and in 1991, Head of 
the Class. Among network shows wait- 
ing in the wings, but not yet marketed in 
syndication, are Golden Girls (avail- 
able as early as 1989),Perfect Strang- 
ers, and 227 (available as early as 1990) 
and ALF, Amen, Designing Women, 
My Sister Sam and Valerie's Family 
(available as early as 1991). 

Among the first-run weekly syndicat- 
ed sitcoms available as strips beginning 
1988 are 9 to 5, What's Happening 
Now and It’s a Living (for a March 
start). In 1989: Charles in Charge, The 
New Gidget, The New Monkees, 
Small Wonder, That's My Mama 
Now (March, 1988) and It's a Living, 
Throb and Check it Out become avail- 


able as strips. 

The five sitcoms coming from the ca- 
ble networks in the next two years in- 
clude: Down to Earth in 1988 (WTBS), 
and Brothers (Showtime), Rocky 
Road (The Nashville Network), Safe at 
Home, and Still the Beaver for 1989. 


Women are 
disappearing 
from TV 


Working women group counts 
tewer females in big roles 

in new season but sees old 
stereotypes at last fading 


The fall lineup of new TV shows re- 
vealed a "sharp downturn" in the num- 
berof women with leading roles, accord- 
ing to thc National Commission on 
Working Women, which recently 
merged with an organization called Wid- 
er Opportunities for Women. 

"After many seasons where the num- 
ber of women on TV has either grown or 
remained steady, an alarmingly high per- 
centage of the 26 programs premiering 
this scason are all-male series," the 
study said. 

The group's sixth annual review of 
new TV seasons, entitled Women Out 
of Vicw," found that only seven of the 


Viacom Enterprises kicked off distribution of Double Dare, Ihe 
half-hour children's game show strip now carried by Viecom-owned 
basic cable Service Nickelodeon, by announcing that all of the Fox- 
‘owned stations are clearances fot Double Dare when it begins its 
Tun in syndication in February 1988. Double Dare is a half-hour 
show in which teams of 10-13-year-olds vie for the right to run a 60- 
second obstacle course featuring chocolate sundae slides and en- 
counters with green slime. In syndication, the show could, its pro- 
ducers hope, fill a niche on independents by providing a demo- 
graphic bridge between blocks of animation in the afternoon and 
blocks of off-network sitcoms in the early evening (BROADCASTING, 
Nov. 2). Fox-owned stations will carry Double Dare following Duck 
Tails, this season's highest-rated animated strip, distributed by 
Buena Vista Television, Six of the Fox stations carry Duck Tails. 
Viacom president of domestic syndication, Joe Zaleski, said that 
iacom will nat restrict itself to independents for clearances. He 
believes that the possible “cult appeal” of the program among 
college students and adults should make it attractive to affilites as 
| well. Sources put Double Dare's annual production budget al un- 
| der$10 million, There will be 26 weeks of new first-run episodes and 
26 weeks of repeats, which Viacom will distribute on a barter basis 
with four minutes for stations апо4%% for itself. 

Worldvision Enterprises is offering two "softer" С5-ерізосе ani- 
mated strips produced by Hanna-Barbera Productions for fall 
1988 The Yogi Bear Show and the Snorks. The Yogi Bear 
Show will comprise 30 years worth of episodes of other animated 
shows featuring Yogi, who debuted in 1956 as a supporting charac- 
ler in The Huckleberry Hound Show. The model tor his character 
was АП Carney's Ed Norton of The Honeymooners. The Snorks is à 
joint production with SEPP, S.A. of Belgium Forty-two new half-hour 
episodes of the series will be produced to join the 23 off-notwork 
episodes. Snorks are brightly colored sea creatures related to the 
Smurfs. Worldvision will distribute The Snorks episodes on the 
same barter basis as The Yogi Bear Show, 

Barris Industries has decided to put The Gong Show into syndi- 


Syndicationaiarketplace 


cation for a fall 1988 start. The show will be hosted by Don Blue and 
will feature a panel including former professional football player 
John Matuszak, actress Candy Clark, and David Leisure (of the 
Isuzu commercials— "you have my word on 1") Marketing of the 
show under new Barris sales head Bob Cook began two weeks ago 
with a recently shot pilot. Sales will be on a cash-plus-barter basis 
with Barris holding one minute and stations getting five-and-a-half 
minutes. Chris Beard will be executive producer. Beard has an 
exclusive five-year exclusive deal with Barris. Cook said that Barris 
1з also “revamping” two other Barris productions, The New Newly- 
wed Game and The All New Dating Game. 

Liddy, а one-hour "conlrontalional" talk show hosted by Water- 
gate figure G. Gordon Liddy and syndicated for fall 1988 by All 
American Television, will feature arena-like set with Liddy and his 
Quest seated opposite one another before an audience of 300. Liddy 
has said that he will seek controntation and controversy on the show, 
but that it will not be "shock radio with pictures." A pilot for the show 
will be shot in December in Los Angeles. All American is selling the 
Scotti Vinnedge Television Inc. production on a cash basis. 


Multimedia Entertainment recently began group presentations 
of Sweethearts. а new game show hosted by Charles Nelson Reilly 
and produced by Richard Reid Productions in association with 
Createl Ltd. and Multimedia. Sweethearts involves three couples, 
only one of which is married, relating anecdates about their "mar- 
riage.” The contestant attempts to discover which is the real married 
couple. There will be 39 weeks of first-run episodes and 13 weeks of 
repeats that will be sold for cash-plus-one-minute for a fall 1988. 
start. 


MTM Productions will tape a pilot on Dec. 5 for a proposed halt- 
hour series called Flashpoint, featuring conservative wABC(AM) 
New York radio host Bob Grant against liberal Miami radio person- 
ality Steve Kane. The pilot will be taped at Times Square Studios in 
New York. Former Donahue executive producer Richard Mincer 
will be executive producer of the pilot. 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


43 leading roles on the new shows are 
held by women and that 19% of the new 
shows have no female characters. In 
many other programs, the study said, 
women have only minor supporting 
roles and irrelevant to the action. “This 
return of male-dominated programs 
halts Hollywood's slow but steady рго- 
gress toward equitable portrayals of 
women on TV," the review concluded. 

The report was released at a luncheon 
in Washington honoring the winners of 
the “1987 Women at Work Broadcast 
Awards.” There were 10 first-place win- 
ners: A special achievement award, the 
"Commissioners Award" was present- 
ed to Cagney and Lacey for setting the 
standard for women on television. The 
awards followed a three-day conference 
that focused on training low-income 
women and displaced homemakers to be 
self-sufficient. 

While decrying the lack of major roles 
for women in the new fall shows, the 
report said women are being more realis- 
tically portrayed, "Although the domi- 
nant female profile on TV is still that ofa 
young, white and single woman who is 


professional, that profile is losing some 
dominance, as working class "males 
and women in nonprofessional jobs are 
beginning to inch their way back on the 
screen after disappearing for almost a 
decade," the report said. 

“We are pleased to see female charac- 
ters who аге not wealthy corporate pres- 
idents," said commi: ion Chairman 
Alexis Herman. “Diverse, realistic im- 
ages of women have been off the screen 
for too long, and their reappearance is 
welcome.” She cited Frank’s Place as 
a show that breaks new ground by intro- 
ducing black female characters "who 
are varied and authentic." 

The report said that "TV's portrayal 
of families is beginning to acknowledge 
the pressures of combining work and 
family life, in contrast to past seasons, 
hen. juggling parent/worker/spouse 
roles was portrayed as quite effortless.” 

But Herman complained that the pro- 
portion of single men raising children on 
ТУ is “many times more than in the real 
world." The report says two-thirds of all 
children in single-parent homes on the 
new shows live with men, while in reali- 


ty 90% live with their mothers. 

The commission also cited My Two 
Dads for containing scenes that are of- 
fensive to women. “Television this year 
has given us scenes that have been as 
flagrantly demeaning for women as any 
that have aired,” said commission mem- 
ber, Betty Thomas, who played officer 
Lucy Bates on Hill Street Blues. 

Although there is less sexual violence 
on TV this season—perhaps an unin- 
tended result of fewer women in the 
shows—the report complained that over 
all the shows prescnt a new world in 
which men and women rarely interact. 

“Relegating women to the sidelines or 
banishing them from programs altogeth- 
er solves a number knotty of problems, " 
the report said. "For one, it avoids the 
dilemma of how to portray sexual re- 
sponsibility and sexual practices 

"Furthermore, it allows TV writers, 
most of whom are men, to create more 
male characters, which is what many 
know best,” the report said, adding that 

"a lineup of male action shows is a 
strong attempt to lure disappearing men 
TV viewers back to the set." 


NBC takes week eight 


Nielsen 


Ed 


лов Neison Net AGB 
1. 339/51 N Cosby Show 1. 9 36. 13.6/21 С Jake and the Fatman 30. 15.7/25 
2. 264/48 N Cheers 2. 263/40 37. 13.6/20 C Kate & Allie 27. 4 
3. 25.837 A Growing Pains 10. 214/33 38. 13.3/21 A Napol. & Josephine, 3 53. 11.4/19 
4. 24.7138 М Night Court 6. 232/37 39. 13.1/20 A Disney Sunday Movie 51. 11.6/18 
5. 23.7186 C 60 Minutes 3. 248/38 40. 13.1/23 C BeautyandtheBeast 35. 14/24 
6. 23.436 A Who's the Boss 11. 20.7/33 41. 13/22 N St Elsewhere 42. 13.1/24 
7. 222/39 М Golden Girls 5. 247/42 42. 12.9/20 М A Year in the Life 48. 12,4/20 
B. 221/34 М Monday Night Movies 15. 19.3/31 43. 12.8/21 C Equalizer 39. 13.7/25 
9. 209/34 C CBS Sunday Movie 7. 2280/37 44, 12.5/23 A 20/20 37. 13.9/26 
10. 20.8/31 C Murder, She Wrote 4. 24.7136 45. 12/20 C Cagney & Lacey 41. 13.2/23 
11. 20.1/33 N L.A. Law 18. 18.3/32 46. 12.18 N JJ. Starbuck 43. 12.9/20 
12. 18.9/28 A Head of the Class ?1 18/29 47. 11718 А Dolly 55. 11.116 
18. 189/28 М Alf 13. 19.9/30 48. 11.7/18 C Wiseguy 46. 12.4/19 
14. 18.7/33 М 227 9. 215/37 49. 11.78 C Frank's Place 36. 14/21 
15. 18.6/30 A  Napol.&Josephine, 1 28. 16.1/27 50. 11.7/21 N Crime Story 45. 12.5/22 
16. 18.1/28 A Perfect Strangers 29. 16/26 51. 11.517 А Spenser: For Hire 64. 9.143 
17. 18.1/27 М Family Ties 12. 19.9/29 52. 11.4/19 А Mr. Belvedere 50. 11.6/19 
18. 18.35 N Hunter 16. 18.9/36 53. 11.38/17 N Our House 44. 12.7/20 
18. 178/732 N Amen B. 218/37 54 11.119 N Rags to Riches 47. 124/21 
20. 173/28 C Dallas 23. 16.7/28 55. 10.7/20 N Private Eye 58. 10.7/20 
21. 171/26 N Matlock 22. 17.9/28 56. 10.4/18 A | Married Dora 56. 11/19 
22. 16.6/26 М NBC Sunday Movie 24. 16.5/26 57. 10.446 C Pee Wee's Playhouse 62. 94/15 
23. 16.4/24 С Newhart 20, 18.1/27 58. 10.218 C Law and Harry McGraw En 11.5/20 
24. 16.404 N Valerie's Family 26. 16.2/24 59. 10.1/18 A Full House 4. 11.8/20 
25. 16.424 N My Two Dads 17. 18.5/27 60. 9.5/14 C Tour of Duty B 11.17 
26. 16.2/26 А Napol. & Josephine, 2 34. 14.4/25 61. 9.2/15 A Pursuit of Happiness 60. 9.8/16 
27. 16.1/29 N Facts of Life 14. 19.4/33 62. 9.1/15 A Buck James 69. 69/3 
28. 15.9/27 A Monday Night Football 38. 13.8/24 63. 8.8/15 А Ohara 67. 81/14 
29. 15.6/24 N Highway to Heaven 19. 18.2/29 64. 8.3/16 A Hotel 65. 87/17 
30. 15.2/22 C Designing Women 25, 16.4/25 65. 8.2/12 C Houston Knights 59. 9.8/16 
31. 14.4/27 C Falcon Crest 33. 144/27 66. 79/14 A Sable 70. 65/11 
32. 143/23 А MacGyver 49. 11.98 67. 7.712 A Sledge Hammer 66. 8313 
33. 143/24 C Knots Landing 40. 13.6/24 68. 7.513 C CBS Saturday Movie 61. 9.7/7 
34. 14.1/23 N Miami Vice 32. 14.5/24 69. 6.943 C West57th 63. 9.318 
35. 138/21 C Magnum, P.I. 31. 14.8/24 70. 6.3/9 А Charmings 68. 74/11 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


Third quarter: TCI, Comcast, Turner, Disney, QVC 


Losses for two MSO's, Turn 
Disney reports record high; 
QVC comes in with its first results 


Tele-Communications Inc., the cable 
TV industry's largest multiple system 
operator, and Comcast, a top 10 cable 
MSO, both registered net losses for the 
third quarter ending Sept. 30, 

Among other media companies re- 
porting quarterly results last week were 
Walt Disney Co., which said it recorded 
the highest fourth-quarter and fiscal- 
year revenues and net income in its his- 
tory, and Turner Broadcasting, which 
reported a $38-million loss for the third 
quarter ("In Brief,” Nov. 16). 

Cable Shopping channel QVC Net- 
work reported its first quarterly earning 
since beginning full-time operations in 
January 1987. 


Communications (one mi 
ers) last August for $892 million. Interest 
expense for the quarter nearly tripled 
over the same period last year to more 
than $94 million, while depreciation and 
amortization expenses rose by 158% to 
$81 million. 

ТСГ quarterly revenue and cash flow 

ures were far more positive, reflecting 
both the new acquisitions and, accord- 
ing to the company, growth in subscriber 
levels and increases in rates. Revenue 
for the quarter was $474 million, 191% 
higher than last year’s quarter. Cash 
flow (income before depreciation and 
amortization and interest expense) was 
$188 million, 152% above the 1986 third- 
quarter figure. 

The cable operator’s carnings were 
also down for the first nine months of the 
year at $41 million, off 25% from the 
year-ago figures. Revenue was up 162%, 
however, to $1.245 billion. Cash flow for 
the year to date was also up by 130% to 
$486 mil 


illion. 

The nine-month results reflect the 
company's acquisitions at the end of last 
year of cable system-movie theater op- 
erator United Artists Communications 
Inc. for $500 million, and of a portion of 
Group W Cable, as well as the Heritage 
purchase. TCI said at year end it will 
have approximately 5,166,000 basic and 
3,488,000 pay TV subscribers in 45 
states. 

TCI also said that as of last Nov. 5, it 
had spent approximately $85 million for 
the repurchase of stock and unexercised 
warrents as part of a plan announced 
Oct. 20 to buy back 10 million shares of 
the company's common stock. 


Comcast, which reported record revc- 
nue and operating cash flow for the third 
quarter, said its $1 16,000 one cent-per- 
share loss was due to "accounting con- 
ventions and financing costs” associat- 
ed with its Group W Cable and Indianap- 
olis Cablevision acquisitions. In 1986's 
third quarter, the company also reported 
losses of $632,000. 

Comcast revenues for the quarter 
more than doubled to $80 million from 
last year’s $33 million, while operating 
cash flow (before depreciation, amorti- 
zation and investment expense) was up 
164% to $29 million. For the ycar-to- 
date, the company had losses of $9 mil- 
lion on $225 million in revenue, with an 
operating cash flow of $79 million. 

The cable operator, which said its bal- 
ance sheet includes more than $220 mi 
lion in cash and short-term investmei 
has more than 1,280,000 subscribers, iı 
cluding 232,000 in systems managed for 
limited partnerships in which Comcast 
subsidiaries are general partners. The 
company does not include the opera- 
tions of those partnership systems in its 
financial results, although it accounts for 
management fees from the systems. 

Walt Disney Co. reported substantial- 
ly higher revenue, net income and oper- 
ating income for both its fourth quarter 
ending Sept. 30 and for its fiscal year, 
with improvements from its three busi- 
ness segments: filmed entertainment, 
theme parks and resorts and consumer 
products. 

Fourth-quarter revenue for the com- 
pany as a whole climbed 21% over the 
year-ago period to $759 million; quarter- 
ly net income shot up 67% to 135 million, 
or 98 cents per share, and operating 
come was 30% higher at $201 million. 

For the year, Disney's revenue wasup 
33% to $2.877 billion; net income grew 
80% to $445 million, or $3.23 per share, 
and operating income increased 47% to 
$777 million. (Net income from discon- 
tinued operations for the year was $52 
million.) 

According to Disney, gains in the 
filmed entertainment business segment 
were driven by domestic syndication of 
two Disney library packages reported 
mainly in the first quarter, successful 
theatrical releases and improving do- 
mestic home video sales, as well as li- 
censing of feature films for pay TV and 
growth of The Disney Channel on cable 


The segment reported quarterly reve- 
nues 34% higher than last year's at $185 
million, with пре the operating income 
at $13 million. Fiscal-year revenue was 
up 71% to $876 million and operating 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1887 


income climbed 15396 to 131 million. 

Disney also said corporate expenses 
were down from $25 million to $4 mi 
for the quarter and from $106 million to 
$50 million for the year, largely duc to a 
reduction in interest expense from lower 
average borrowings and interest rates 
and from higher investment and interest 
income. 

Turner Broadcasting System's quar- 
ter results were not as positive, although 
the company’s $38-million, $1.13-per- 
share loss for the period was less than 
the $44.3-million, $3.52-per-share loss 
suffered a year ago. For the year to date, 
the company registered a net loss of $104 
million, compared to a $121-million loss 
for the same nine-month period in 1986. 

Turner’s losses are tied to the compa- 
ny’s heavy debt burden, with $53 million 
paid out in interest expenses (net of in- 
teres income) for the quarter and %157 
million in interest expenses paid out for 
the year so far. 

Revenue was down 3% for the third 
quarter to $152 million; while operating 
income (income before depreciation, 
amortization and debt service) was 
ear, revenue was u 
1596 over the previous year to $459 mil- 
lion and operating income was up by half 
to $153 million. 

"The bulk of Turner's revenue contin- 
ues to come from its broadcasting hold- 
ings, although earnings there were down 
14% to $5] million for the quarter and 
flat for the year. Cable productions, up 
for the quarter and the year, accounted 
for $48.9 million of the quarterly revenue 
and $147 million of the annual revenue . 
Turner's syndication and licensing reve- 
nue was down for the quarter to $33 mil- 
lion, but up by a third for the year to $105 
million. 

Operating income was up for cable to 
515 million and for broadcasting to $22 
million, while down for syndication and 
licensing to $15 million. On the cost and 
expenses side, broadcasting was down 
38% for the quarter to $28 million, while 
cable productions were up 22% to $35 
million, and the syndication and licens- 
ing category more than doubled to $18 
million. 

Cable shopping service QVC had net 
earnings for the third quarter of 
$840,000, or five cents per share, on net 
billings of more than $34 million. the 
company had reported a second-quarter 
loss of $1.4 million on $21 million in net 
billings and first-quarter losses of $6.3 
million on net billings of $11 million. Net 
billings consist of all sales, less a reserve 
for returns, and include billing of mer- 
chandise supplied to QVC by Sears, 


Roebuck & Co. on a commission basis. 

QVC, which expects to ship its two- 
millionth order by the end of November, 
said it is "confident" of exceeding its 
goal of $100 million in net billings in its 
first full fiscal year. the channel reaches 
over 10 million homes on 900 cable sys- 
tems in 45 states. 


How to compete with 
newspapers: advice 
from the competition 


Ex-newspaperman tells TVB 
how he thinks TV can tap 
bigger parts of retail budgets 


It has been well documented that news- 
papers are no longer the primary source 
of news for most Americans—television 
has assumed that role. But retailers shun 
television for the most part, handing 
close to 80% of their advertising budgets 
10 newspapers. The ability of newspa- 
pers to maintain such a dominant share 
of the local retail business is due in large 
part to the success of that medium in 
persuading retailers that it delivers a 
more upscale audience and that new- 
papers are far more efficient in reaching 
the audience that retailers want to reach. 

To help members attending the Tele- 
vision Bureau of Advertising conference 
(BROADCASTING, Nov. 16) compete 
more effectively with their newspaper 
competition, TVB brought in a former 
newspaper marketing executive—Herb 
Moloney—to provide perspective from 
the other side. 

Moloney, now with Knight-Ridder's 
WPRI-TV Providence, R.I., was with the 
company’s newpaper division for 13 
years, most recently as retail advertising 
manager for the Miami Herald 

"Don't shoot the messenger," said 
Moloney, before outlining the pitch 
newpapers use against television: that 
newspapers reach more upscale adults, 
provide more detail about products, 
couponing and flexibility of size of ad- 
verlisements. Moloney cited research 
indicating that, on average, newpapers 
reach 80% of adults earning $35,000 or 
more. Close to 6026 of shoppers sur- 
veyed said they read the paper before 
shopping. 

Moloney also said newspaper sales- 
people cite television's limited reach of 
target customers, the fragmented televi- 
i nce, and what they say is the 
low recall of television ads, Newspa- 
pers, said Moloney, also point to rea- 
search indicating that 40% of adults do 
60% of all television viewing and that the 
heavier viewers are more “downscale,"’ 
and not the viewers to whom many retail 
products are targeted. 

Newspapers, said Moloney, have en- 
tered a brave new world, pioneered by 
USA Today, where color is “credible” 
attractive to readers. They are also ag- 
gressive in pricing and positioning, he 
said, and cutting deals from rate cards, a 


practice once considered "'unaccept- 
able." 

“To sell against the success of news- 
papers does not work," said Moloney. 
Television must scarch for additional 
ways to sell, and continue to position 
itself as “the powerful medium that it 
is." He said television must “convince 
print users that when television and print 
are combined, television will move 
product and increase sales." A case can 
be made, he said, that by proposing that 
a client shift 10% or 15% of his print 
advertising budget to television, the re- 
sult will be increased gross rating points 
at lower cost-per-thousand rates. 

Although rates are usually the same 
for a newspaper ad, regardless of the 
section, readership by section varies as 
much as 50%, “Print users can be shown 
how television can complement print 
and target potential customers not 
reached by newpapers.”” 

Newspapers, as a rule, provide free 
production advertisements for retail cli- 
ents. “We should develop packages that 
include production and facilitate price 


and item advertising," said Moloney. 
“If retailers like the main news environ- 
ment in newspapers, why not put togeth- 
er news packages that include weekly 
production of price and item advertis- 
ing." 

New business development efforts, 
said Moloney, may be aided by tracking 
print ads in the following wecks, which, 
leading into the holiday season, are the 
heaviest weeks for retail print advertis- 
ing. “Last November, | measured every 
ad that ran in the Providence Journal 
Thanksgiving week," said Moloney. "1 
categorized the Jowrnal's business and 
compared their strengths and weakness- 
es to ours. This provided me with a road 
map that guided us to potential cate; 
ries for new business development." He 
said that before potential new clients are 
pitched, they should be surveyed to de- 
termine their specific marketing goals. 

Moloney stressed that aggressive 
campaigns against competing television 
stations in the market could be counter 
productive. "It erodes buyers' confi- 
dence in television." 


stati 


approximately $572 million 


BottomaLine 


Early Christmas. NBC President Robert Wright, citing "steady, loyal effort" of 
some §,000 company employes who continued working during recent 17-week 
sirike by 2,800 technicians and others, offered "gift of 10 shares of General 
Electric stock to each. Stock was valued at approximately $43-per-share at time of 
giveaway, making cost to NBC just over $2 million. Union which represented 
striking employes had no official reaction to move, but one spokesman said it 
“rubbed salt in the wound" of strikers returning to duty at the beginning of 
November. In personalized letter to NBC employes receiving stock, Wright wrote: 
"Just as you have invested your best in the company, the company is investing in 
you. I's a way of saying that NBC's people are its most valuable commodity." 


Helping hand, National Association of Broadcasters has new television financial 
monitoring system allowing stations to compare their performance with similar 

s based on type of station, ADI, region and other factors. System 
developed in consultation with Denver-based consultants Browne, Bortz & 
Coddington, uses financial data collected in yearly survey by NAB and Broadcast 
Financial Management Association, and produces 40-80-page report comparing 
stations’ revenue, expenses, ratings and market dala and offering trend analyses 
and other information. Cost of service varies from $100 to $400 per report, 
depending on NAB membership and number of reports ordered. 


No deal Dun & Bradstreet Corp. has ended $500-million-plus bid for Information 
Resources Inc., following Federal Trade Commission opposition to deal on antitrust 
grounds. Dun & Bradstreet agreed in August to acquire Information Resources and 
planned to merge it with D&B's Nielsen marketing and media research divisions to 
provide TV audience measurement services together with research in brand sales 
and product marketing. FTC last week, however, said merger "could substantially 
reduce competition in syndicaled nalional tracking services," and said it would 
seek federal court action to block acquisition. Deal would have provided iR's 
Shareholders with 8.54 million shares of D&B common Stock valued at time at 


Stock stake. Lorimar Telepictures stock shot up 87.5 cents to $9.75 last Monday, 
Nov. 18, after published reports financier Marvin Davis has taken 2% stake in 
company. Lorimar, which dropped back down to $9.25 last Tuesday and closed al 
$9.63 last Wednesday, is considered vulnerable to takeover bid because of 
precipitious drop in stock price after Oct. 19 market crash and relatively little 
stock ownership by insiders or company management. Lorimar has adopted 
stockholder rights plan, however, to protect against hostile bid if party buys 20% 
ог more or offers to buy 30% or more of company’s common stock. 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 
55 


1 


CPB head tells House Telcomsubcom 
that noncommercial services need 
more reliable revenue sources 


The House Telecommunications Sub- 
committee heard testimony last 
Wednesday (Nov. 18) on the state of 
public broadcasting. The consensus at 
the end of the three-hour session: It 
could work better with more money. 

Echoing the testimony of Public 
Broadcasting Service Bruce Christensen 
before the Senate Communications Sub- 
committee a week earlier (BROADCAST- 
ING, Nov. 16), Corporation for Public 
Broadcasting Chairman Howard Gutin 
said, "Public broadcasting needs first 
and foremost an „adequate, long-term 
source of funding." 

“Lack of funds has us all dancing a 
disturbing dancc, competing for limited 
resources-keeping us 1 om the business 
of creating special and unique program- 
ing," said Henry Hampton, president, 
Blackside Inc., which produced PBS se- 
ries Eyes on the Prize. 

Not ail the congressmen were sympa- 
thetic. Michael Oxley (R-Ohio) rebuked 
Gutin for CPB's request of nearly $600 


Guin 


a 150% increase in funding at a time 
when this body is scrambling to cut the 
deficit?" 

Money was not the only thing on the 
minds of the subcommittee members 
and witnesses. So were insuring fairness 
in public broadcasting’s programing and 
insulating programing decisions from 
politics. 

Thomas Bliley Jr. (R-Va.) asked Gutin 
whether the fairness doctrine ought to 
apply to public broadcasters, and specif- 
ically whether a program underwritten 
by а company that stands to profit from 
the program ought to be aired. 

Saying he believes in “fairness” and 
that CPB wants “lo be sensitive to 
underwriting issues," Gutin asked the 
congressman for an example and got 


million in fiscal 1991. “CPB is asking for 


Packwood heaped praise upon 


1 gon't know which i would put highest.” 


man}, you are some lady.” 


Smooth sailing for Dawson. The nomination of FCC Commissioner Mimi Weyforth Daw- 
son to depuly Secretary of transportation was headed for a speedy Senate confirmation 
last Friday (Nov. 20) Her appointment was expected to breeze through the upper cham- 
ber. Dawson appeared at a Senate Commerce Committee confirmation hearing early last 
week; Commerce approved the nomination last Thursday. 

During the hearing, she received a rousing endorsement from one of the committee's 
ranking Republicans, Bob Packwood of Oregon. Dawson is a former chief of staff to 
Packwood; ne helped her get the FCC seat in 1981 (see "Top of the Week"). | 


Dawson; he called her an "extraordinary manager. .there are so many talents that she has, 
Packwood was so complimentary that Commerce | 
Committee Chairman Ernest Hollings (0-5.С ) said "That's the strangest recommendation | 
we've had on this committee.” And he told the FCC commissioner: "If you can please both 
Senator Packwood and John Dingell [House Energy and Commerce Committee chair- 


In discussing her regulatory philosophy, Dawson said she was a “believer in economic 
deregulation.” But she added: “1 don't stick my head in Ihe sand and say deregulation is a 
panacea and that nothing goes wrong. | will make sure when there is а problem, | will look 
at it and it something needs to be done in terms of reragulation, | will do it. 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1 
BR 


Tauke (I) and Bliley 


one: Showdown on Tobacco Road, a 
one-hour documentary about smoking, 
which aired this month on PBS and, ac- 
cording to Bliley, was underwritten by 
“a company that manufactures а drug to 
help smokers quit smoking." 

After the hearing, PBS spokesman Stu 
Kantor told BROADASTING that the doc- 
umentary was underwritten by Merrill 
Dow Pharmaceuticals Inc., a subsidiary 
of which manufacturers a prescription, 
stop-smoking drug called “Nicorette” 
Kantor said also that PBS had been ap- 
prised of this situation while the program 
was still in production. The question of 
underwriter influence is '`а real one here 
[at PBS]," Kantor said, but after assur- 
ances from the producer, Maine-based 
Varied Directions, and presenting 
broadcaster, Connecticut Public Televi- 
sion, that the underwriter would exer- 
cise no influence over the program, PBS 
decided to go ahead. 

Answering a question from Al Swift 
(D-Wash.) concerning CPB's role in pro- 
viding “insulation” between political 
forces and public broadcasting entities, 
Sharon Percy Rockefeller acknowl- 
edged that “аз CPB chair, 1 was leaned 
on from time to time,” and that “роіеп- 
tial for abuse at CPB is widespread.” 
But, she said, “It is the [board] me! 
ber's responsibility to say, No. 

John Wicklein, director, Kiplinger 
Midcareer Program in Public Affairs Re- 
porting, Ohio State University journal- 
ism school, and former NPR news direc- 
tor, said, "I have had pressure from 
board members to do or not do pro- 
grams." He also said that self-censor- 
ship by public broadcasting stations and 
other public broadcasting entities was 
the common result of both that pressure 
and the entire annual appropriations 
process. 


Tom Tauke (R-Iowa) asked whether 
“the original objectives of the 20-year- 
old Public Broadcasting Act are valid to- 
day” and suggested that “а new study 
by the Carnegie Institute or other similar 
institution" would be desirable at this 
timc. 


Co-op Pro: Uncovers More 
Co-op Money For Your Accounts 


ercis 


Û Return to: 

|| Standard Rate & Data Service, Inc. 

|] Coop Services Division 

2994 Stove Ra, ineo econ 


...And More Ad Revenue For You! 


With Co-op Pro™and your help, your retail accounts will be using their co-op funds, 
not losing them! 

Derived from the same database that produces the Co-op Source Directory, 
Co-op Pro simplifies the entire co-op sales process. Diskettes compatible with most 
personai computers enable you to store and retrieve information on over 4,000 
co-op programs—a total of 15,000 brand names! In minutes you can locate co-op 
programs available in any of 52 product classifications and easily extract the 
information you need. 

With Co-op Pro you can let your retail accounts know exaclly which co-op 
programs expire on December 31st, show them all the manufacturers who offer 
unlimited accruals, or tell them which manufacturers offer 100% participation. 
Co-op Pro gives you the information you need to close the sale on your very 
first call! 

Best of ail, Co-op Pro is affordable for every size business—and incredibly easy to 
use. Even if you've never used a computer before, you'll be generating valuable 
reports in minutes! 

If you'd like more information about increasing your sales with Co-op Pro, return 
the attached coupon, or call Dave Johnston or Amy Zarnowski at 1-800-323-4601, 
in Illinois call (312)441-2134. 

Co-op Pro™ is a trademark of Standard Rate & Data Service, Inc. 


———————————————————-——-----------—-----A 


Yes! | want to increase my ad revenue with Co-op Pro! acu 
О Please send me more information about Co-op Pro. 


П 
I 
I 
Name П 
Title | 
П 
П] 
П 
П 
1 


Company 
Address 
City/State/Zip 
Telephone. 


A ea eet | 


Ginsburg under glass 


Conflict of interest at Issue 
in judge's work on cable cases 
while he was Justice official 


The revelation that Judge Douglas H. 
Ginsburg owned $140,000 in convertible 
bonds in a cable company at the time he 
was a high Justice Department official 
involved in a major cable television case 
generated the first, if not the final, con- 
troversy that resulted in his withdrawal 
as President Reagan's nominee to the 
Supreme Court. The Justice Department 


is now engaged in the first step of the 
process of determining whether a special 
prosecutor should be appointed to inves- 
tigate the possibility of Ginsburg's in- 
volvement in a confiict of interest. 

The Office of Government Ethics, in 
the Office of Personnel Management, 
had originally referred the matter to Jus- 
tice. “We were concerned about the ap- 
pearance issue,” said the acting director 
of the ethics office, Donald E. Campbell. 
“Ви the basic request," he said, **was 
whether there was a Section 208 prob- 


lem"—that is, a violation of the criminal 
conflict of interest statute. 

At present, Justice’s Public Integrity 
Section is conducting what officials call 
“a threshold" inquiry. Although it is not 
specified in the Ethics in Government 
Act, the Justice Department employs it 
to determine if a "preliminary" investi- 
gation is warranted. That, in turn, would 
lead to a decision as to whether there are 
sufficient grounds for an investigation 
by a special prosecutor, formally known 
as an independent counsel. The prosecu- 
tor is named by a special three-judge 
court. The law requires the department 
to conclude its investigation within 90 
days, 


Mass Media chief high on high definition 


FCC's Felker says commission is 
committed to fostering improved TV; 
expresses belief in marketplace 


“For now, advanced TV technology is 
one of the most exciting features on the 
mass media landscape," Alex Felker, 
chief of the FCC's Mass Media Bureau 
told a group of broadcasters at the se- 
cond annual convention of the Society of 
Broadcast Engineers in St. Louis. 

Felker, who spoke at a luncheon at the 
A.J. Cervantes Convention Center, also 
reaffirmed the commission’s belief in 
marketplace over regulatory solutions to 
technical issues, 

‘Among the FCC priorities, he said, is 
the “creation of market incentives that 
could result in more efficient and opti- 
mal results" 

High-definition television, which is 
being addressed in an FCC inquiry, was 
taken up by the upper tier of the commis- 
sion's ATV advisory committee which 
met last week for the first time. 

As for the FCC, Felker said that one 
area where the commission will have to 
make a decision is spectrum allocation. 
“The issue here is whether the value to 
society of applying additional spectrum 
capacity to advanced television out- 
weighs the value of the alternative serv- 
ices that could also use these frequen- 
cies,” he said. 

Going into the proceeding, he said, the 
commission has felt that it would be dif- 
ficult to get enough information to find 
an optimal solution. That is why the 
commission's notice of inquiry asked 
whether some form of spectrum sharing 
between broadcasters and alternative 
services could be an option. 

More than 4,400 people attended the 
SBE convention sessions and cquip- 
ment exhibit, according to SBE spokes- 
man Doug Smith. Booths were reserved 
by 173 companies showing transmitters, 
graphics equipment, cameras and other 
gear. 


Another item of convention business 
was thc installation of Jack McKain, 
vice president and chief engineer of the 
Kansas State Network, Wichita, as the 
new president. He succeeds Richard A. 
Rudman, engineering manager of 
KFWB(AM) Los Angeles, who served two 
terms as president. 

In his speech, Felker also said that 
there are benefits and cost consider- 
ations in choosing an ATV standard. He 
said the FCC is examining three ap- 
proaches: a voluntary, nongovernmen- 
lal standard; a standard that includes a 
specific sunset date, and a system desi; 
protection, such as was done for the 
stereo TV pilot tone. Combinations of 
these three methods "could also work 
well,” he said. 

Felker told BROADCASTING that the 
FCC was considering these methods as 
possibly more efficient approaches, but 
that it had definitely not ruled out the 
possibility of traditional standard-set- 
ting. 

Whatever the outcome of the FCC 
proceeding, Felker said that HDTV will 
have to be available to all stations. Com- 
patibility of any transmission system 
with present NTSC sets will also be im- 
portant, "but we are open to the other 
Side," he sai 

As the deadline for comments at the 
FCC nears, and the ATV committee is 
beginning its work, Felker said that the 
only thing the FCC is committed to is the 
gathering of information. 

Felker said that since Dennis Patrick 
became FCC chairman in the midst of an 
era of deregulation, the most commonly 
asked question is “Where do we go from 
here?” 

In answer to a question, Felker said 
the commission's general approach to 
regulation will be to work toward the 
goal “to enhance the consumer’s wel- 
fare." Given the choice in most matters, 
he said, the market approach rather than 
government regulation is morc advanta- 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


geous. The market approach, he added, 
can "facilitate the adoption of new serv- 
ices that consumers may desire after 
changes in technology.” 

On the other hand, he said, govern- 
ment regulation is enforced uniformly, 
often without enough consideration for 
the details of individual cases and re- 
gional issues, “Governmental decisions 
are frequently in the absence of hard 
data," he said. The better role for gov- 
ernment is to be an instrument that 
makes markets work better by insuring 
that they are crowded with participants, 
he added. 

One thing that the philosophy of dereg- 
ulation does not mean is that “the com- 
mission is going to totally refrain from 
regulating technical matter." Again he 
said the overall consideration will be 
what is best for the public interest. "As 
far as the chairman is concerned, 'stan- 
dard' is not a bad word," Felker said. 
Whatever results in the best quality and 
increase in choices for listeners and 
viewers will influence the FCC. In some 
cases, he indicated, that might involve 
giving broadcasters more discretion on 
certain technical and nontechnical is- 
sues. 

In response to another question, 
Felker reaffirmed the commission's re- 
sistance to chosing an AM stereo stan- 
dard. He pointed out that marketplace 
forces have whittled the number of com- 
peting systems down to two and that 
starting a proceeding now “would be su- 
boptimal...If we're poing to pick one, 
we're not going to do it by fiat —we're 
going to do it by a rulemaking.” That 
could delay the eventual conclusion of 
the issue for another two years and com- 
plicate it even more if other companies 
propose new systems. 

As for his predecessor, Felker had 
only praise. ‘This has been a real boon 
to me, to step into a Mass Media Bureau 
that Jim McKinney had running like a 
well-oiled machine," he said. 


New team (Radstone, left, and Biondi) sots cut lo make the most of cld assets 


Starting over at Viacom 


For much of the last two years the news about Viacom has 
focused om first one and then another attempt to take over 
that diversified cable/broadcasting/programing company. 
Increasingly, the spotlight fell on Sumner Redstone and 
his National Amusements, whose bid eventually won. 
Now, with Redstone in the saddle and with Frank Biondi 
as chief executive officer, the focus shifts to the future. 
That’s the subject of this “At Large.” 


You went to a lot of trouble to get your hands on this 
company essentially. How has it turned out for you? 


Redstone: Ws turned out from every perspective to be 
more than 1 anticipated. better than I anticipated. From the 
standpoint of excitement, from the standpoint of what we 
saw in the company as a di ified company doíng exciting 
things in many different areas, and from the standpoint of 
the financial aspects-of the company. It's turned out to be 


more than we had anticipated. and we're really very 
pleased. 

Consider our results. In the last three-month period, our 
revenues were $256.5 million against $233.3 in 1986; our 
орегайп income for the quarter was $64.4 million versus 
551.7 million, and for the nine months, where our revenues 
were $745 million against $672.8 million, our cash flow, 
more importantly. was $180.8 million against $146.6 mil- 


Broadcastrg Nov 23 1987 


lion. So basically we had a 25% increase in cash flow and а 
10% increase in revenues. And of course those are the 
critical numbers for us and for the banks, They seem 
pleased. 


Is our Fifth Estate universe shifting into a cash flow uni- 
verse? 


Redstone: From our standpoint, the very nature of our 
financial undertakings says cash flow is the name of the 
game, so to speak. From what I read, it has been a cash flow 
universe for a long time. Certainly, motion picture theatres 
seem to be valued on a cash flow basis to a large extent, and 
you know that what happened to the multiples in the motion 
picture theatre business is largely as a result of the acceler- 
ating acquisition of motion picture theatres by producers 
and distributors. 


Biondi: Is your question: Is the emphasis more on cash 
flow? Because the entertainment and communications busi- 
ness has always been essentially а cash nds By and 
large, it never got the emphasis because most of the group 
owners were public companies who were emphasizing 
earnings. It's become more topical as people have begun to. 
use nontraditional financing sources. I mean, if there's a 
dollar marginal cash flow over what they can finance, 
they'll buy it. | 

From a management perspective, it's a lot easier to man- 
age for cash flow than it is to manage for cash flow and 
earnings. Putting the earnings on top of it allows so many 
gimmicks that are available to achicvc thc immediate goal 
of quarter to quarter compounding of earnings growth, it 
makes it much more complex. 


We want to ask you, Frank, what you bring to this pai 
ty—and it looks from the record to be primarily financ 
and programing expertise. Similarly, Sumner, we would 
like to ask what you bring to the 


Redstone: Well, 1 can answer both questions in a way. 
Among other things, I g to the party Frank Biondi. I 
consider that second to acquiring the company—well, no, 
first—acquiring the company, secondly getting it financed, 
But the clear triumph from my perspective was getting 
Frank aboard. 


Biondi: It’s a hard question to answer in the first person; 
it's much casier to do it about somconc else. 1 probably do. 
have a reputation for finance and programing—programing 
probably less deserved than finance. That comes more out 
of HBO and Coca-Cola, where I really wasn’t commission- 
ing programing, if you will. Before | was in the investment 
banking business, | was in the cable business—back in 1972 
when we were with Teleprompter—and I was buying sys- 
tems. So I knew a lot about the dynamics of cable before 
there was such a thing as pay television. 

Cable is not a terribly difficult business to understand. As 
in any business, there are certain nuances and rules, but 
once you've learned them, they don't tend to change that 
dramatically. 

The program business is far more Byzantine, and it's a 
much harder business for even a sophisticated financial 
executive or banker to figure out. But we are very big into 
it. There are a whole series of relationships, both in the pay 
business and television programing and the cable business. 
It’s relatively easy for me to sift through the issues in the 
company, as someone coming in the door as opposed to 
someone who's got to come from another company, a con- 
sumer package company, so there's a tremendous advan- 
tage on the learning curve. It’s been relatively easy to re- 
staff with very good people because we know where they 
are and we know what they can do and we know what their 
relative strengths and weaknesses are 

I'm not so sure my management style is all that conven- 
tional, but it's fairly effective. I mean, I've always enjoyed 
the ability to attra d people and work with good peo- 
ple, and that was principally at HBO and then at Coca-Cola. 

I'ma big believer in that the most important thing you can 
do is hire good, smart, motivated people and let them do 


— EM 


their business. And I tend to focus on what I think I do, 
which is to help set strategic priorities, and I work a lot on 
the deal side and on the financial structuring side. 

So my profile in terms of hands-on signing of cable subs 
and knocking on doors and writing bill stuffers or designing 
marketing campaigns is probably much lower than I think it 
should be. 


Is it possible for you to say what business you're in? 


Redstone: | don't want to make an overstatement, but 
we're in several different businesses, all related. One of the 
things that attracted me to the company—particularly hav- 
ing grown up in what I viewed as a nongrowth industry, the 
motion picture business—was that Viacom was in so many 
different but related businesses, all of which I view as being 
on the cutting edge of excitement and growth, and really of 
the whole technological revolution. So it's hard to say what 
business we're in; we are in several and we're in one. 

It’s one broadly diversified company, and perhaps the 
most diversified company in the media business. And when 
you add the several hundred screens that we have in our 
supplemental position at Orion Pictures, it's really difficult 
to think of a more diversified company than Viacom. And 
part of its strength would be that diversification. 


Viacom has always been a very successful company, but 
nobody quite knows how to get a grip on it. | wonder if you 
have a sense of that, and if you plan to project a new 
business to our industry. 


Biondi: | think it wouid be a mistake to define your goals in 
terms of trying to figure out whether we are in a single 
business. We are in the entertainment business across a 
very wide continuum—delivery of entertainment, creation 
of entertainment, some of it video and audio, some of it 
being purely audio based, it has satellite components, it has 
кшш components, it's hard wired, we're all over the 
place. 

I don’t know if that’s such a bad state of mind, as long as 
we understand what the businesses are and we can cither 
make the decision to run them as separate departments or 
try to figure out how they can cross pollinate to the compa- 
nies we manage and the shareholders to whom we are re- 
sponsible. That's good. 

I think we have a team here that understands thc interre- 
lationships between businesses and what they can be. 
We're a long way from realizing all of the potentials or 
zing on the relative assets of different groups. Some 

f it has to do with technological lead times; some of them 
aren't there vet. Some of it has to do with the right people 
talking to each other, some of it is just missing pieces. I 
some cases, we're too small in some segments of the busi 
ness to really be effective in leveraging the way we'd like to 
leverage. 

None of that is, per se, good or bad. It’s just an under- 
standing of what you have and where you're going and how 
they play against each other. How you emphasize where 
you put your capital and your effort in business is almost a 
direct fallout from your perception of where you see con- 
sumer behavior and the relative importance of film enter- 
tainment versus video entertainment versus TV, radio or 
cassette. 


Biondi: From our perspective, you have to take them in 
order—there are clearly very good underiying fundamen- 
tals in cable television. Half the country is subscribing, and 
75%-В0% is wired. We still have New York, D.C., Detroit 
and a few other major markets being wired up. 

Programing is beginning to come into its own, even with 
the very high percentage of classic off network fare, and 
maybe not so classic off network fare. Driving it, you're 
beginning to see the real presence of some original fare both 
on pay and certainly basic—and then there are whole verti- 
cal channels that are essentially original in some respects. 
MTV is probably the classic original, CNN has the classic 
packaging of news and ESPN is the same sort of classic 
packaging in sports. 


Broadeasing Nov 23 1987 


We see very good things for the MSO phase of the busi- 
ness, and certainly for the basic cable networking business. 
1 would suggest that 1 think if you add growth on a national 
level in the cable networking business, it is going to exceed 
any other broadcast form of advertising in terms of year to 
year compounding of growth. We feel real good about that. 
We have a couple of very healthy networks in those areas, 
and a couple of embryonic networks. 

Home video. | think the explosive curve is over in terms 
of cassette shipments—because it's really less a function of 
the machines directly than it is the number of shelves 
you've got to rack. And unless you see some change in the 
formula on which rentals are done—unless you see revenue 
splitting—I don't think you're going to see dramatic in- 
creases in the number of cassettes. It will creep up as the 
machine population starts approaching 80% and 9096, but 
we've reached, under the current economics, 7072-8056 of 
your shipment thresholds. 

Pay per view? Yeah, big business. The technology is 
beginning to get there. The five-year business is not a really 
sizable business, but it's there. 

All the dynamics are in place, and people are used to 
watching films in their home, they're used to paying for 
them now on some discreet basis, they're very comfortable 
with cable—and it's very clear that people want to see films 
and some events on a discreet pay as you go basis. It’s just a. 
question of getting everyone lined up and making it happen. 
A lot of people think their ox is going to be gored, so there is 
resistance—but that's always the way. It’s been done time 
and time again. 

Broadcast? Fairly stable. good business. Ultimately 
you've got to ask how far you can stretch C-P-M's, but 
that’s а delivery issue. I can't believe the pie is expanding at 
the same rate that cable is expanding. Something's got to 
give, and it's been giving in cost per thousands. But the 
market seems to be willing to absorb that at least on a 
national basis, on a network basis. Where else could the 
package good guys go? There's the classic example of 
someone who needs national reach. And until someone 
puts a pin in that, ] suspect that will continue to stretch, and 
broadcast will remain a relatively healthy business. 

Now whether that means [2% growth or 8% growth, 1 
don't know, but ] think you're talking about those kinds of 
ranges—on a relatively sustained, well managed basis. 1 
think there are opportunities at individual stations to turn 
them around, and that is probably much more classically a 
radio scenario, which is a much more local, business man- 


agement intensive format. We think the key there is man- 
agement. We think we've got good management, so we feel 
very good about the radio business. 

The pay business? The pay cable business 1 think is a 
troubled category. You know, unlike basic cable, its under- 
lying dynamics are not terrific. It was priced out of the 
market because it was the only way to raise your prices to 
the cable operator before deregulation, and now you've got 
deregulation, home video and pay per view. The price value 
relationship has to get back again; that’s hampered by the 
cost structure at all the networks. Not just Showtime/The 
Movie Channel. 

We think it’s going to have to change. We think the price 
is going to have to come down for the operator and it's going 
to have to come down to the consumer. If the price-value 
relationship can be reestablished, it can be a pretty good 
business. 

Гуе said this 100 times: the irony of cable programing is 
punch-through programing—the best programing on cable 
gets to the fewest people. That fundamental equation has to 
change. And 1 quite honestly don't see anything—original 
programing aside—that's going to change those dynamics 
except for pricing and distribution. We all have to have that 
finished product and make it available to an almost univer- 
sal audience. 

Have | missed any of our businesses? Programing? OK, 
programing is sort of universal, it’s always going to be 
there, it’s just a question of what the economics of it are. 
It's not as good a business as it was 10 years ago on a 
relative basis. But at the extremes, it’s a fabulous business. 

‘Showtime remains the one strategic question mark: How 
do you get from where you are to where you think you 
ought to be? We think partners are in that equation. We 
haven't lined them all up yet, but we're working on it. 


How do they help? 

Biondi: Well, they can bring you things. If they're cable 

partners, they can bring you distribution. which is essen- 

tially Showtime's principal problem. Well, it's also НВО", 

en you're talking about getting into almost universal distri. 
ution. 

We have this irony with Showtime of having what we 
believe to be а dramatic programing advantage over all the 
competition. Just the movie lineup alone is awesome, and 
most of it is exclusive. And we find ourselves in a distribu- 
tion mode where if you want to get Showtime. you general- 
ly are paying a very hefty fee. and you have to buy through 


pew 
Viacom views from the street. John Tinker, Morgan Stanley 
equity analyst: "They have to sell something. They don't have to 
move too fast, but at the same time, it’s better to negotiate when you 
don't have a noose hanging over your neck. Basically the operations 
are іп good shape. The question is now appropriate is their debt 
structure given the fact thal we could be going into a very tough 
economic environment, Where the public markets aren't function- 
ing, it's very hard to raise capital, which means it's harder for other 
companies lo buy your assets and it's harder for you to spin some- 
Ihing off.” 

Recommendation: no official position 
David J. Londoner, Wertheim & Co. associate managing di- 
rector: "What's interesting about it is the leverage. The leverage is 
зо greal that as these assets grow there will be more and more left 
for common shareholders.” 

Recommendation: None officially, bul, says Londoner, betore 
Oct, 19 "I liked the stock as a long-term speculation. That hasn't 
changed, in fact the values are more compelling than they were 
then.” 


Rickard MacDonald, First Boston eynity analyst: Equity re- 
search report on Viacom completed Nov. 11 included following 
estimates: operating cash flow per share $4.31 for 1987, $6 for 1988, 
Estimates for 1988; operating revenue up 11% to $1.118 billion; 
operating cash flaw up 29% to $324 million; $355 million loss after 
taxes (MacDonald's 1988 estimates assume sale of broadcast 
group in 1988 for $750 million or 11 times 1989 cash flow. wilh 


proceeds used to pay down preferred equity and subordinated 
debentures). 
Recommendation: Continue with buy. 


Richard Bilotti, L.F. Rothschild high-yield bond analyst: “The 
positive elements are they've done a terrific job with the broadcast 
group in general. And while MTV's results may not be superlative 
this year, | think they've identified a very serious problem in terms of 
the marketing: the advertising. The cable operations are a source of 
joy. 

“The bad part is obviously in the next 18 months they have $450 
million in debt due. Alter that, every six months, there's an $115- 
million payment that comes due. To mee! those out of internal cash 
flow, they essentially have to get rid of $800 million in debt. Both 
before and after Oct. 19, one fact has been true; they have lo sell 
minority equity. They'll get some level of it done, but it's a question 
of how much capital is out there in the first place, and then what 
prices they're willing to pay." 

He estimates 1987 toss-per-share at $3 on a pro-torma basis (as if 
the National Amusement acquisition had taken place Jan. 1) and its 
1986 loss-per-share at $2.30. 

Recommendation: Neutral 


Edward Hatch, Merrill Lynch equity analyst: "One of the big- 
gest strengths are the cable franchises they have and the manage- 
ment team they're assembling with Biondi and [Showtime President 
Топу] Cox. That will certainly be key to the company's future.” 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


the competition to get ii 
tion. Our principal mı 
that equation 

Do you have a plan? 
Biondi: | think we do, although it would be premature to 
talk about it in any detail. We think there are ways out of 
that, but we don't think we can do it by ourselves. We think 
it has come to the point in time where, both financially and 
strategically, wc should have partners in that venture. 


That seems to be a theme of much that you're doing—to 
get minority partners all over the block. 


Redstone: Well, there has been some change in that per- 
spective. One of the reasons that we concentrate right now 
on Showtime and Movie Channel is that, apart from new 
dollars, the people that we're talking to are people who can 
make that as successful as 11 can be—and that's very suc- 
cessful 
In other words. as Frank says, if we had distribution that 
was anywhere commensurate with the quality of the pro- 
graming, that would be great. We're less inclined now even 
to think in terms of sales of minority interests—not that it 
may not happen in the other businesscs 
t. the internal growth that we see is beyond our €x- 
pectation; not only in MTV, but Nickelodeon, which is 
wonderful and growing very fast, and the act that V H-I soon 
will be up to 25 million subscribers, and apparently is devel- 
oping a format that people can recognize as distinctive from 
MTV, which I have a lot of difficulty with, and what we sec 
is a kind of growth that would make us less reluctant than 


It's a fact of life of cable distribu- 
ion is to figure out how to change 


we were to even part with it, although we don't say that that 
won't take place 

‘And actually, in view of the fact that we sec all these 
businesses having good growth, we wouldn’t be unhappy if 
it were not necessary for us to part with any interest. I'm 
not saying that would be the ultimate scenario, but we think 
it’s a possibility. We really don't think we need anybody 
strategically to help us with the other businesses in which 
Viacom is engaged. 

That's clearer to me now, and certainly it seems to be 
Frank's point of view. There may be other ways for us, and 
the burden upon us is really relatively little. We have no 
requirement for any amortization of our debt until Decem- 
ber 1988, which is a long way off, and that's $200 mi 
and a little more which we can do in a variety of ways six 
months later. So it gives us an opportunity not to be pec 
tous in doing anything, and to sort out the kinds of things 
that are coming to us at a rapid rate from would-be ped 


Are you talking about cable operators that could bi 
distribution as opposed to Hollywood that could bring 
programing for Showtime? 


Redstone: | think both can add something. The cable peo- 
ple are old friends of old associates, although they re new to 
me. The people in production and distribution are all very 


Broadcasting N 


good friends of mine, from whom I've learned a great deal. 

And 1 have to say that the contacts in all cases were not 
made by us. The fact is that the cable people with whom we 
have talked and the production people with whom we are 
talking are people who indicated an interest in his aspect of 
our work, which makes us feel better about the opportunity 
to put something together. Some of them do seem to be able 
to offer more strategic advantages than others. 


With the excitement among cable operators about the 
potential from increases in basic subscriber rates and 
cable advertising—and you mentioned pay per 
view—why would they be interested in taking equity in а 
pay television service? 


Redstone: | think that the cable operators are interested in 
acquiring interests in programing, and really the highest 
quality programing. 

Biondi; | think there are three or four issues. One is, you 
can make a lot of money on it. A fairly simple equation- 
—you drive distribution, and most of it falls to the bottom 
line. Two, cable wants proprietary programing. So there is 
a general interest in vertical integration. 

Three, I think if you believe that you can no longer get all 
of the movies on one service, whether Showtime or HBO, 
there is a real potential for driving through a second. Disney 
ora relevant third channel of distinctive programing lor the 
consumer. 

Toverlay on top of that all of the caveats | added as far as 
value relationships and getting the price of the pay services 
down; | think that has to happen. But I think to presume, as 
HBO seems to, that there is only going to be one pay service 
and it’s going to continue to proliferate, is wrong-headed. It 
doesn't make that much sense for the consumer. and cer- 
tainly from our perspective—and I'm not particularly grind- 
ing an axe as a programer here, but us a cable operator—it's 
a win-win when we get most of your programing to most of 
your people, most of the good programing to most of your 
customers. That's the fundamental flaw in the cable equa- 
tion, 1 think. 


Is it a matter of being on systems or the promotion? 


Biondi: Well, we've got very good distribution in terms of 
Showtime—it's widely available. It’s how it's available. 
You have to pay a lot to get it and you have to buy through a 
number of things to get it, so the objective would be, trom 
our perspective, to make all of the programing relatively 
available. 

I'm not trying to suggest this as a panacea for the industry 
because Cablevision, which lm going to use as an example, 
started this from day one and has a relatively upscale au 
ence. They essentially offer one package. It’s a very expen- 
sive package, and it gets in front of all of their homes, and 
it’s à very successful offer. Now four years ago, a lot of 
people tried to switch; it didn't work so well, so it got a bit 
tarnished. But the principle of getting your good program- 
ing in front of all of your audience l think is well taken. 

If cable has. in my mind, any real hope for getting out to 
the 7526-8096 of homes in terms of basic subscriptions, it's 
got to broaden its programing. 


There seems tobe a feeling among cable operators about 
the marketing aspects of Showtime and the Movie Chan- 
nel, and of how much money Viacom is putting into it. 


Biondi: It's a fair comment, Showtime has not put a lot of 
money into marketing, and HBO has found that marketing 
has given them a terrific competitive advantage. HBO is 
spending so much money with the operator on marketing 
programs that it’s effectively pushed eyeryone else out of 
the market, which gives them a pretty strong competitive 
advantage, which is being in front of the consumer with the 
operator. 

And it's hard for the operator to get off that dole. It’s very 
lucrative. so they're using their size to great advantage, 1 
think the operator legitimately believes that if he were 
spending more money, he could improve the performance 
of Showtime, and I have no doubt about that. It's also fairly 


w 23 1907 


convenient to understand the lapse on the part of the opera- 
tor—it's just that much more money going to the operator. 

We arc going to put more resources into markcting, 
there's no doubt about that—that's one of the reasons we're 
talking, one, about pricing; two, about distribution; and 
three, about partners. Because that requires more capital. 
It’s not going to happen simply out of the existing subscrib- 
ers we have now. 


Redstone: | think 1 know something about the value of 
exclusivity from operating motion picture theatres, and I'm 
sold on it and I'm sold on the necessity for marketing. In 
fact, it's only now that large numbers of pictures on an 
exclusive basis are becoming available for Showtime. and 
we're beginning to see that. 

It's clear that there is a certain segment of people who 
take cable in order to watch movies, and the fact is they are 
not going to scc 75% of the pictures they want to see unless 
they have Showtime. They're not going to Fatal At- 
traction" or Eddie Murphy in "Beverly Hills Cop" or 
“Down And Out in Beverly Hills" or these Orion pictures 
that are coming up unless they have Showtime. 

And so we have a selling job to do—to the consumer and 

хо cable. But cable really controls it in many ways. And one 
of the things I've learned—that Frank had to teach me—is 
that in my business, my original business, you had a motion 
picture, you have an audience in the consumer, nobody 
stands in the way, they can walk into the theatre and see the 
picture. Now theoretically, you can have the best pictures 
in the world, you can advertise them to the consumer, and 
thcy still have to walk their way through whatever packag- 
ing or whatever else the cable operator is doing beforc it 
happens. 
May we shift the focus a bit to the general business 
scene? What's going on in the world since Ihe stock mar- 
ket crashed? How has that changed your business, if at 
al 


Redstone: Well, nobody likes to see the price of their stock 
go down, but since it was not for sale, it's really more 
cosmetic than anything else, negatively cosmetic. We could 
luck out very much from this. All of our projections we 
have kept at around 10%, and we're borrowing money at 
less than that. 

Second, the interest environment it seems to me may 
fortunately become such that we can amortize some of our 
assets without selling them— with fixed rate financing, ho- 
pefully—and repay a great deal of our current debt, and 
restructure the whole debt. That becomes a better possibili- 
ty in this interest rate environment. 

So that's something we're planning to do and Frank has 
had alot more experience at it than I have, but І can still see 
the obvious. So, we could actually benefit from some as- 
pects of what has taken place. 


What about the business in general? 


Biondi: I've talked with a number of operators who are 
having a surprisingly strong fourth quarter. Business is very 
good at the sign-up level. It varies with the people I've 
talked to, and whether that translates to pay or not, but 
there are some good stories in pay and there are other 
people saying that it’s basically a pacing, a basic phenome- 
non. 

Broadcasting is mixed. We've seen some markets very 
strong and some month to month not quite what we thought 
they'd be. Radio is up somewhat, more than they'd thought 
it would be, | don't think they're dramatically off from 
where they should be. 

The quarter is hard to measure in the programing busi- 
ness. Networks are never happy, shows should always be 
performing better, but all their shows are relatively per- 
forming less except for the top 10. And the basic cable 
networks are having good fourth quarters. Now I think that 
is less economy than a flight from the up front experience 
with the big three networks. We're seeing a lot of buying 
downtown, and the optimism on how strong the FM market 
was is beginning to diminish, and we're seeing some per- 


centage, if not a disproportionate percentage of ad dollars 
coming to the basic cable networks, and we're getting our 
share. 


It's obvious that you participate over almost the entire 
industry. Perhaps home video—is that an exception? 


Biondi; Well, that’s been more by choice than anything 
else. We can be in the home video business in about 22 
minutes, People were lined up around the corner who want- 
ed to give us a label, have us buy half their business, Unless 
you are a producer, 1 don't view it as a business in which 
you're going to make a lot of money. In the long term, you 
make some money this month, but lose some next month. If 
you just buy a product out there in the world and try to 
resell it, there are things that it does do for you if you are 

re-buying rights of theatrical films across a spectrum of 
fione cite eats nouet to umen datrbuticn. And we 
will be doing more of that. 

We've got to bring in one or two individuals to bolster 
that up to work on that, and we've got to link up our needs 
between Showtime and domestic syndication. | mean, the. 
rights we would be least interested in kecping, but laying off 
to enable us to by across all those lines. But it would proba- 
bly be home video and foreign distribution. 

Interestingly enough, there are a number of home video 
companies, both studio owned and independent, that hap- 
pen to be very handy in both of those arenas. All of them 
would be interested in that kind of a Chinese menu if we 
bought all the rights to the film except theatrical, and in 
some cases, some of the people we've talked to would be 
interested in theatrical, as well. We'd do that. 

And it makes sense. It basically fuels Showtime and do- 
mestic film packages for syndication, which are both very 
good businesses in their own rights. And pay per view. 


Are there other special delivery markets of interest? 
TVRO, MMDS? 


Biondi: Well, MMDS is still a relatively unproven busi- 
ness, | believe we're on one MMDS system in Cleveland 
where the cable companies resell them to the MMDS opera- 
tor. We happen to have a cable company in that market. 

The backyard business is а very big business for Show- 
time. Arguably, it’s one of the most profitable pieces of 
business, and it continues to grow. 

We are somewhat troubled by the Gore bill in that re- 
spect. Nobody is telling NBC it’s got to wholesale anybody 
in Washington except their local affiliate, but that’s essen- 
tially what we're being asked to do. We don't think that's 
particularly right. We think the market is essentially 
healthy. Almost all new dishes being sold have some form 
of decoding available or already built in. And those num- 
bers again will be pretty impressive. 

So there is that core group out there who are still mightily 
unhappy with the fact that scrambling commenced two 
years ago and continues to roll along. I think once everyone 
js scrambled—and not everyone is—that will start new 
growth as well. 


This is 1987. If we were here to repeat this interview in 


1990, just three years from now, what kind of a company 
would you expect to be? 


Biondi; Our first accomplishment has to do with the acqui- 
sition itself. 

Getting our capitalization sorted out, redeploying in the 
broadest sense of the word, whether it's bringing in part- 
ners or selling off pieces or buying in pieces, the asset base, 
so that we can start doing what we really want to do, which 
is to build this thing called Viacom into the premiere enter- 
tainment/communications company in the world. Between 
now and 1990 that's a pretty big swallow. 


Do you want to be number one? 
Redstone: Well, anybody who is content to be less than 
first can't be number one, so you better want to be number 
one, it seems to me, more than anything. If you wantto win, 
you have to want to be a winner. 

Biondi: The issue is: how do you measure number one? 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 
ва 


I mean, do you want to be the biggest group broadcaster, do 
you want to own broadcast networks, do you want to be the 
biggest cable network, do you want to be the biggest MSO? 
The answer (s, we rearfsticatty оша бе a fool to say we 
want to be all of those things. Where we'd like to bein many 
respects, if not all respects, is to be thought of as one of the. 
premiere companies in the entertainment business. 


Is it strictly Show business? 


Redstone: Show business? How about leisure time? How 
about strictly leisure time business? Because that gives us a 
few opportunities in other areas that we might some day be 
interested in. And that’s what we would call entertainment. 


Biondi: "Premiere" doesn’t necessarily mean size. You 
don't need to be the General Motors of the business to be a 
premiere company in the business. | mean, a lot of it has to 
do with it being well run, profitable, smartly oriented. L 
think Sumner commented on it very fairly in the sense that 
there is no plan that I'm trying to dance around or lay out to 
you in the sense that it is very early in the game to be as 
crystalized 

All of our existing businesses today could touch almost 
anything that you could bring up without going out and 
buying an asset or starting a business, it would just be a 
chance of emphasis or a further emphasis of something 
that's being done somewhere in the company—it may not 
be done as well as it should, or it may be a terrific little 
enterprise. 

I'd offer you the pay per view business at Viewer's 
Choice. I'm not quite sure where that's going; | know the 
business, and on paper I could show you models until the 
cows come home. І don't know if any one of them is the 
precise layout of how the business evolves, but it's going to. 
bea real business, and we wili be a player in that business. 


At one point you were being very laid back about acquisi- 
tions because of your debt situation, but you've now pre- 
sumably improved enormously and now you've got the 
interest rates going in your tavor—are you shifting over to 
an aggressive mode on acquisitions? 

Biondi: Quite honestly, I don't think we"ve really changed 
our desire level, and 1 think 1 would argue to you that 
interest rates have less to do with our posture than attrac- 
tive candidates, at attractive prices. 

Now if anything, the market is making those more avail- 
able and more realistic. Having prices come down and hav- 
ing sellers being willing to sell at those prices are two differ- 
ent things, but there are a variety of cases, and there are 
more academic cases based on real doable situations. But 
there are a few of the latter. 


What businesses might you try to acquire at this point? 


good company, right price. 
We have several questions about issues, And by that we 
mean such things as how concerned you are about the 
telephone company getting into the cable business, for 
example, and affecting your ultimate livelihood? 


Biondi: Well, as a cable operator, I'd say we are extremely 
concerned. Itis hard to conceive of a scenario that would be 
orchestrated through the government whercby you would 
allow the telephone company into a business where it would 
take incredible advantage of its inherent—structural advan- 
tages. And having said that, I don't know how you could 
really consider it. 

I’m aware that there are a lot of esoteric arguments made 
by Jack Valenti (president of the Motion Picture Associa- 
tion of America] right through some economists who are 
fairly well respected, who would say: “Hey, it can work, it 
can happen.” 

But you know, it's not like they're going to wipe you off 
the face of the earth in one fell swoop. It's more like being 
nibbled to death by ducks or something. It is arguably not a 


terrific solution to a problem that I'm not sure exists. 


What other issues occupy your attention? 


Biondi: Oh, 1 think there remains a fair amount of concern 
within the cable industry about the proprictary nature of 
their programing—and not that I’m on both sides of the 
issue, but the programers fee! that they're not, per se, cable 
programers, and a lot of them have become cable friendly in 
the last three or four years. Deep in their hearts, I’m not so 
sure they're going to leave that. There is another issue, you 
know. Is a network like a Home Box Office or an ESPN a 
cable network? Oris it a programing service that’s available 
through any means of distribution? And that's not a public 
policy issue. It’s an intra-industry issue that is going to get 
wrestled to the ground and is being wrestled to the ground, 
and I think we have to do some long and hard thinking about 


it. 

I've basically reached the conclusion that the cable serv- 
ices arc in fact just that, they're cable services. The indus- 
try has in fact probably been at least an equal partner in the 
cable industry in building those programing franchises, de- 
spite what many programers might believe deep in their 
heart, that somehow thcy'vc done the industry a favor by 
using them as the distribution boys. 

Which gets you into the DBS question. You know, there 
are a lot of people running around with satellites and financ- 
ing, and they come and knock on our door, and say, “Why 
not?" And you even have a lot of folks who are wanderin 
around the halls of Congress saying, “How come?" As ii 
this programing is really just a commodity that should be 
available and on any doorstep. It's like saying you can get a 
Big Mac on any corner. It’s just beef in a bun. Well, if it’s 
just beef on a bun, why do you need the name “Big Mac?" 
You can do it yourself. But the bottom line is no one wants 
to go and invest hundreds of millions of dollars in program- 
ing, creating networks, which was essentially what hap- 
pened over a 15-year period in the cable industry. They 
wanted to just take those networks and sign them up and kill 
the poor cable operator who really built this. 

That's essentially, at least in our minds, not fair. And it is 
not going to happen. 

Other issues? High definition is a good issue, I think it’s a 
happy issue for everyone. It’s a question of how you work it 
out. There are some in the cable business who think there's 
а grand slam here. I think the cable industry will ultimately 
be the principal beneficiary of high definition. It will likely 
be a better delivery mechanism of almost any type of high 
definition service, and I think from a public policy point of 
view—if I can put my broadcaster's hat on—] think to allow 
a high-definition standard to come in that is not compatible 
with terrestrial delivering would be a real disaster. 

That doesn't mean they should all be on a standard that's 
compatible with terrestrial broadcasting, but there certainly 
should be a standard that's compatible, and if someone else 
wants to develop a noncompatible standard, whether it's on 
videotape or satellite or on cable or you name it, let them 


go. 

But I think it would be a real tragedy for this country to 
allow anyone else, particularly the Japanese in this case, to 
insert or assert a standard through videocassettes, which is 
likely to happen absent the setting of some standard. It's 
one of the few times we can really see a positive role for 
government. And I hesitate to use the word “regulation” as 
far as standards, but it is a form of regulation. 

As to other issues, such as syndicated EAM and 
copyright—I mean, you only want 10% of the teapot; they'll 
get taken care of on their own. You get in with the insiders 
‘on both sides and they'll tell you, they're probably sparring 
more about the issue and having more fun sparring about 
the issues than the real dollars and cents problems. If cable 
wants proprietary programing, it seems to be very hard to 
argue that the other guy shouldn't be allowed to have pro- 
prietary programing. 

It's a simple matter of equity. It's getting it traded off 
that’s part of the process, but it will ultimately happen 
because self interest will prevail. 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


What about overseas businesses and what kind of oppor- 
munitis or difficulties do you see for a company like your 
own 

Biondi: There are a lot of good opportunities. The princi- 
pal advantage of dercgulation is principally Europe and for 
a program provider/distributor, that’s very good news. It 
has been very good news and will continue to be. 

We have a number of joint ventures built around either 
Showtime or The Movie Channel, and hopefully we'll do 
something with Nickelodeon, as well, which are going pret- 
ty well. MTV Europe is off to a nice start, there is ап MTV 
Australia—MTV is likely to be the first global network. 
Irony of ironies: rock and roll will be the universal panacea. 

It’s not so surprising, actually. 


What are the Showtime joint ventures? 


Biondi: Well, actually it’s really Premiere—where Show- 
time is the partner in Premiere UK, and there is a Premiere 
Japan, that was an umbrella, a global venture outside of 
Premiere UK. 

Hopefully, some day, Premiere UK will be Pan Europe- 
an, and Japan will be up and running as a service. There are 
a variety of little cable ventures in Japan and Hong Kong 
and there are some consultancies that we have in Europe 
with cable. 

‘Those will probably remain small, but there are a lot of 
little seeds, and one of them might blossom if there's some- 
thing very big. I think it's very hard for an American com- 
pany to be a principal, particularly in Europe. 

What about overseas money coming into the United 
States, particularly with your company. 

Biondi: We have had a number of conversations. There is 
strong interest in a couple of camps. | think the foreign 
capital markets are there—particularly Japan, which is raj 
idly emerging as a world banker, and certainly is a world 
capital market. They are a little unsure as a capital market 
about entertainment and cable and broadcasting as vehicles 
in which to either directly invest in or lend to. 

But that's another issue. 1: wasn't so long ago when you 
were talking about American insurance companies being 
reluctant to lend to cable, and there was a big breakthrough 
when Prudential made a loan. It will all take time; 1 think 
these are viable possibilities, but I think our horizons are 
naturally and probably prudently more limited overseas. 
But we'll make some serious money and we'll have a profile 
over there. 


Redstone: We do have some interesting consultancies 
over there— for Robert Maxwell, for example. 


‘es, principally cable and pay cable consultancies 


think, Frank, that the very fact that we're in all 
of these countries and dealing with major companies it 
those countries, even ina limited way, creates the possil 
ty for more significant headway in the future. Our world is 
fully global, It's kind of mixed and kind of exciting. 

What businesses not now in your stable may turn out to 
be the profit centers of the future? What would you like 
people to bring to you that would make you turn aside 
from what you're doing now and say, yes, that’s what we 
want to do next? 


Biondi: Let's see if сап do those in order. The second one 
is actually a little easier to answer. I'm not sure that as a 
business, it jumps right out at me, that I can point to; | mean 
I think pay per view has a chance, although it’s already in 
our stable: for being a major profit center. I'm really having 
trouble... 


Redstone: That's because you're so into what we're doing 
right now. 

How about @ new network? 

Biondi: That’s possible. But I don't look at us as being in 


the networking business, so that wasn't on the list, It will be 
progressively harder to start networks unless you're willing 


to share the ownership quite dramatically, at least in the 
cable area. There may actually be a broadcast model of that 
some day, but you're going to have to restack either the 
VHF and UHF allocation if you get enough stations to 
create a fifth network, with Fox being the fourth. 

Pay per view, high definition—probably, but that's just a 
technological twist on an existing business. There are some 
quasi-interactive businesses that we have spent some time 
On... You know, you see these kids’ games now with these 
shows that actually let the kid play, and I tend to think 
they're more fads than long term, but the technologies are 
being built in, and they may ultimately evolve into different 
variations. Maybe it's bowling or other types of businesses 
that you can play off of that, but it's really too hard for me to 
see those today as being major, major profit centers. 

‘A more basic issue has been why sell just for the sake of 
paving down debt? If that's your issue, wait until next year; 

usiness will be a little bigger and presumably a little more 
of value. 

So what would get us to open the door? I think the kind of 
things that would turn our heads tend to fall into two dia- 
metrically different categories. One would be a stratcgic 
addition, someone who's doing more than just capital, 
something wherein you can P one and one together and 
get three, or two and a half. Cable and Showtime is an 
example of that kind of thing. 

1 guess there's always the greater fool theory—if some- 
one for reasons of their own were to take what appears to be 
the next eight to 10 years worth of value in a business, and 
we can take the funds and go out and redeploy them in the 
same business or an equally attractive business. 

I mean, I talked to somebody on that basis, as well. But 
you know, those don’t happen, and if they do, they general- 
ly don’t close. Because there really aren't many greater 
fools when you get right down to it. 

We've talked to a number of people who would and could 
do a number of strategically interesting things to several of 
our businesses. And, conversely, we have turned down at 
least 50 offers to buy stations, and at very attractive prices. 


15 there a crown jewel in the company? 


Biondi: | think there are а lot of jewels. I think the street 
would tell you the cable division is probably the one that 
carries the most weight with regard to value. As Sumner 
said, I think that in seven or eight years we can look back 
and say MTV Networks will be the biggest business. And 
that’s as much a testimony to the inherent potential of the 
basic cable networking as to the uniqueness of the skills of 
the management over there. 

It's an interesting business. It's what I call very inwardly 
directed management, I mean these are people who inveni- 
ed formats, and they spent all their time worrying about the 
format, at least to take orders for advertising. I'd say the 
waiting or the time span was like 95% on “how does it look, 
feel and taste, are we slick, hip or what?” And the other 5% 
was ''аге the revenues coming in this month?” 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 
E 


Cable operators make the equity play 


Continued trom cage 35. 


The posture that cable companies take 
on equity deals or outright ownership of 
programing services depends on the 
goals of the company and its executives. 
Tele-Communications Inc., the largest 
MSO, has made the most headlines in 
taking ownership positions in cable serv- 
ices. With its proposed buy of Tempo 
Enterprises and its stake in Turner 
Broadcasting System, TCI owns a piece 
of WTES(TV) Atlanta, CNN, Headline 
News, Discovery Channel. Cable Value 
Network, Black Entertainment Televi- 
sion. Tempo TV. QVC Network, Fash- 


ion Channel and American Movie Clas- 
sics and two regional sports networks, 
one in Pittsburgh, the other in Salt Lake 
City. It is also a major backer of the 
proposed ecumenical religious channel 
being put together by the National Inter- 


faith Cable Coalition, although it does 
not have ownership in the venture. But 
TCI's aggressive stance is being fol- 
lowed by a host of other MSO's, which 
also own parts of TBS's programing 
services; Discovery; QVC Network 
(Comcast); Fashion Channel (United) 
and the new pay-per-view network, 
Home Premiere Television, which is 
owned by Cox, Continental, ATC, Tele- 
Cable and Newhouse. 

To operators it is a way to insure that 
programing, sometimes new and varied, 
gets to subscribers, and maybe, at the 
same time, makes a little money. Once 
tried many liked it 

“We didn't have any expertise in pro- 
graming,” says Comcast Cable Presi- 
dent Bob Clasen, "and were very reluc- 
tant to make investments." But after the 
success of the Home Shopping Net- 
works, the company commissioned a 
study on the subject. “QVC Network 
was an aspect of home shopping that we 
had commissioned research on, When 
we were approached, we had the exper- 
tise and didn’t see shopping as more high 
risk oriented” than other businesses, 
said Clasen. Comcast was offered a 
stake in HPT and Discovery, but did not 
take it because it felt it had no expertise 


in those areas. Clasen said the company 
anted up for Turner because of strategic 
reasons. Still, Clasen said the company 


"wouldn't rule out that we'd make in- 
vestments in programing.” But the rule 
of thumb at Comcast on participation is 


whether a new programing service 
makes business sense. The compan 
said Clasen, looks for "investments with 
reasonable and predictable returns," 
which not all programing ventures can 
boast. 

ATC's Dressler said: ‘‘We don't feel 
compelled to take an ownership position 
unless we feel that's the only way a serı 


Gee 
ice that we think is worthwhile can get 
off the ground, We feel the marketplace 
seems to be working quite well.” 

There are potentia) problems, said 
Dressler, with the proliferation of equity 
ownership. “When it's been offered, all 
of a sudden people get used to it,” said 
Dressler. "It can be like a drug," he 
said, in describing operators who are 
“gelling hooked" on equity. He sees 
particular problems “when a lot of these 
deals are based on distribution and not 
cash-out-of-pocker There are addi- 
tional reasons why ATC has distanced 

self from too much equity participa- 
tion. “We'd like to remain a little more 
independent to make our decisions... We 
have a lot more clout with a program 
supplier who can't take our distribution 
for granted,” said Dressler. 

The same financial aspects that make 
some operators wary of equity, make it 
more appetizing for others. "We ap- 
proach it from an investment point of 

id Cox's Redella, “Some deals 
ipation along with oth- 
er MSÓ's are not nearly as attractive as 
ones where we can team with a handful 
of MSO's in order to get into a larger 
position,” as was the case with Discov- 
ery and HPT. With Discovery, “we 
have a say on the ongoing operation, 
an advantage that is lacking when pro- 
gramers "are just purchasing channel 
space," said Redella. 
Cox took an ownership in HPT, the 
pay-per-view network, for a number of 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1087 


reasons. Redella said the company was 
not sure how the existing PPV services 
would shake out and to what degree they 
would be operator-friendly. The goal of 
HPT “‘is to keep the profits at the system. 
level." With Request and Viewer's 
Choice, said Redella, “that’s not going 
to happen." To Redella, PPV looks a 
little Б like thc early days of basic, 
when programing was first offered free, 
then affiliate fees were assessed. "The 
profits belong on the system level,” says 
Redella, and they serve “to entice [sys- 
tem operators] іо keep stimulating the 
marketplace" with concentrated mar- 


Clasen 
keting. It was for that reason, along with 
Cox's desire to tap a “new growth reve- 
nue segment," that it invested іп HPT. 

In the case of QVC, Cox took an equi- 
ty stake, but only a small one. “QVC 
was a real financial calculation," says 
Redella, “The opportunity there was а 
very short-term gain." The initial public 
offering was for $10, with operators be- 
ing allowed to sell if the stock hit $20 for 
20 consecutive trading days. Cox also 
has a small stake in Home Shopping 
Networks in addition to its own home 
shopping service. 

olony Communications is a smaller 
MSO and has made only "token invest- 
ments" in start-up services, such as 
QVC, HSN and CVN. The criteria it fol- 
lows, according to President Charles 
Townsend. include these: “Do we think 
itis a good service, and how do we maxi- 
mize the return?" In Colony's case, the 
services were home shopping oriented. 
Aside from the 5% commission, "you 
can also make some good money on cap- 
ital appreciation," said Townsend. 

But for the mid-sized MSO, such as 
Colony, the involvement of larger 
MSO's in program service ownership 
has trickle-down benefits. TBS's Good- 
will Games plens and ESPN's NFL 
package were offered to subscribers on a 
pro-rata basis, the first time that has 
happened, said Townsend. That meant 
no volume discounts for the large MSO's 
and an even shake for smaller operators, 
such as Colony. Each operator paid a 


direct ratio to the number of subscribers 
it committed. "We need them as much 
as they need us," Townsend said of the 
big guy-little guy relationship. “То get 
this high-profile programing costs mon- 
ey, and you've got to have the big opera- 
tors in there to afford the big program- 
ing," said Townsend. “I feel that opera- 
tors supporting programing networks is 
a positive direction,” he said. 

Perhaps the most successful wide- 
шеш equity launch was the Fashion 

hannel, which lined up 65 cable opera- 

tors in affiliation/equity agreements for 
its launch last month. The operators 
control 25% of the company, taking 2.5 
million shares (at 20 cents a share). They 
include TCI and United, which have 
now taken greater stakes in the venture 
(see 36). The Fashion Channel has seven 
million subscribers; by the third year of 
the affiliation agreements, the shares 
will be released to the cable operators 
from an escrow account if the channel is 
front of 18 million subscribers as com- 
itted by the operators. 
Charlie Gee, chairman and chief exec- 
utive officer of the Fashion Channel, 
found cable operators likely partners in 
getting the retailing service off the 
ground. The cable industry had already 
backed QVC and HSN, he said, and “to 
market the program better," selling eq- 
uity stakes was the way 10 go. “They 
give us channel capacity,” says Gee of 
operators, which, in turn, better position 
themselves with diversified programing 
by carrying the Fashion Channel. That 
increases penetration, which is the pay- 
off for operators, said Gee. And al- 
though many MSO’s are on board, they 
have not attempted to get involved in 
programing decisions. ““They were very 
supportive and left it to us to run our 
own show," said Gee. 

The Fashion Channel managed to sign 
up the MSO's before the capacity issue 
became critical. "We were very, very 
lucky in that regard," says Herman 
“We got in before the door closed.” But 
there was a "tremendous interest in see- 
ing a service like the Fashion Channel 
get off the ground,” said Herman. Only 
Jones Intercable, which did not want an- 
other shopping-related service to com- 
pete with its own service, Sky Mer- 
chant, and Cablevision Systems, which 
did not want to sign a five-year agrcc- 
ment, remain unsigned Fashion Channel 
distributors. 

Meister launched FNN several years 
ago without giving away an equity stake 
during an era when channel capacity was 
tight. Since then, FNN's Score and Tel- 
shop have gone on the air, but the com- 
pany’s plans to extend the latter shop- 
pins service to 24 hours have been de- 

yed. At present, FNN is offering cable 
operators a small stake in the home 
shopping service in hopes of getting it 
launched on its own channel. "You 
can’t go around giving a five-year-old 
profitable company away," says Meis- 
ter. 

But in trying to sell Telshop this sum- 
mer, Meister found that the playing field 


was tilted against it, especially with the 
other shopping services that MSO's 
were carrying. FNN decided to offer eq- 
uity in Telshop as a carriage induce- 
ment, allocating 500,000 shares in Tel- 
shop for cable operators while FNN re- 
tains two million. To date, ATC, Cox, 
Viacom, Century, Centel and Cable 
America have signed or said they would 
sign, said Mcistcr. The extent of the in- 
dividual equity in Telshop depends on 
when operators sign up and the number 
of subscribers committed, a now-stan- 
dard formula in the industry. The Tel- 
shop shares carry with them certain 
terms allowing for the convertibility to 
FNN shares. If the 500,000 shares are 
bought by cable operators and all the 
conversions are exercised, cable opera- 
tors could own 8% of FNN in three 
years. At present, that is the extent of 
the plans for MSO participation. “Аз far 
as I'm aware, no operator has a substan- 
tial interests in FNN," says Meister. 

Was ENN too late in offering equity in 
Telshop? Meister has run into operators 
who after viewing the Telshop presenta- 
tion will say; "That's a compelling ar- 
gument [for your service), but 1 have 
equity in your competitors.” The reali 
isthey don't have the same motivation. 
But Meister does not see sinister forces 
at work. “The cable operator gives us 
distribution, and conversely they need 
our services,” he said. 

Meister says cable operators "are not 
looking for asset appreciation. meyar are 
concerned that somehow, somebod 
will do something that hurts their bush 
ness, that dilutes the value of cable. 
They have a loud voice and they will bc 
listened to." But the bottom line, he 
said, is that "there's a certain amount of 
money available no matter how you con- 
figure it. If the cable operator squeezes 
too hard, then we can't run the business 
well and profit from it,” said Meister, 

Equit said Joseph Segel, chairman 
of QVC Network, “was the most appro- 


priate way to go because cable carriage 
was extremely valuable. Equity offers 
an opportunity that makes sense to the 
cable companies," said Segel, and al- 
lows QVC “to acquire the maximum 
carriage. It worked very well.'' Comcast 
was an early ашыл poen and has 
since been joined by Т 

“In our view, its a © exchange," 
said Segel. “We got very valuable car- 
riage which is essential. We never really 
considered anything other than a combi- 
nation of equity and the standard 5% 
commission because it made sense to 
us." 

And Segel sees no problems with op- 
erators wanting a say in the Operation. 
“We welcome their comments," said 
Segel, because they provide instant 
feedback on how the service is doing. 
There is a line, Segel feels, that opera- 
tors won't cross, both in financial and 
operational demands. "The cable com- 
panies are smart enough to recognize 
that the programer has lo make moncy 
too; otherwise the equity isn't worth 
very much," says Segel. 

. Shop TV has 30 MSO’s aboard in con- 
junction with its launch last month. The 
Operators committed 3.3 million sub- 
scribers (Shop TV is up and running with 
2.5 million at the moment), with MSO's 
eligible for a 1% stake in the service for 
every million homes. The equity offering 
runs through Dec. 30. The operators' eq- 
uity is predicated on each signing a 
three-year affiliation agreement, With 
that comes a Shop TV six-month guaran- 
tee that it would match the highest com- 
mission of any other service, which can 
range up to 10%. To date, Shop TV is 
being carried by systems owned by Rog- 
ers, Warner. Continental and Cablevi- 
sion Systems. Caroline Vanderlip, se- 
nior vice president, sales, said the reac- 
tion so far has been positive. The 
operators “like the programing and the 
look of the show," she said. The chief 
reason other operators have not come 


Sportschannel New York 1,015,000 


Home Team Sports 720,000 
Prism 400,000 
Pro-Am Sport Systems 317,000 
New England Sports Network 210,370 
Madison Square Garden Network — 2,120000 
Prime Ticket 1,800,000. 
SportsVision Chicago 1,000,000 
Pirates on Cable 925000 
Sporischannel New England 725,000 
Home Sports Entertainment 574,400 
Sabres Network 500,000 
Utah Jazz 325.000 
Arizona Sports Programing Network. 170,000 
Trail Blazers 143,000 
Sporischennel Florida 35,000 


Bold face denotes ownership by cable operator 
another subsidiary. Subscriber figures are from 


Regional sports ownership 


Pay services 


Cablevision Systems 

Group W 

Cablevision Systems 

Thomas Monaghan, Detroit Tigers 
Owner 

Boston Red Sox (34%), Bruins (3456), 
SCI Television (30%), 

New Boston TV Inc. (2%) 


Basic and tier services 


Gulf & Western 

Jerry Buss (50%), Bill Daniels (50%) 

Cablevision Systems 

TOI 

Cablevision Systems 

‘Houston Sports Association 

Buffalo Sabres 

Utah Jazz and TCI joint venture 

Times Mirror Cable 

Portland Trailblazers 

Cablevision Systems 
ог company that operates systems through 
Paul Kagan Associates, 


Broadcasting Nev 23 1987 


aboard, she said, has been channel ca- 
pacity or their vested interests in other 
services. Among thc no's are TCI, Com- 
cast and United. Shop TV is 63% owned 
by JC Penney and 37% owned by STN 
Ltd., a public company. 

The Travel Channel plans to complete 
its initial stock offering to cable opera- 
tors in the next few weeks. It is offering 
cable operators 3,500,000 shares in сх- 
change for households. At a penny 
apiece, the offering ($35,000) is not de- 
signed to raise money, since the channel 
has the backing of TWA, but to insure 
carriage. It is now seen on 5.7 million 
cable homes. The offering will dilute 
TWA's ownership portion to approxi- 
mately 63%. The Travel Channel has not 
identified equity partners, but among the 
MSO's that are carrying the service are 
ATC, Cox, Storer, Warner, Hearst, 
Comcast, American, UA, Heritage and 
Times Mirror. The deadline for putting 
the Travel Channel on, and thus be eligi- 
ble for the stock, is Sept. 1, 1988. A 
second draft of the prospectus is expect- 
ed to offer operators another 500,000 
shares, which dilute TWA Marketing's 
share to 60%, The Travel Channel gives 
operators a 5% commission on sales and 
remits 5% on the juiry advertising 
that runs on the channel. 

Jones Intercable's Sky Merchant 
service is on in roughly a million homes, 
most of them Jones subscribers, but the 
company plans to step up its marketing 
efforts as more programers shift to Gal- 
аху Ш, the service’s home, and cable 
operator attention follows. Jim Krejci, 
chairman and chief executive officer 
Sky Merchant, says the service “is pick- 
ing the most likely candidates” for its 
marketing efforts, since operators are al- 
ready inundated with other home shop- 
ping services. Sky Merchant's goal is to 
reach five million. ‘You can do it [make 
a profit] at less than five million," says 
Krejci. But capacity remains Sky Mer- 
chant’s chief obstacle. “There are niche 
markets,” says Krejci, who believes ca- 
ble operator concentration on Galaxy Ш 
will push Sky Merchant over the top. 
“The basics of the industry are very 
sound,” he said. 

There are programing services that 
have launched or tried to launch without 
equity participation. Movietime, a serv- 
ice that highlights entertainment that is 
appearing on pay and basic cable as well 
as in the theaters, has launched without 
an equity offering and is finding channel 
space and time where it can. "Giving 
away equity for subscribers, while it 
makes your distribution grow, is not the 
long-term way to go,” said Larry Nam- 
er, president and chief operating officer 
of Movietime. “If you give away equi- 
ty...there may be a tendency to turn you 
into a nonprofit organization," Namer 
believes, "because none of their cash is 
involved.” If operators “put their cash 
in," he said, “they begin to look at it as 
more of an investment." Namer said 
nothing precludes an operator from buy- 
ing Movietime stock on the open mar- 
ket. Still, Namer admits the lack of equi- 


“rg me 


ty "significantly slows the process" of 
getting carriage. Launched this past 
summer, Movietime is on in 3.2 million 
households, and on target to rcach 
break-even at seven million homes next. 
summer. 

David Heath, director of cable opera- 
tions for The Consumer Discount Net- 
work, a home shopping service, said the 
company never opted for a stock owner- 
ship, and "that has hurt somewhat.” 
The cable operator “has been condition- 
ed as part of the deals" that have been 
made, he said. And Heath is getting 
CDN on where he can, on the downtime 
of Playboy, for instance. But Heath 
says: “Cable operators are more con- 
cerned with the value of programing for 
their subscribers" than stock warrants. 
CDN is caught in the industrywide eval- 
uation cable operators are making with 
various home shopping services. “The 
masses will dictate what they want to 
see," says Heath. Despite the small sub- 
scriber count —CDN I has one million 
subscribers—Heath said the network is 
“real close” to break-even. 

But there are indications that the equi- 
ty play may be playing itself out. 
Teleworld, an informational service that 
plans to launch in May, has been offer- 
ing equity to cable operators but has 
found few takers. Gerald Adler, presi- 
dent and chief executive officer of 
Teleworld, said Black Monday ‘‘has 
made equity a lot less desirable.” Addi- 
tionally, operators "would rather not 
have to be under the burden of consider- 
ing the profit potential versus the pure 
poena of the service, said Adler. 

'eleworld has stated it would offer 10% 
ownership in the service, and it has had 
discussions with the top MSO's. "They 
don't seem to be all that interested, and 
once they are, it’s a question of how they 
divide [the equity] up,” said Adler. That 
has led Teleworld to consider putting to- 
gether a string of UHF television sta- 
tions to get carriage of the service. The 
programing, said Adler, would work at 
just eight hours as it would at 24, 

The decentralization of many MSO's 
has been a problem for many new pro- 
gramers. The increasing concentration 
of ownership would makc it seem casier 
to get a large number of subscriber com- 
mitments at a faster pace. But decentral- 
ization makes a successful pitch in Den- 
ver only half the job, the other half being 
to convince the field operators to go 
aboard. Amos (Bud) Hostetter, chair- 
man of Continental Cablevision, said: 
“We never forced a service down a local 
manager’s throat. They have got to sign 
on themselves.” There is a lot of com- 
munication between field and corporate 
levels at Continental, said Hostetter, but 
“the decisions here come from the bot- 
tom DM 
ATC is also highly decentralized, but 
Dressler said ‘‘clearly we try to coordi- 
nate with our divisions." And while cq- 
uity helps services to launch, the in- 
creasing pace of decentralization among 
MSO's (ATC has 24 divisions) makes a 
programer’s job tougher as the same sell 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 
E 


Раа em 
job has to be done ой the regional level. 
"It's good to keep the program suppliers 
on their toes," says Dressler, "and not 
to assume that just because somebody in 
Denver thinks it’s a good idea, every 
division across the country is going to 
carry a particular service.” 


a 


Some of cable's loudest critics have de- 
cried what they see as greater vertical 
integration in the programing industry, 
where owner and distributor of program- 
ing are one and the same. They charge 
that operators won't make programing 
available to noncable services, such as 
MMDS, SMATV and TVRO markets, 
or will do so at an inflated price. Jack 
Valenti, president of the Motion Picture 
Association of America, may be the 
most vocal critic, but there are signs the 
government is beginning to pay some at- 
tention. Vertical integration in program- 
ing services is one of the many areas the 
National Telecommunications and, In- 
formation Administration will examine 
wide ranging study into cable tele- 
vision service (BROADCASTING, Nov. 
16). There are concerns that cable opera- 
tors will some day acquire the same con- 
solidations of programing and exhibition 
interests that led the government in 1948 
to break up common ownership of movie 
studios and theater chains. 


Some in the cable industry are con- 
cerned about vertical integration. Com- 
cast’s Clasen said: “There is definitely a 
balance that's required." There would 
be trouble “if we were the gatekeeper 
for a large percentage of programers,'" 
he said. On the other hand, he said, the 
cable industry "made MTV. I would 
hate to see a brand name we created 
coming back on us." 


Phil Lind, president, Rogers Commu- 
nications U.S. cable operations, ex- 
plains the dilemma cable operators face 
on equity. “I like it, but there are some 
real potential public policy problems if 
you're denying access." When Rogers 
has taken an ownership stake in the ser- 
vices—it owns 35% of the Canadian 
Home Shopping Network—it was be- 
cause "we wanted the services to fly,” 
said Lind. “But the industry has to be 
very aware of giving access. It can be 
made out to be a determining factor. If it 
js a marginal service, it raises public pol- 
icy issues.” 

But other operators point to an in- 
creasingly competitive programing envi- 
ronment, which makes the vertical inte- 
gration issue less important. There is 
more and more competition, ATC's 
Dressler pointed out, and as competing 
technologies develop it will be “more 
important for each of those technologies 
to control its programing.” 

To cable’s adversaries, the operator 
equity/ownership situation raises ques- 
tions of anticompetitive programing 
practices and product dominance. To 
the cable insiders, it is a question of 
competitive survival. 


Noncommei network offering 
potpourri of pledge specials 


The holiday season means pledge drive 
time on the Public Broadcasting Service, 
and this year's Nov. 27 through Dec. 6 
lineup includes a variety of special pro- 
grams, including music, dance and chil- 
dren's specials, celebrity biographies, 
science programing and documentaries, 
designed to reach the holiday spirited 
and the irreverant alike. 

Stations are continuing to experiment, 
looking for alternatives to traditional, 
live on-air appcals for viewer support, 
said PBS's Tom McSorley, associate di- 
rector of the station independence pro- 
gram. So the character of the appeals, 
ranging from “quiet” (no on-air appeals) 
1o pledge-free (on-air appeals reduced 
with mounting contributions) to tradi- 
tional blitzes, will vary from station to 
station and, in the pledge-free cases, 
from day to day. McSorley said that al- 
though PBS tracks pledge drive results, 
it does not gather data on methods. 

‘Among the special programing are: 

Great Performances: Celebrating 
Gershwin—a two-part (90 minutes 
each) musical, dance and biographical 
commemoration of George Gershwin's 
life and work, produced by wNET(TV) 
Newark, N.J., and Ше BBC in associa- 
tion with the Brooklyn Academy of Mu- 
sic. Part one is The Jazz Age, tracing his 
early career from 1919 until his first hit, 
which airs at 9 p.m., Nov. 27; part two is 
"S Wonderful, highlighting the Holly- 
wood scores, later Broadway musicals 
and his classically influenced composi- 
tions of the 1930's. Part two airs on Dec. 
4at9p.m. 

Remembering Bing—80 minutes, 
including clips of Crosby's best-known 
works and interviews with his former co- 
stars and others, produced by WTTW(TV) 
Chicago (9 p.m., Nov. 28). 

Christmas Eve on Sesame 
Street—a musical hour featuring the 
Muppets and other cast members of the 
regular Sesame Street series, with 
skaters from Holiday on Ice, produced 
by Children’s Television Workshop (7 
p.m., Nov. 29). 

The Sleeping Beauty—an 80-min- 
ute ice ballet featuring 1980 Olympic 
men’s gold medalist, Robin Cousins, as 
Prince Florimund and 1984 U.S. wom- 
en's champion, Rosalynn Sumners, as 
Princess Aurora. The WGBH-Tv Boston- 
Anglia Television production also fea- 
tures the Tchaikovsky score performed 
by the London Symphony Orchestra (8 
p.m., Nov. 30). 

Језвуе Norman's Christmas Sym- 


'Tis the season on PBS 


“Celebrating Gershwin’ 


phony—in which the opera singer is 
Joined by host, actor Derek Jacobi, at 
England's Ely Cathedral where she 
sings Christmas songs, joined in some by 
the American Boychoir, the Bourne- 
mouth Symphony Orchestra, the Ely 
Cathedral Christers and the Vocal Arts 
Chorus. Thames Television and Film- 
screen International produced the show 
in association with Windsor Internation- 
al Productions (9:30 p.m., Nov. 30). 

One More Season—a 53-minute docu- 
mentary tracing the life and death of high 
school athlete of the decade, college foot- 
ball all-star and high school football 
coach, Charlie Wedemeyer, who waged a 
10-year battle against Lou Gehrig's Dis- 
ease, produced by Crystal Bullet Produc- 
tions and presented by КОЕГХТҮ) San 
Francisco (9 p.m., Dec. 1). 

Great Moments from Nova—an 
hour-and-55 minute retrospective of 15 
years of discoveries, hypotheses and ad- 
vances in science, from the PBS series, 
hosted by actor Richard Kiley and pro- 
duced by wGBH-TY Boston (8 p.m., Dec. 


). 

Christmas with the Mormon Tab- 
ernacle Choir and Shirley Ver- 
rett—a 48-minute musical program pro- 
duced by KUED(TV) Salt Lake City (8 

m., 

Р The Frugal Gourmet: A Colonial 
Christmas with Friends—using early 
1700's recipes and a replica kitchen from 
the same period, PBS's Jeff Smith recap- 
turcs the holiday experience in simpler 
times; 48 minutes, produced by 
wrrwcrv) Chicago (7 p.m., Dec. 5). 

Lawrence Welk: Televisions Mu- 
sic Man—a one-hour and 23-minute cel- 
ebration of the musician-conductor of 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 
69 


the long-running TV musical variety 
program, including clips and interviews 
with former cast members; hosted by 
Kathy Lennon (8 p.m., Dec. 5). 

That's Dancing—a wo-hour-and- 
14-minute journey through the history of 
dance, co-hosted by Mikhail Baryshni- 
kov, Sammy Davis Jr., Gene Kelly and 
Liza Minelli and featuring clips from film 
and TV, produced by Jack Haley Jr. and 
David Niven Jr. and presented by 
Turner Entertainment Co. (9:30, Dec. 


5. 

Stories of Christmas Love with 
Leo Buscaglia—a 48-minute visit with 
the author-lecturer on the dynamics of 
loving relationships, in which he revisits 
his own childhood and adult Christmas- 
cs, illuminating the lessons he learned 
about love: produced by KVIE(TY) Sacra- 
mento, Calif. (7 p.m., Dec. 6. 

James Galway’s Christmas Car- 

ol—a 52-minute musical collaboration 
among the flutist, the Royal Philharmon- 
ic Orchestra, the Ambrosian Singers of 
London and the Boy Choristers of St. 
Alban's Abbey, featuring Galway's ar- 
rangements; produced by the BBC 
(10:30 p.m., Dec. 
The Grand Ole Opry—a mix of tra- 
ditional Opry stars and new country mu- 
sic performers join host Roy Acuff for 
two hours and 53 minutes from Nash- 
ville. Noncommercial television stations 
underwrote this Nashville. Network/ 
Grand Ole Opry production. The time 
and date for the show has not been set 
yet. 

Dates and times are subject to change 
as member stations are free to air each 
program at any time during the pledge 
period. All times are Eastern. 


Stockalndex 


Closing Closing 
Wed меа 


Capitali- 
Net Percent PIE zation 
Change Change Ratio (000,000) 


N (CCB)Capha CitewABC— 315 12 312 34 os 22 
м (CBS)CBS. me 165 14 0650 10 
A (CCU) Clear Channel " " [ET 
О (INFTA)Infinty Bromdcesüng 19 — 16 44 214 1343 14 
о QCOR)ueeorCommun. 5 Và з AB - 106 -0465 

о (UNB) LIN —— ж зв за за тюз эз 
о (MALA) Maire EE T 

© (MALRA) Mairie бле - 6м 

о (OBCCC) Olympic Broadcast 4 V2 а L4 

о (OSBN Osborn Commun. — 4 12 4 34 - V4 

о (OCOMA) Outlet Commun — 4 зла - м 

A (PR) Price Commun. sv ram тїз 

о (BCRP) Serippa Howard 77 7 1 

о (SUNN) SunGroup Ine 1 Y2 1 V2 

O (TLMD) Telemundo sn sn 

о (тух) TVX Broadcast n - в 

© тм) United Television — 27 a юш 35 


mmm BROADCASTING WITH OTHER MAJOR INTERESTS mamEumEEEF 
n 


о (ASTV) Amer. Comm. & TV — 
N (AFL) American Family. 

О (ACCMA) Assoc. Commun. 
O (BMAC) Виз, Men's assur. — 
н (CCN) Chris Coat 

N (DNB) Dun & Bradstreet — 
о (DUCO) Durham Corp. — 
N (GC) Gannett Со. 

N Naton — — — 
о (GCOM) Gray Commun 
N (OP) Jeffarson-Pliot 

н (KR) Knight-Ridder 

N (LEE) Lee Enterprises — — 
N (LC) Liberty. 


stu 


© (MMEDC) Multimedia. 
А (NYTA) How York Times. 
O (NWS) News Corp. Lid. 
О (PARC) Park Commun. 
О (PLTZ) Pulitzer Publishing — 
N (RED) Reliance Group Hold. — 
о (RTRSY) Reuters Lia. 

т (SKHO) Selkirk. 

О (STAUF) Staufier Commun. — 
А (TO) TectvOps Ino, — 
N (ТМС) Times Miror. 

О (TMC) TM Communications... 
© (TPCC) TPCCommun. 


ЕРРЕТИ ЕТЕРГЕ: 


м (TRB) Tribune 45 
A (TESA) Turner Besig. A — 10 
A (TESB) Turor Besig. B — % 
А (WPOB) Washington Post. 189 


© (SP) AnronSpeling Prod — 5 18 Е © ou 
O (ALLN AlAmekanTY. — 1 38 1 зз 1 
O (BARS) Banisindus  — 7 18 7 M 
N (КОСосасов  — зә 18 зв Y4 4 лелаз 
А (CLA)Color зуна — 3 V2 з Yl а 0" 
о (GAVN) CVN Cos. sm wm - аә 0 
А (DEG)DelawemieEnL. 2 12 2 A Em de 
© (66р) dick clark prot 4 SM 4 nom 
н (DS) Dlaney. LN V No LE 
н (OV) Dow Jones a Go, 39 wa 22 18 ШЕ 
о (tM)EnitahmenMdg — 3 4 — "ow 
© (кнм) Financial News, 6 34 a n 
А AFE) Fios nna. 2 78 2 sa 2 15 
М (GW)Qu + Weser _ ва 12 66 2 з амы 
о (HASI) Hal Roach k ag keii 
A (HHH) Heniiage Entertain 3 28 3 Ve PNE 
A (SN) Home Shopping Net — б 6 14 — w ss 
N (KWP) King Wara 18 за 16 14 To 
о (LAUR) Laurel Entertainment 1 3B 1 12 ~ awk 
A (LT)LodmarTolepictures__ 9 58 а SS т т o 
N (MCA) MCA зв 12 96 12 17 am 
н (MOM) MAMUA Commun 618 6 28 - л 36 
А (NHI) Nelson Holdings. мо mo- з ж 
А (МИЕ) Now Worid Enter — 3 58 4 - 1 з 


Market 
Closing Closing Capitali- 
Wed Wed Nei Percent PIE zation 


| Мо» 18 Novi! Change Change Ratio (000,000) 
| 


PROGRAMING ean 


н (OPC) Orton Pieturas. з s» в за в 
û (MOVE) Peregrine Entertain. 2 3 - 4 
H (PLA) Playboy En 11 nn- n 103 
а (QVCN) QVC Network. 7 в 12 та 45 
G(RvCC)ReewsCommun. 5 7B 6 V2 - 5% n 
0 (RPICA) Republic Pic. 'a'- 5 H a 
Q(RPICBRepubicPe. B в 12 в v2 4 
A (RHIJRoberlHalml 1 34 1 78 - va 3 
с (SMN) Sat MusicNet___ 3 1m IM 2 
а (TRSP)TH-SurPicues — 71 50 10 12 11% E 
MWC)Wamer. — 20 14 20 Va - 14 ama 
O (WW Westom Wond м V2 - ve 

о (WONE) Westwood Ore — 15 12 15 34 - 14 192 


O {взім)Витира Sma 7 58 т 1 Ld ят 
О (CVSDCompevieo. — 2 38 2 12 - va 15 
н {С0) Сотим. 28 X8 28 X8 “з 
н (FOB) Foote Cone а B. аз тв аз з w 182 
б (GREY) Grey Advertising — %3 101 -s 12 
о (DBX IDB Communications 8 E за E] 
н (PG)interpublicGroup__ 29 38 28 БВ за 652 
A (MOV)Movelb.  — 6 34 о 34 " 
© (OGIL) Озу Group. 2 36 23 12 LI E: 
 (OMCM)Omnkomüreup. 17 St 17 s E 
© (ЗАСИҮ) Saatchi а Saatchi 1а 14 18 12 - ла 2858 
O (LNT Telematon 1 34 1 X4 в 
А (TPO) TEMPO Enterprises — 7 Tm - n а 
A UNV Unti Video  — — 8 7B s 34 LI Ш 


FE 2 
A (ACN) American Gablo — 42 14 40 14 2 E 
0 @ICMayamer, Va Comm 20 18 21 T - 134 т 
А (CVC) Cabievinion Sya. A. 22 38 21 38 1 E 
N CNT) CentelCerm. 3 34 зт sa - m E] 
© {CCCOA) Century Commun.. 14 14 12 va 1400 
о (CMCSA) Сотова. mida oa a 26 
O (Е80ХА]Езвех Commun— 10 12 10 34 - va E! 
А FAL)Falcon Cable Systems 16 78 10 18 ES за 
0 (JOlN)Jonesintemabis — 9 12 9 12 29 
т (MHP.Q)Maciean Munter'X' 17 34 17 TB - 1з 24 
DARCCAA)RogeraCabieA 21 тв 3 

O (TCAT) TCA Cable TY. 22 вз 22 34 va % 
O (TCOMA)Tele-Commun..—— 20 5% 21 - ve эз 
N Сотто іп. 78 7% 79 34 T 12 
о (uACDUntedAr.Commun. 20 V4 19 14 y 168 
N (UCD unnad Cabin TV m тв 22 12 - 158 E 
м (/душет — — 16 12 36 14 3 

N (WU) Western Union. 230 258 - v 


NN ELECTRONICS MANUFACTURING amm 


н (ммм)зм &) ов 5 xe å ra na 17 мат 
О (АМО) AM Communic D 1 
н (ARV) Arvin industries... 7 - эт 
о CBU C-Cor Electronics _ 6 та 
о (CATV) Cable TV indus. —— 1 ва - 4 
А (СЕС Свое. 5 9 
н (сну ат - a 
А (CXC) CNX Corp, тте 6 
А Сон Саш 6 12 ї 2 
N (EK) Easiman Kodak. "зе 00.00 10528 
н (GRL) Gan. instrument __ PET 00.00 738 
н (GE) General Electric 4» в тзт onm ДЕЯ 
О (GETE) Gectel ine.. E 00.00 3 
н (HRS Harris Corp. — — 25 18 за шз 758 
O (MCOY) Microdyna — — 3246 - me -01.96 13 
N (MOT) Motorola С] 178 0718 512 
н (NPH) NA Phil 55 14 00.00 1609 
н (OAK) Osk industries — — 1 LS t 
А (PPI) Pico Products з m їз 0322 л 
н (SFA) Setanta - s -osse 22 
н (SNE) Sony Cop. ‘ 2025 9227 
н (ЕК) Tekttonk — — — -1 -@ё СЯ 
o mw wn 4 
N (WAR) Varian Assoc. -11@ -oes ^s 
N (YQ Westinghouse. Wa onos зато 
N G@e)zenth м мә 0270 285 
Standard 4 Poor's 400 2145 ем Lr 


T-Toronto, A-American, N-N.Y., O-OTC. Bid prices and common A stock used unless 
otherwise noted. "O" in P/E ratio is deficit. P/E ratios are based on earnings per snare 


{or the provious 12 months as published су Standard & Poor's or as oblained by 
Broaocastinas own research 


Broadeasing Nov 23 1987 


Microband brings wireless to New York 


Company is offering pay services 
via MDS to homes in Brooklyn, Bronx, 
Staten Island, Queens and New Jersey 


Microband Companies Inc. is off and 
running, offering some two million 
homes without cable in the outer bor- 
oughs of New York and the New Jersey 
suburbs a six-channel wireless cable 
service (“Closed Circuit," Nov. 2). 

The six channels: Home Box Office, 
Selec TV, Madison Square Garden Net- 
work, superstation WTBS(TV) Altanta, 
MTV and Nickelodeon. The prici 
$28.95 a month on top of a $39 installa- 
tion charge and a $25 deposit on the con- 
verter/descrambler. (A five-channel 
service [less either HBO or SelecTV] is 
available for $23.95 a month.) 

1n announcing the launch of the serv- 
ice last Monday (Nov. 16), Microband, 
which is doing business in New York as 
Wireless Cable of New York (WCNY), 
said it intends to increase the number of 
cable channels (and possibly the price by 
some not-yet-determined amount) over 
the next several months. It is capable of 
broadcasting up to 14 cable channels to 
homes and multiunit dwellings from its 
microwave transmission facilities atop 
the Empire State Building. 

Wireless cable operators use a mix of 
MDS, ITFS and OFS channels in the 2 
ghz band to broadcast multiple channels 
of mostly cable programing to homes 
equipped with special antennas and re- 
ceivers, The microwave signals cover an 
areas with a radius of up to 25 5. But 
because reception requires a line of sight 
to the transmission site, some homes 
within the nominal coverage 
unable to receive the transmi: 
cause of buildings, foliage or terrain. 

New York is but the first of three mar- 
kets Microband expects to conquer. 
Within the next few months, it also in- 
tends to launch similar wireless cable 
services in Detroit and Washington. Mi- 
croband has lined up 11 microwave 
channels in Detroit, 13 in Washington. 

In cach of the three markets, Micro- 
band wireless cable service will be built 
upon existing non-cable pay television 
services that it has purchased over the 
last year. In December 1986 Microband 
purchased Cooper Wireless, a single- 
channel MDS (HBO) operator serving 
nearly 80,000 homes in New York, and 
First National Home Theater, a single- 
channel MDS (HBO) operator serving 
26,000 homes in Detroit. In April 1987 it 
acquired American Family ‘Theater, a 
four-channel wireless cable operator 
(SelecTV, Home Team Sports, C-SPAN 
and CNN) serving féwer than 1,000 


homes in Washington, and, three 
months later, it bought Marquee Televi 
sion, a single-channel MDS (HBO) serv- 
ing some 27,000 homes in Washington. 

In addition to providing a subscriber 
base, the purchases also give Microband 
the use of at least one MDS or ITFS 
channel in each market and, more im- 
portant, the right to distribute HBO in 
each market. 

Microband apparently has the money 
to roll out services in all three markets. 
Drexel Burnham Lambert, the New 
York-base investment banker, has se- 
cured $72 million in long-term financing 
and equity for Microband and is putting 
the finishing touches on a $50-million 
line of credit. 

New York Life Insurance, which 
holds $25 million in senior subordinated 
notes, is the largest single investor. TA 
Associates, the Boston-based venture 
capital firm, holds $6 million in junior 
subordinated notes and $6 million in pre- 
ferred stock. 

According to Microband Chairman 
Mark Foster, some of the proceeds from 
the financing will be used to repay TA 
Associates, which provided “bridge fi- 
nancing" for the management buyout of 
Microband from McDonnell Douglas 
Corp. in May 1986 and the subsequent 
acquisition program, The bulk of it, 
however, will be available to cover start- 
up operation costs. 

Microband has agreements for six oth- 
er programing services—the programers 
include C-SPAN, The Learning Chan- 
nel, Financial News Nework/Score, 
Black Entertainment Television, Home 
Shopping Network and CNN Headlines 
News. But, said Foster, Microband pre- 
fers to introduce the additional program- 
ing gradually to enhance the marketing 
оп the service. “It gives us the ability for 
to go back and say, ‘There's more, 
there's more, there's more." 

Foster also acknowledged, however, 
that there are several cable services that 
Microband would like to add if it could 
cut a deal with them. Among these, he 
said, are ESPN, the Disney Channel, 
American Movie Classics and Sports- 
Channel New York, the New York- 
based regional sports channels that car- 
ries the Mets and Yankees baseball. 

Foster has hopes of striking a deal 
with ESPN. He noted that the service is 
available over wireless cable services in 
San Francisco, Milwaukee and Cleve- 
land and that negotiations with ESPN 
are continuing. “We presume the dis- 
cussions are being held in good faith а 
that we will eventually end up with the 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


Dis:cre-tion... 


1: the quality of being dis- 
creet: cautious, reserve in 
speech. 2; the ability to make 
responsible decisions. 


~ 


MVP, a discreet brokerage 
and financial service 
with integrity, whose princi- 
pals have initiated over 
$350,000,000 in transactions. 


Fora strictly confidential dis- 
cussion about buying, selling, 
financing and appraising. . 
cal] Media Venture Partners. 


MEDIA VENTURE 
PARTNERS 


Integrity and Discretion 
..the difference! 


RADIO and TELEVISION BROKERAGE 
FINANCING - APPRAISALS 


WASHINGTON, DC 
1255 23rd St., N.W., Suite 890 
Washington, D.C. 20037-1125 
201-785-4333 


ORLANDO 
7479 Conroy Rd., Suite С 
Orlando, FL 32811-3409 
305-295-2572 


DALLAS 
6311 №. O'Connor Rd. 
L.B. 97, Irving, TX 75039-3510 
214-869-7645 


SAN FRANCISCO. 
1700 Montgomery St., Suite 322 


San Francisco, CA94111-1024 
415-391-4877 


programing.” 

Microband has approached Disney, 
Foster said, but the family-oriented pay 
service has yet to say whether it is pre- 
pared to deal. Microband has had “some 
discussion” with SportsChannel, he 
said. However, the popular sports serv- 
ice “has not yet indicated it is willing to 
sell to us," he . “You would think 
that it would want the widest possible 
distribution for the Yankees and the 
Mets," he said. AMC has rcfused to do 
business with Microband, he said. 

(SportsChannel and AMC are princi- 
pally owned by Charles Dolan, an agres- 
Sive cable operator who holds the cable 
franchise foi of the area Microband 
has targeted for its service.) 

According to Microband's calcula- 
tions, there are some five million homes 
that fall within the coverage area of Mi- 
croband's transmitters. But, because of 
the line-of- ett limitations, only 4.4 mil- 
lion are “reachable” by the transmit- 
ters. Of the 4.4 million, more than2.4are 
already passed by cable. Microband's 
market comprises the balance—the 
nearly two ion "reachables" with- 
out access to cable. The targeted homes 
are in the New York boroughs of Brook- 
lyn, the Bronx, Staten Island and 

ueens and the close-in suburbs of 
northern New Jersey. Microband antici- 
pates signing up between 15% and 20% 
of all homes during the first marketing 
pass, Foster said. 


Microband is marketing its service 
just as cable operators do, including lo- 
cal broadcast signals as part of its serv- 
ice package. In other words, Microband 
service will ultimately comprise 28 chan- 
nels—14 broadcast and 14 microwave 
channels. It will be comparable to what 
Manhattan Cable, the cable system serv- 
ing Manhattan, now offers, said Foster. 

here are plans to build conventional 
cable systems in all the areas Microband 
has targcted, but Foster is unconcerned. 
“With the financing we have been able 
to arrange, we will be able to be aggres- 
sive and bring service to these markets 
well before cable," he said. 

If cable should come, he said, “we 
will be able to hold our own. If we are 
able to provide the type of package we 
are going to provide, we will be here a 
long time to соте.” 

Foster would not go so far as to say 
that Microband's wireless cable service 
would preempt cable in any part of the 
city. But, he said, the basic economics 
of less cable are more attractive. 
While a wireless cable system costs less 
than $400 per subscriber to build, he 
said, a conventional cable system in ur- 
ban areas can cost more than $2,000 per 
subscriber, assuming a penetration rate 
of 33%. 

The concept of wireless cable was cre- 
ated by private enterprise, not the FCC, 
Foster said. "What we were able to do is 
utilize technology to integrate all the 


ON C OCR IP 


OCTOBER SALES 


WOUR/WUTQ-FM Utica, New York $3,000,000 
| WIBM AM/FM Lansing, Michigan $4,075,000 
| KGRCFM Quincy, Illinois $ 825,000 

WNAVAI'HFS-FM Annapolis, Maryland $8,240,000 

KAYU-TV Spokane, Washington $7,700,000 
| КСМХ AM/FM Ashland-Medford, Oregon $ 700,000 

KNZS/KMBY-FM Aptos-Capitola/ 

Seaside, California $4,200,000 


Put our specialized marketing efforts 
to work for you 


BLACKBURNG COMPANY 


О UR. Ж. TE 


1100 Connecticur Ave, NW 400 Colony Square 
(202) 331-9270 (404) 592.4055 


Media Brokers & Appraisers Since 1947 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20036 ATLANTA, CA 3036! CHICAGO, IL 60601 BEVERLY HILLS, CA 90212 


9465 Wilshire Blvd. 
(213) 27aarst 


333 N. Michigan Ave. 
(312) 346-6460 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


available over the air channels into a 
composite wireless cable system that 
makes the channels easily accessible to 
the consumer,” he said. 

In most cases, Microband intends to 
attach a special microwave receiving an- 
tenna alongside the subscriber's UHF/ 
VHF antenna and all signals 
through a single “combiner” and cable 
to an addressable Zenith Z-TAC con- 
verter/descrambler on top of the televi- 
sion set. In addition to descrambling all 
the microwave signals it has been au- 
thorized to descramble, the 100-channel 
converter/descrambler, which features 
remote-control tuning and volume con- 
gol, will also tune in the broadcast sig- 
nals. 

According to Foster, it will cost be- 
tween $300 and $350 to equip each home 
to receive the wireless cable service. 
The final cost will depend on how diffi- 
cult the installation is and whether the 
subscriber needs an outdoor UHF/VHF 
antenna to go along with the microwave 
antenna. 

Microband leases its channels from a 
variety of licensees, including Educa- 
tional Broadcasting Corp.; the Board of 
Education, Mineola Union Free School 
District; the Network for Instructional 
Television Inc.; Union (N.J.) Board of 
Education; Hispanic Information and 
Telecommunications Network and 
Group W Radio Inc. 


Fritts decries 
transfer tax 


NAB head tells FCBA audience of 


Broadcasters are wil to pay their 
share of taxes," said National As- 
n of Broadcasters President Ed- 
E Fritts. But what the industry won't 
accept, said Fritts, is a ‘special dis- 
criminatory burden on us alone.” 

Fritts who spoke at a Federal Commu- 
nications Bar Association luncheon in 
Washington last week was referring to a 
Senate proposal that would impose a 275 
to 5% license transfer fee on the sale of 
broadcast properties. The money col- 
lected would be applied toward reducing 
the federal budget deficit in the first two 
years of the fees existence and to fund- 
ing public broadcasting thereafter 
(BROADCASTING, Oct. 26 et seq). 

Fritts spoke against what he called a 
“Jet's soak the rich broadcasters” ap- 
proach to taxation. He said Congress is 
operating under the assumption that all 
broadcasters are ‘cash cows waiting to 
be milked.” But that is not the case, he 
countered, saying that instead thou- 
sands of radio stations and hundreds of 
TV stations are “not meeting bottom- 
line projections because they operate in 
an intensely competitive environment.” 

“This approach also ignores the fact 


that all broadcasters pay their fair share 
of income and capital gains taxes and 
pay for the use of the spectrum through 
public service, public affairs, news pro- 
graming and other services. to the Ameri- 
can people," he added. "Nor does it 
recognize that—unlike many other users 
of the spectrum—broadcasters provide 
all their services free to the public." 

Later, in taking questions from the au- 
dience, Fritts suggested there were oth- 
er ways to raise revenues that would not 
single out broadcasters. One way would 

to “tack a 1% fee on federal income 
tax, which wouldn’t hurt anybody and 
would raise huge amounts of mon- 
ey...that Spreads it equally,” he said. “I 
am not making a proposal,” Fritts insist- 
ed, rather, he said, he was “simply say- 
ing there arc other ways to raisc reve- 
nues. You could freeze the income tax 
Tates where they are today as opposed to 
letting them go into the lower brackets. 
There are hundreds of ways that reve- 
nues can be raised to satisfy government 
constraints.” But to target particular in- 
dustries, Fritts continued, ‘‘is not the 
proper way to do it because industries 
are currently paying their fair share un- 
der the current corporate structure.” 

As for the long-term financing of pub- 
lic broadcasting, Fritts felt it could be 
accomplished by other means. NAB has 
already recommended several alterna- 
lives including í an excise tax on televi- 
sions, ra VCR's, charging a fee 
for ccllular radio applicants and auction- 
ing off nonbroadcast spectrum (BROAD- 
CASTING, Nov. 16). 

Personally, Fritts told the FCBA at- 
tendees, he has concerns about a spec- 
trum auction. Asked whether a federally 
funded public broadcasting system is 
needed, he said the public “should pay 
fora public broadcasting system,” a sys- 
tem that he believes "serves a very im- 
portant niche in our society. 

Fritts finds the transfer tax just one of 
the major challenges facing his industry, 
His remarks focused on what he called 
the “twin Ts':taxes and technol 
which he feels are crucial issues. "They 
will confront us with the vigor of kudzu 
in a southern summer. We must master 
them or they will bury us,"’ said Fritts. 

The development of high-definition 
television tops NAB's list of technologi- 
cal priorities. The formation of an FCC 
advisory committee on HDTV is viewed 
by the association as a positive step 
Nevertheless, Fritts thinks the group's 
May 1988 deadline for a report on spec- 
trum requirements for HDTV may be 
"unreali: Шу short." He said there 
are many questions and "we may not 
find the answers to these questions in six 
months or even a year.” 

In Japan, over-the-air broadcasters 
have accepted a wide-screen video 
which he said is not true HDTV. “They 
have already accepted second-class citi- 
zenship. We will not." 

He indicated NAB will remain vigilant 
on the HDTV front; NAB officials trav- 
eled to Japan last month to discuss 
HDTV developments (BROADCASTING, 


Nov. 2). “We made clear that the transi- 
tion to HDTV in this country must bc 
orderly and smooth—taking into ac- 
count the many billions of dollars broad- 
casters and consumers have invested in 
the NTSC system," said Fritts. A fur- 
ther exchange of vicws may occur in 
January. He said NAB has invited Japa- 
nese officials to attend a meeting that 
will include Canadian and Mexican 


broadcasters at the close of the NAB 
board meeting in Hawaii on Jan. 22. 

In wrapping up his speech, Fritts 
stressed again the importance of the 

“twin t's." "How masterful we are in 
affecting policy in these two areas will 
determine whether broadcasting as we 
have known it for the past 65 years will 
enter into the 2151 century as a strong 
voice of community service,” he said. 


Changingshands 


— ношр 
WKSG(FM) Mount Clements, Mich. a Sold 


by Inner City Broadcasting to Ragan Henry 
National Media Associates for $6,750,000. 


Seller is New York-based group of four 
AM's and three FM’s, headed by Percy 
Sutton. Buyer is owned by Ragan A. Henry, 
who also has interest in WxTR(FM) Washing- 


Knowing’ 


what itis 


cea tell you 
how touse It. 


А paintbrush in the hands ofa Sunday painter 


is an amusement. But in the hands ofa maste! 


an expressive medium. The difference is more than 
talent and reputation, it’s creativity and expertise. 
Heller Financial's experience in lending money 
to the communications industry is why we feel 
“Professionalism is Priceless? We bring to each 
meeting the willingness and the flexibility to make 


things work. 


For comprehensive financing programs to 
facilitate the acquisition, development and refinan- 
cing of broadcast properties and cable television 
systems, call Matt Breyne at 312/621-7665 or 
Doug Zylstra at 312/621-7638. 


Ed Heller Financial 


Equipment Finance Group + Chicago, IL 


Breadeasting Nov 23 1987 
73 


ton and WWDB(FM) Philadelphia. He recently 
bought KCwV(AM) Leavenworth and КСМ. 
FM Fairway. both Kansas ("Changing Hands,” 
Nov, 9). WKSG is on 102.7 mhz with 50 
kw and antenna 410 feet above average 
terrain. Broker: The Mahlman Co 


KWIZ-AM-FM Santa Ana, Calif. © Sold by 
Lieberman Broadcasting Inc. to Kwiz Ltd. 
Partnership for $6,250,000. Selter is owned 
by Phillip C. Davis. principal in Davis- 
Weaver Broadcasting, Jose. Calif.- 

based group of three AM 's and three FM's. 
Buyer is owned by Jose Lieberman, former 
owner of KTNOQ(AM)-KLVE(FM) Los Angeles. 
KwIz is on 1480 khz full time with 5 kw. 


Ж 


KWIZ-FM is on 96.7 mhz with 3 kw and 
antenna 115 feet above average terrain 
Broker; Chapman Associates. 

WCCT-TV Columbia, S.C. с Sold by Caroli 
Christian Broadcasting Inc. to FCV Com- 
munications Inc. for $3.7 million, compris- 
ing assumption of $2.5-million note and 
other expenses. Seller is Greenville, S.C - 
based group of four TV's owned by James 
H. Thompson. Buyer is Owncd by Walter 
K. Flynn, former ABC executive with no 
other broadcast interests. WCCTTV is inde- 
pendent on channel $7 with 637 kw visual, 
63.7 kw aural and antenna 607 fect above 
average terrain. 


Man of letters. Commercial and noncommercial broadcasters don't always see eye to 
eye. That was the case last week In a letter sent by National Association of Broadcasters 
President Eddie Fritts to National Public Radio President Douglas Bennet. 

Fritts took exception to some of Bennel's remarks made during а Senate Communica- 
tions Subcommittee hearing on public broadcasting (BROADCASTING, Nov. 16). It sounded 
to Fritts, ne wrote to Bennet, "as though your plan to use NPR's resources to encourage the 
public to contact Congress in support of the Hollings [Senator Ernest Hollings (0-5 C.)] 
transfer tax/aiimess doctrine proposal The proposal would levy a tax on the sale of 
broadcast progerlies, after two years the funds would go to public broadcasting. It would 
also codify the fairness doctrine. 

Bennet's suggestion, "could raise serious questions concerning your use of federal 
funds,” Fritts wrote Using government programing money to jobby—whether on air or by 
the use of facilities, staff and the ma'l—violates the insulation which public broadcasters 
have always advocated, " he added 

And the NAB chief said he was unhappy with Benner's implication that commercial 
broaccasting's support for long-term financing o! public broadcasting is "recent and 
driven by polilical expeciency." Said Fritts: “That is plain wrong The NAB board has 
publicly supported long-range federal financial support since 1975. " 

He also suggested there are other means for financing public broadcasting and ques- 
tioned whether Bennet wants to "put all your eggs in one basket.” 

Bennet, on the other hand, denied he seid NPR would use ils airtime or any program 
resource to “iniluence this or any other legislation." He indicated he wanted lo maintain 
the traditionally "good relations" between the two sectors of broadcasting But, Bennet 
wrote, NPR believes the Hollings proposal is the "fairest and most workable option.” As 
for his comments concerning commercial broadcasting’s position on long-term funding, 
Bennet apologized, His statement at the hearing, he said, “cid not fully re 
past support 

The matter, however, did not end there. Fritts last week also wrote to all members ol the 
Senate. He wanted to insure that the association's fight against the transfer tax was not 
being interpreted as anti-public broadcasting. "NAB stands ready to work with public 
broadcasters and Congress to help find the best way to provide stable, long-term support 
for public broadcasting," Fritts's letter stated, The letter included several arguments. 
against the transfer fee. He said it has driven “a wedge between commercial and public 
broadcasters." Furthermore, Fritts argued, public broadcasting is in no immediate dan- 
ger if the proposal is defeated. Funds for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting have 
been appropriated through 1990, which, he said, should give Congress, "ample opportu- 
nity to give the issue ot a new trust fund for public broadcasting the study and consider- 
ation it deserves, but which it did no: receive. 


GOOD GAME PLAN. When the game plan 


is figuring your station’s worth, what's vour best 
plan? Ask Rounsaville; he knows. 


Robert W, Rounsaville (“Associates 

а 

MEDIA BROKERS AND CONSULTANTS 
CALL TOLL FR 


ANTA, GA 1-500- -1500 
ORLANDO, FL 1-800-328-3500 


Brosdcasiing Nov 23 1987 
74 


WAMR(AM)-WCTQ(FM) Venice, Fla. 0 Sold 
by Hall Communications to Asterisk Radio 
for $3 million. Seller is Norwich, Conn.- 
based group of six AM's and six FM's 
owned by Robert M. Hall. Buyer is owned 
by Fred Ingham, who also owns WTRSAM- 
FM Dunnellon and wJST(FM) Panama City, 
Florida. WAMR is daytimer on 1320 khz 
with 5 kw. WcTQ is on 92.1 mhz with 3 
kw and antenna 300 feet above average 
terrain, Broker: Stan Raymond & Associates. 


KKBJ-AM-FM Bemidji, Minn. о Sold by Be- 
midji Radio Inc. (о CD Broadcasting Corp. 
for $1,300,000. Seller is owned by Justin 
Hoberg, who also owns XUKNFM) Grand 
Forks and КТҮМАМ) Minot, both North 
Dakota, Buyer is owned by Cristopher T. 
Dahl. It also owns KLGRAM-FM Redwood 
Falls, KLIZAM-FM. Brainerd and KXRAAM 
FM Alexandria, all Minnesota. KKBJ is on 
1360 khz with 5 kw day and 2.5 kw night. 
KxBI-FM is оп 103.7 mhz with 100 kw and 
antenna 460 feet above average terrain 


KEZJ-AM-FM Twin Falls, Idaho о Sold by 
Ksrv Inc. to B&B Broadcasting Inc. for 
$970,000. Seller is owned by David Kapps, 
who also owns KSRV(AM) KXBQ(FM) Ontari 
Ore. Buyer is owned by George Broadbin 
and Robert Barron, investors with no other 
broadcast interests. КЕЎ) is on 1450 khz full 
time with 1 kw, KEZJ-FM is on 95.7 mhz 
with 50 kw and antenna 670 feet above 
average terrain. Broker: Chapman Associates. 


WJCM(AM) Sebring, Fla. c Sold by Wicm 
Inc. to Gerald L. Saltzer and his wife, N 
ior $590,000. Seller is owned by lim 
Eshleman, who has no other broadcast 
interests. Buyer is general sales manager of 
WNTWCTV) Poland Spring, Me. WIC is on 
960 khz with 5 kw day and 1 kw night 


KPLA(AM) Riverbank, Calif. с Soldby David 
C. Williams to Bernald 1983 Family Trust 
for $550,000. Seller has no other broadcast 
interests. Buyer is owned by Eugene R 
Bernald and family. He is stations sales 
manager. KPLA is on 770 khz with 50 kw 
day and 1 kw night 


KBVB(FM) Crete, Neb. о Sold by Saline 
County Radio, Inc. to Star City Broad- 
casting, Inc. for $350,000. Seller is owned 
by Melville L. Gleason, who has no other 
broadcast interests. Buyer is principally 
owned by Roger Agnew, who also has 
interest in new FM in Honolulu. KBVB is 
on 103.9 mhz with 3 kw and antenna 225 
feet above average terrain. 


KTCR(AM) Wagoner, Okla. с Sold by Tele- 
monde Corp. to Superior international 
Communications Inc. for $350,000. Seller is 
owned by Ellen Durfey and family. It has 
no other broadcast interests. Buyer is owned. 
by John Cranston and family. Cranston is 
California-based real estate investor with 
по other broadcast interests, KCTR is dayti- 
mer on 1530 khz with | kw 

WCRE(AM) Cheraw, S.C. o Sold by Orr 
Broadcasting Inc. to De Hope Commu- 
nications Inc. for $285,000. Seller is owned 
by Michael Orr, who has no other broadcast 
interests. Buyer is owned by Albert William 
De Hope Il, who also has interest in 
WPCN(AM) Mount Pocono, Pa. WCRE is 
daytimer on 1420 khz with | kw. 


leuc 


Old college try 


Jones International, the parent company 
of Jones Intercable, is teaming with Colo- 
rado State University and the Annen- 
berg/Corporation lor Public Broadca: 
ing Project, to deliver bachelor-degree 
college courses on cable systems. 

The service, Mind Extension Universi 
ty, will provide courses ranging from the 
humanities and social sciences to mathe- 
matics and science. It will operate similar 
to traditional college courses, with stu- 
dents poving. tuition ($200 to $400 per 
course), obtaining textbooks and study 
guides. A typical course will be viewed 
in 15 one-hour segments, or 30 hali-hour 
segments. Students will forward home 
work to a designated instructor for grad- 
ing and comment. The university will set 
up times when studente may telephone 
instructors to discuss their work. 

Some of the courses will feature docu 
mentaries that will take students behind 
the scenes on historical situations. 
Amongthose who will be providing com- 
mentary and narration are poet Maya 
Angelou, economists Paul Samuelson 
and Milton Friedman, U.S. senators and 
representatives, and journalists David 
'umacher and Edwin Newman. 

Donald Sutton, dean of the university, 
said Colorado State “will evaluate 
courses for suitability within the schools 
curriculum, provide personal faculty 
counsel by telephone at regularly sched- 
uled hours for students, establish aca 
demic records and grade students’ per- 
formance.” Sutton said earned credits 
can be applied for accredited degree 
programs at other institutions, but it will 
be that school’s decision whether to ac- 
cept MEU courses. 

bbi Kamil, of the Annenberg/CPB 
Project, said MEU is a step forward in 
telecourses, and has been aided by the 
proliferation of videocassetle recorders, 
Kamil said Jones will make available to 
students tapes of programs they may 
miss during the semester. 

Glenn R. Jones, chairman of Jones In- 
ternational, said "we expect the initial 
interest to come from those who find 
study time and travel difficult because of 
personal, family or professional de- 
mands.” 


Cable target 


The National Decency Foundation—the 
organization that prompted the FCC to 
crack down on indecent aspects of 
"shock" radio—may target cable inde- 
сепсу when members reconvene in 
Washington next March for another 
round of protests and lobbying. With the 
growing “pervasiveness” of cable, said 
NDF's Brad Curl, "there is something in- 
consistent about saying the local televi- 


sion station can't broadcast indecent pro- 
graming, but the local cable system 
can.” 


Tempo Development Corp. has intr 
duced two new configurations of its 
TVRO package lineup tor cable opera- 
tors, bringing to five the number of pack- 
ages available. The economy saipak 
consists of WIBSTV) Atlanta, WWORTY 
New York, CNN, CNN Headline News 
and Cinemax and retails for $16.95. The 
new premium package adds ESPN, 
USA, CBN and HBO to the above lineup 
and retails for $29.95. 

Essentially the package reflects serv- 
ices that have authorized cable opera- 
tors to market them in the operators fran- 
chise areas and contiguous counties. 
TDC handles the back office duties for 
cable operators and charges them $3.20 
and $4.50 per subscriber, respectively, 
for those chores. 

Tempo's other three packages, which 
include Showtime/The Movie Channel, 
are sold within the franchises of cpera- 
tors because Viacom has not granted 
contiguous county rights. 


Football on the rise 


ESPN ratings for its second regular sea- 
son game, the Los Angeles Raiders vs. 
San Diego, improved over week one 
The game scored a 7.7 in cable homes, 
(3.4 million households) and ESPN esti- 
mated it got a 8.0 in combined broadcast 
able audience. The estimate stems from 
there being no overnight metering in the 
San Diego market. KTTVITV) Los Angeles, 
which carried the gone. scored an 11. 
The week before, ESPN's ratings were 7. 
in cable homes and 8,5 combined broad: 
cast/cable. 


New nostalgia 


The Nostalgia Channel has nearly dou- 
bled its subscriber count, jumping from 
1,460,000 to 2,500,000, with the signing of 
Cooke Cablevision, which owns 9% of 
the network, and Rogers Cablesystems. 
The Cooke systems account for 600,000 
subscribers, including the 150,000 from 
its purchase of First Carolina; the Rogers 
systems added 447,000 subs. 

In addition, Nostalgia announced it 
was adding 34 films from the Weiss Glob- 


Diane Healey Linen, 


Washington, D.C. 20036. 


^. that last guy promised us the 
moon, then delivered excuses 
when we couldn't get our price 
Front now on, we'll use СЕА“ 


e 


COMMUNICATIONS 


Kent Phillips, Glenn Serafin EQUITY _ Harold Ewen 
202-778-1400 ASSOCIATES BIJAT7-8844 

1133 20th Street NW 5401 W. Kennedy Blvd 
Suite 260 Station purch ales Suite 851 


and financings 
Member: National associrian of Se 


Rick Michaels, 


Tampa, Florida 33609 
rites Dealers, Inc. and SIPC 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1967 


al library to the network's lineup. The 
Weiss films include many westerns from 
the late 1940's and early 50's. 


Country favorites 


The Nashville Network plans to hold a 
Viewers’ Choice Awards competition as 
part of its fifth anniversary next April. 
Winners in categories will be decided b 
а vote of cable subscribers through a 90 
telephone number, 

The awards ceremony will be held on 
April 26 and shown live on TNN. The cat 
egories are favorite male and female vo- 
calist, group, entertainer, album, song, 
video and newcomer, 


Getting technical 


The National Cable Television Assccia- 
tion has sent out a call for technical pa- 
pers to be presented at its convention 
next year, April 30-May 3, in Los Ange- 
les. The ‘deadline for presenting 250 
word summaries is Jan. 1. They 
judged on Jan. 6 by an NCTA engineer- 
ing subcommittees. 


Merlis on the move 


Ed Merlis, who was vice president, gov- 
ernment affairs for the National Cable 
Television Association, will leave NCTA 
to join Telaction Corp. as president of its 
cable affiliate division. Merlis, among 
other legislative efforts, played a major 


“Its been said 
we ‘quietly make 
big deals happe: 

“We're not shy 
orhumble. We just 
enjoy closing a 
$20 million sale 

o one’s 


Its no wonder John Babcock doesn't have to make a lot 
of noise to close a deal. He has over 25 years of experience 
in acquiring and operating TV and radio stations. Contact 
John or his associates at one of the following offices. 


Cincinnati, OH: (513) 3817775 Richard C Cı 


107) 257-6283 john В Васе ncs NE (407) 475-9285, 


role in supporting the Cable Communi- 
cations Policy Act in 1984. 

Telaction, a consumer controlled 
home shopping and information service, 
is owned by [C Penney. Currently, sub- 
scribers can order merchandise from Te- 
Jaction's 40 stores and services using the 
keypad of their touch-tone phone. Telac- 
tion initially is being marketed in the Chi- 
cago area, but it is planned for national 
roll-out 


‘Travel’ supporters. 


‘The number of advertisers on The Travel 
Channel, which launched last February, 
has topped 200, according to Earl Quen: 
zel, senior vice president-marketing and 
sales. 

Flyfaire has contributed over $500,000 
in advertising on the channel and will 
have a half-hour w on Caribbean, 
airing three times daily. It is the tour op- 
erator's first network television buy. The 
Royal Cariobean Cruise Lines, a retum- 
ing advertiser, plans to spend $250,000 in 
advertising on the channel beginning 
early next year. Other recen! signings 
include Walt Disney World, Interconti- 
nental Hotels, Resorts International, Par- 
adise Island Tourism Development Asso- 

iation and Puerto Rican Tourism. 

Advertising on the channel comes in 
the form of 30- and 60-second spots and 
two-minute sales videos. Although many 
cl the service's advertisers are travel-re- 
Jated—Cunard cruise lines and hotels, 
Hilton, Marriott, Japan Air Lines, Lufth- 


K 


ic G Наше, un Wood, John D. Chapman. 


ichard | VIS red 
Consultant: Ward L Cual Company, Chicago (L (312) 644-6066 and Los Angeles, CA (213) 2779399. 


Broadcasting Nov 29 1987 


ansa, Pan Am, TWA, Hertz and Budget, 
the service has a number of nontravel 
advertisers, including Austin Reed, Busi- 
ness Week, Fuji Films, Christian Science 
Monitor, Wall Street Journal, Road and 
Track, Architectural Digest and Tennis 
and Geli magazines 


Explaining the ratings 


Kay Koplivitz, president of the USA Net- 
work, in a speech іо a marketing club in 
Denver, quantified the growth in ratings 
of the one-hour, off-network, Airwolf se- 
ries on USA. Its weekday October rating 
was 2.3, a full point above last year, rep- 


resenting a household increase from 
350,000 to one milli 


More silence 


The Silent Network, which programs two 
hours each week on cable for the deat 
and hearing impaired, has signed two 
major advertisers to its service, AT&T 
and Sports Illustrated, Marlee Matlin, the 
deaf actress who an Academy Award for 
“Children of a Lesser God,” hosts a series 
of infomercials by AT&T. In them she de- 
scribes AT&T's special services for the 


the network. 


CBN cutbacks 


The corporate parent of the CBN cable 
network announced layoffs last week to 
taling 145. The layoffs are expected to 
save it $9 million and help balance the 
budget. A CBN network spokesman said 
the cuts do not affect the cable network, 
and that the network has added em- 
ployes the past year. CBN said a 
downturn in contributions caused the 
budget shortfall. 


Viacom honors 


Viacom Cable has presented four em- 
ployes with its Office of Chief Executive 
awards, They are Cathy Chrisman, ac- 
counts supervisor, Viacom Cable; Roger 
Hooker, construction manager, Everett, 
Wash.; Shirley Gulbransen, office man- 
ager, Мара, Calif., and Dean Pohikotte, 
maintenance supervisor, Dayton, Ohio. 


Public critical of intrusive press coverage in political campaign 


Times Mirror-Gallup Survey also 
finds favorability ratings 
network news anchors dropping 


The latest installment of a Times Mirror- 
Gallup Organization survey of the pub- 
lic's attitude toward media finds respon- 
dents critical of press coverage of per- 
sonal aspects of the lives of political 
candidates, uninterested in the presiden- 
tial campaign so far and leaning less fa- 
voribly toward the three network news 
anchors. 

The survey, the sixth in an installment 
dating back to June 1985, found that only 
15% and 13% of the population followed 

"very closely" news about the Demo- 
cratic and Republican presidential can- 
didates, respectively. The rescue of Jes- 
sica McClure from a well in Texas was 
followed “‘very closely" by 69% of re- 
spondents, followed by the stock market 
crash, 40%, and the U.S. Navy escort 
operations in the Persian Gulf, 37% 

A majority of respondents in the 
1, 500-person survey said the press went 
too far in the coverage of the Gary Hart- 
Donna Rice incident and the news about 
Pat Robertson's first child being con- 
ceived out of wedlock. Of thosc sur- 
veyed, 68% and 65%, respectively, said 
the press went too far in those instances, 
Regarding charges of plagiarism against 
Joe Biden, Po the press went too 
far, and 3296 had the same reaction to 
coverage of charges that members of Mi- 
chael Dukakis's campaign gave news or- 
ganizations tapes showing that Biden 
plagiarized his speeches. 

When asked to choose one factor the 
press should pay attention to, 4596 said 
the candidate's experience and qualifi- 
cations, 41% a candidate's stand on is- 
sues, and only 9% a candidate's personal 
character. On the character issue in spe- 
cific there was division, with 49% saying 
the press was doing a fair or poor job, 
and 47% saying the press was doing a 
good or excellent job. 

"The survey results provided guide- 
lines where respondents drew the line in 
coverage. Exaggeration of military re- 
cords should be reported "almost al- 
ways," said 68%, evading taxes 65%, 
exaggerating academic records 64%, 
and disclosure of а candidate’s homo- 
sexuality 5596. But what fell below the 
majority line was a candidate's extra- 
marital affairs, with 41% saying it should 
almost always be reported, and a college 
arrest for marijuana possession, 36%. 

The network anchor ratings dropped 
signficantly, with CBS's Dan Rather's 
ratings dropping the most, from a 40% 
very favorable rating in-June 1985 to 


24% in this survey. Peter Jennings's fell 
from 33% to 25% and Tom Brokaw's 
from 29% to 23%. But in the last two 
cases, the drops in the very favorable 
category were regained in the next posi- 
tive category, mostly favorable. Jen- 
nings's rose from 41% to 49%, and Bro- 
kaw's from 40% to 46%. Rather's mostly 
favorable rating also rose, from 41% to 
49%, but did not make up the difference 
from the 40% to 24% drop in very favor- 
able. Rather lost ground in the very un- 
favorable. category, going from 2% to 
5%, and in the “can’t rate" category, 
which rose from 5% to 10%. The Cable 
News Network got good marks. Of 
those surveyed, 20% had a very favor- 
able opinion in 1985, and that increasd to 
23% in the latest survey. CNN also in- 
creased in the mostly favorable catego- 
Ty, rising from 24% to 30%. 

The overall favorability rating of tele- 
vision network news regained lost 
ground in the last survey period, with 
81% saying it was favorable and 13% 
unfavorable. In June 1985 the numbers 
were 84%/10%, and dropped to 74%/ 
22% in January 1987. Favorable/unfa- 
vorable ratings for newspapers were 
8196/1396, the same as TV's, in October- 
November 1987, 7695/1996 in January 
1987 and 819/81 in June 1985. The low 
points were attributed to coverage of the 
Iran-contra affair, according Gallup 
President Andrew Kohut, who said: 
"President Reagan's approval ratings 
dropped significantly...but the messen- 
ger of that bad news—the press—also 
took a very hard hit." 

In further breakdown, questions relat- 
ed to the presidential campaign, 59% of 
respondents said the press had too much 
influence in determining a party's presi- 
ЧЕП nomince, while 31% said ithad 

ht amount. What topped the list of 
pes laints in the coverage was intru- 
siveness, by 18%, followed by too bi- 
ased coverage, 5%. The respondents 
still favored close scrutiny of candi- 
dates, with 59% saying it was worth it, 
while 32% saying it was not. 

On the issues, 39% said the press was 
doing a good job in presenting the issucs 
while another 30% said the press was 
doing “only a fair" job in that category. 
The reportage of a candidate's experi- 
ence and qualifications drew similar re- 
sponses, with 37% giving it good marks, 
and 38% only fair. There was good news 
on perceived bias, with 62% believing 
press had no bias, 16% saying it was 
tilted in favor of the Democrats and 11% 
Republicans. 

The survey followed up on responses 
by people who were divided into 11 po- 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


litical groups, ranging from pure Repub- 
licans (enterprisers and moralists) to 
GOP leaners (upbeats and disaffecteds), 
to nonvoters (bystanders) to Democratic 
leaning groups (followers and seculars) 
to core Democratic groups (60's Demo- 
crats, new dealers, partisan poor and 

passive poor). In general, the survey 
found that Republican-oriented groups 
were less favorable toward network 
news than Democratic groups, with the 
enterprisers being the most critical. The 
enterprises had bad reviews for Rather, 
with 30% having an unfavorable opi 
ion, while only 13% and 12% had unfa- 
vorable opinions of Brokaw and Jen- 
nings, respectively. Yet thc optimistic 
upbeats were least likely (6%) to have 
unfavorable views of network news, 
while the seculars (18%) were among the 
biggest network critics. 

Despite the many problems ге: spon 
dents had with press coverage о! 
presidential campaign, 58% believe the 
campaign is getting the right amount of 
coverage and relatively few feel cover- 
age is biased or unfairly favors a particu- 
lar candidate. 


Smith and Sullivan 
new CBS morning team 


CBS completed its search for a male co- 
host for its 7-9 a.m. news program last 
week with the expected announcement 
that CBS News Dallas correspondent 
Harry Smith will join Kathleen Sullivan 
when the program debuts on Nov. 30 
("In Brief," Nov. 16). CBS This 
Morning will reportedly be the net- 
work's 20th attempt at programing the 
morning time period since the 1950's. 

The naming of Smith follows an exten- 
sive search for a male anchor for the new 
show that included auditions at show’s 
New York studios of several possible 
anchors. The leading candidate for the 
role prior to the naming of Smith had 
been Peter Mansbridge, a 19-year veter- 
an of the Candian Broadcasting Corp. 
Mansbridge turned down an offer from 
CBS to co-anchor the new morning 
show on Wednesday, Nov. 11, after he 
was reportedly offered the anchor job on 
the CBC's national newscast, The Na- 
tional, beginning next spring. 

Prior to Mansbridge, another leading 
contender was KCBS-TV Los Angeles 
sportscaster Pat O'Brien. 

Since joining CBS News in 1986, the 
36-year-old Smith has worked on such 
Stories as the plight of Afghan refugees. 


As compiled by BROADCASTING, Nov.11- 
Nov. [8 and based on filings, authorizations 
and other FCC actions 


Abbreviations: AFC—Antenna For Communications 
‘ALJ—Administrtive Law Judge. ait—alternate. ann. 
announced, ant—antenna, aut—aural. sux.—auxiliary. 
ch.—channel. CH—critical hours. chg—change. CP—con- 
stmiction permit. D—day. DA—directional antenna, Doc 
Docket, ERP—elfective radiated power HAAT—helght 
above average terrain. H&V—horizontal and vertical. 
Khz—kilobertz, kw—kilowatts. lie —license, m or M—me- 
ers. MEOC— maximum expected operation value. mhz— 
megahertz mi. miles. mod modification, N—night. pet 
for recon- petition for reconsideration. PSA—presunrise 
service authority. pir power. RC—remote control. S-A— 
Scicatific-Atlanta, SH— specified hours. SL—studio loca- 
tion, TL—iransmier location, trans transmitter. TPO— 
transmitter power output. U or unl—unlimited bours. vis — 
visual. w—watts, "noncommercial. Six groups of num- 
bers at end of facilities changes items refer to map coordi- 
nates. 1 meter—3.28 feet, 


Ownership Changes 


Applications 
= KPLA(AM)Riverhank, CA (BTC871103ED:; 770khz;50 
kw-D; 1 kw-N}Seeks assignment of license from David 
C. Williams to Bernald 1983 Family Trust for $550,000, 
Seller has no other broadcast interests, Buyer is owned by 
Eugene R. Bemald and family He is station's sales 


manager. Filed Nov. 3. 


= WICM(AM) Sebring, FL (BTCE? |102EA; 960 khz; 5 
kw-D, 1 kw-N}— Seeks assignment of license fromm WJCM 
Ine. ro Gerald L, Saltzer and his wife, Niki, for $590,000. 
Seller is owned by Jim Eshleman, who has no other 
broadcast imeresis. Buyer is general sales manager of 
WMTWCTV) Poland Spring. ME. Filed Now. 3. 


9 WGML{AM) Hinesville, GA (BTC871103EA; 990khz; 
250 w-D}—Secks assignment of license from Andrew J. 
Mcgowan, Jt. to E.D. Steele, Jr. for $8,100, Seller and 
buyer have no other broadcast imerests, Filed Now. 3. 


= WHOI(TV)Peoria, IL; KOSATV Odessa, TX; WTRE-TV 
‘Wheeling, WY, and WMTV(TV) Madison and WSAW-TV 
Wausau, both Wisconsin. (WHOL: ch, 19; 2.240 kw vis., 
224 кы аш.; HAAT: 636 fi; KOSATV: ch. 7; 316 kw 
vis., 39.8 kw aur; HAAT: 740 fL; WTRETV: ch. 7; 316 
kw Mis., 30.9 kw aur; HAAT: 960 ft WMTV: ch. 15; 794 
kw vis., 79.4 kw aur; HAAT: 1,160 f; WSAW-IV: ch.7; 
316 kw vis, 63.2 kw aut; HAAT: 1,210 ft)-—Sesk 
‘assignment of licenze from Forward Communications Corp. 
to Adams Communications Corp, for $126.5 million. Seller 
is Wausau, WLbased group of onc AM, one FM and five 
TV's principally owned by former Treasury Secratery 
William E. Simon and Raymond Chambers. Buyer is 
Minnespolis-hased group of four AM's, five FM's and four 
TV's principally owned by Stephen Adams, Filed Nov. 3, 


= KKBI-AM-FMBemidji, MN (AM: BAL371109EA; 1360 
khz: 5 kucD; 2.5 kw-N FM: DALHS7TIOSEB; 103.7 mb; 
100 kw; HAAT. 460 1.) Seeks assignment of license from 
Bemidji Radio Ine. ta CD Broadcasing Corp. for $1,300,000. 

Seller is owned by Justin Hoberg, who also owns KIKEM) 
Grand Forks, and КТҮНСАМ) Minor, bath Nonh Dako 

Buyer is owned by Cristopher Т. Dahl. И also owns 
KLGR-AM-FM Redwood Falls, KLIZAM-FM Brainerd 
and KXRAAM-FM Alexandria, all Minnesota. Filed Nov 

3 


WOAP-AM/FM 


Owosso, Michigan 


Michigan Radio Group Ltd. Partnership 


from 


Owosso Broadcasting Company 


$750,000 


Chapman Associates is pleased to 
have assisted in this transaction. 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


= KLHO(FM) Thayer, MO (ВАРНВ71104НН; 99.3 mhz: 3 
kw)—Secks assignment of license from Thayer Community 
Radio Inc. to Meyer Gottesman for $3,000, Seller has no 
other broadcast imeresis. Buyer has no other broadcast 
interests. Filed Now. 4. 


=" KBVB(FM) Crete, NE (BALHS71IG4HI; 103.9 mhz; 3 
kw; HAAT: 225 h.)--Seeks assignment of license from 
Saline County Radio, Inc. to Star City Broadcasting, Inc. 
for $350,000. Seller is owned by Melville L. Gleason, who 
has no other broadcast interests. Buyer is principally owned 
by Roger Agnew, who also bas interest in new FM in 
Honolulu. Filed Nov. 4, 


а KTCR(AM) Wagoner, OK (BTC871103EB; 1530 khz: 1 
kw-D}—Seeks assignment of license from Telemonde 
Corp. ta Superior Intemational Communications Inc for 
$350,000. Seller is owned by Ellen Durfey, ber husband, 
‘Thomas, their children Kendall, Nelson and Grace. Buyer 
is owned by Jobn Cranston and family. Cranson is 
California-based real estate investor with no other broadcast 
interests. Filed Nov. 3. 


т WCRE(AM) Cheraw, SC (BALB7HOBEC; 1420 khz: 1 
kw-D} Secks assignment of license from Orr Broadcasting 
Inc. to De Hope Communications Inc. for $285,000. Seller 

‘owned by Michael Orr, who has no other broadcast 
interests. Buyer is owned by Albert William De Hope Ill 
giao has interest in WPCNAM) Mi. Pocono, FA. Filed 
Nov. 


= WCCT(TV) Columbia, SC (ch. 57:637 kw vis. 63.76 
aur; HAAT: 607 ft. Seeks assignment of license from 
‘Carolina Christian Broadcasting Inc. to FCV Communica- 
tions Inc. for $3.7 million. Seller is Greenville, SC-based 
‘group of four TV's owned by James H. Thompson. Buyer 
1s owned by Walter K. Flynn, former ABC executive, with 
по other broadcast interests. Filed New. 3. 


= WINZIFM) Clinton, TN (BALH87I0SHL; 95.3 mbz:3 
kwi HAAT: 674 f) Secks assignment of license from 
REBS Inc. to RYAD Lid. for $800,000. Seller is 
Nashvill-based group of four A M'S and Гош FM's, equally 
‘owned by Richard W. James and his wife, Earlene, Sieve 
Huner, David Coben, William Bresnan, John C. Roberis 
and David Layfield, Buyer is beaded by Herber Рой. 
who also owns W THZL FM) Tallahassee, FL. Filed Nov 5. 


$ WXIT(AM) Charleston, WV (BALS71103HD; 1490 khz: 
1 kw-U)—Seeks assignment of license from Kanawha 
Broadcasting Corp. to Empire Broadcasting System Ine, for 
3331 J50. Seller is beaded by Frank Blake. It has no other 
broadcast interests. Buyer is headed by Donald A. Cavaleri. 
It also owns KZKX(FM) Seward, NE, and is buying 
WVCM(FM) Miami, WY (see below), Filed Nov. 3. 


= WYCM(FM) Miami, WV—(BALH871103HE; 1073 
rahe; 50 kwh~Seeks assignment of license from Boone 
Broadcasting Co. 10 Empire Broadcasting System Inc. for 
about $1 milion, Seller is headed by Francis Blake. It also 
has interest in WWED(AM) Madison, WI. Buyer is beaded 
by Donald A. Cavaleri. Н also owns KZKX(FM) Seward, 
МЕ, and is buying WXII(AM) Charleston, WV (sec 
above). Filed Nov. 3 


Actions 


= KNTRIFM) Ontario, CA (BALH870821HF; 03.5 mhz; 3 
Kw; HAAT: 165 ft.) Granted assignment of license from 
Best Communications Inc. to Boulder Ridge Cable TV Inc. 
for $2.7 million, Seller is owned by Jack L. Siegal, who 
also owns KSRF(FM) Santa Monica, Calif. Buyer's owned 
by John Dean Hazen, who owns cable systems in Half 
Moon Bay and Ridgecrest, both California and Hickam Air 
Force Base, Honolulu, Action Nov, 4. 


е WOOD-AM:FM Grand Rapids MI (AM: BALS708280T 
1300 khz: 5 kw-U; FM: BALHS708286U; 105.7 mhz; 265 
kwi HAAT: 810 fl) Granted assignment of license from 
Grace Broadcasting to United Anisis Broadcast Properties 
for 518.550.000, Seller is owned by Harvey Grace, who 
now has no other broadcast interests. Staion was originally 
sold to Surrey Broadcasting last year for $19.25 million 
(Changing Hands,” Joly 28, 1986). but that deal fell 
through. Buyer is subsidiary of United Artists Communica 

tions, Denver-based, publicly owned motion picmre and 
television production company and cable MSO headed by 
Stewart Blair. CEO. It has no other broadcast interests. 

Action Nov, 


m WPHR(FM) Cleveland (BALH870923HL; 107.9 mhz; 
HAAT: 390 fi—Granted assignment of license from 
Beasley Broadcast Group to Ardman Broadcasting Corp. 
of Ohio for $4.7 million. Seller is Goldsboro, NC-based 
group of nine AM's and 12 FM's principally owned by 

icorge Beasley. Buyer is subsidiary of Ardman Broadcast- 
img Corp., Washington-based group of seven AM's and 


seven FM's principally owned by Myer Feldman, Adrienne 

Агын and Bruce Houston. Action Nov. 6. 

m WMIW(FM) Nanticoke, PA (BALHB70922HK; 92.1 
mhz; 860 w: HAAT: 552 ft.}—Granted assignment of 
license from Thunder Broadcasting Corp. io Frank & Maley 
Ine. for $750,000. Seller is owned by Francis Koscielski 
(Frank Staniey). It has no otter broadcast interests. Buyer 
is owned by Robert J. Maley and Joseph A. Frank, who 
also own WBAX(AM) Wilkes-Barre, PA. Action Nov. б. 


* ^ WESC.AM-FM Greenville, SC (AM: BTCR70923HR; 660 
FM: BTCHR70923HS; 92.5 mhz; 100 kw; 
HAAT: 2.000 fi.) Granted assignment of license from 
Broadcasting Со, Of the Carolinas Ю Flair Broadcasting Co, 
for SIS million. Seller is wholly owned by Robert Schmid, 
Chairman, who bas no other broadcast interests, Buyer it 
now New York-based company formed to acquire and 
‘operate radio stations and headed by John Boden, former 
president of Blair Radio, New York based radio rep fum. 
MESCAM-FM we company's fi acquisition. Actos 


я WFON(FM) Fond Du Lac, WI (BAL1i8709 14GP; 107.1 
mhz; 3 kw; HAAT: 312 ft.) Granted assignment of license 
from Costas Enterprises. Inc. к Independence Broadcasting 
of Wisconsin Corp. for $3.3 million, Seller is owned by 
Don Rabbit, who has no other broadcast interests. Buyer is 
principally owned by John Goodwin and Peter Sulick. It 
also owns KSAL(AM)-K YEZ(FM) Salina, KN, and KOEL- 
AM-FM Oelwine, ГА, Action Nov. 5. 


New Stations 


Applications 
AM 


© _ Holly Hill, FL(BP821104AA)—Thornas Н. Moffitt socks 
1180 khz: 7.3 kw-D; 250 w-N. Address: 304 Crane Cove, 
Longwood, FL 32750. Principal has no other broadcast 
imeresis, Filed Nov, 4 


FM's 
= Malvern, AR (BPHS71104MF)—Malvcm Broadcasting 
Co, sesks 93.3 mhz; 3 kw; HAAT: 35 m. Address: 1402 
Hoy 270 Noi. Matvem, AR 12104; Вінера is owned 
by Kenn L. Richardson and fami. wbo wo cwn 
'BOX(AM) Malvem. Filed Nov. 4 


в Malvern, AR (BPH871105MD)—Harbour Enterprises seeks 
93,3 mhz; 3 kw; HAAT: 97 m. Address: 317 S. Main St 

Malvem, AR 72104. Prinicpal is owned by Donald 
Harbour and family, who have во other broadcast interests. 


= Farmington, ILCBPHB71104ME)—Farmingion Broadcast- 
ing Co. seeks 85.7 mhz; 3 kw: HAAT: 100 m. Address: 

West Moss, Peoria, IL 61604. Principal is owned by 
Phyllis O. Markley, who has no other broadcast interesis. 
Filed Nov. 4. 


a Manhattan, KS(BPH871103MA)—Kansas Broadcast Asso- 
claies sccks 104.7 mhz; 50 kw; HAAT: 150 m. Address: 
548 Grant Ave, Lot #24, Junction City, KS 66441. Principal 
is owned Gevin C. Kidd, who has no otber broadcast 
interests. Filed Nov. 3. 


m Manhattan, KS(BPH871I02MB)—Litle Apple Broadcast- 
ing seeks 104,7 mhz; 50 kw; HAAT: 150 m. Address: РО. 
Box 1534, Emporia, KS 66801. Principal is owned Mike 
Law, who has no other broadcast interests. Filed Nov. 3. 


a Farmington, NM (BPHB71104M[}—Voice Ministries of 
Farmington secks 95.7 mhz; 100 kw; HAAT: 120 m. 
Address: Star Rie 5. Box 42, Gallup, NM 86513. Principal 
is -my Frank Lucero and his wife, Cleone, and Fareed 

his wife, Annene, lt has no other broadcast 
interesis, Filed Now, 4. 


= Middle Island, NY (BPED87 1102MF}— Longwood Central 
School District seeks 88.3 mhz; 250 w; HAAT: 34 m. 

‘Address: Yaphank Rd., Middle Island, NY 11953, Principal 

is educational institution headed by Barbara Weiss, 

president. Filed Nov. 2. 


= Shadyside, OH (BPH87LI03MC) Shadyside Wireless 
secks 95.7 mhz; 3 kw; HAAT: minus 42 m, Address: 4433 
Wells Pkwy., University Park, MD 20782. Principal is 
‘owned by Arthur V. Belediuk, who bas no oiher broadcast 
interests. Filed Nov 3. 


= Shadyside, OH (BPHS71104MH)— Getz Broadcasting Ine. 
seeks 95.7 mhz; 3 kw; HAAT: minus 42 m. Address: 4301 
SW 35th Terrace, Topeka, KS 66614. Principal is owned 
by Gerald A. Geiz, who has no other broadcast interests- 
Filed Now. 3. 


= Delia, UT(BPHB71105MI)—TGWM lnc, seeks95.7 mhz; 
100 kw: HAAT: 2 m. Address: 781 North Valley View 
Dr., #34, St. George, UT 84770. Principat is owned by Glen 
3. Gardoer, Orval Wright, Rex L. Jackson and Jobn L. 
Mites. 


Ws 


"o Fanama City, FL (ВРСТЕ? 103) The Rock of Panama. 
City Ine. seeks ch. 62; 2,000 kw vis,, 200 kw auri HAAT: 
219 m. Principal is owned by F, Nolan Ball, who has no 
other broadcast interests, Filed Nov. 2. 


m Joliet, П. (ВРСТЕ? 102KE)—Jolier Television Station LP 
seeks facilities of WGBO-TV (BROADCASTING, Nov. 
16). Address: 35 E Wacker Dr., Suite 1356, Chicago, 
60601. Prinicpal is owned by Terry Dolan, who has no other 
broadcast interests, Filed Nov. 10. 

Actions 

AM's 


"Висла inu GA (BP8705 ВАР Returedapp ofRuben 
Burton for B9 khz. Address: 613 5 Lagrange Rd., 
Lagrange. IL 60525. Principal has по other broadcast 
interests. Action Nov. б. 


а Lithia Springs, GA (BP850329AF)—Granted арр. of 
Georgia Broadcasters for K30 khz; 50 kw-D; | kw-N. 
Address: 4610 Brainwood Dr., Sacramento, CA 95821 
Frincipal is headed by James E. Auel. who ано has ners 
in KEWQ(AM) Paradise; KGBA-FM Holtville; KKMC(AI 
Gonzales; KPRZ(AM) San Marcos, all California; 
WCHP(AM) Champlain, NY. and WGNZ(AM) Titusville, 
FL. Action Nov. 5. 


m Rocky Mount, NC(BP860724AC)—Granted app, of Rocky 


Mount Radio for 13) Kaz. Address 89 E Нили St, La 
Grange, IL 60525. Principal is owned by Karen M. Car, 
who Fas no other broadcast interests. Action Nov 6. 


= Roxbury, NY (BPSJGIOSAI) Granted app. of Harvest 
Broadcasting for 1400 hz; | kw Address: РО. Box 105, 
Hinsdale, NH 0345| , Principal is owned by Brian Dodge, 
‘who has interest in KTU-EM Alva, OK. Action Nov. 3. 
киз 

13е Cty IACBPHB6D319MU)_Gracedapp of Sac Radio 
General Partnership for 105.1 т; 3 kw; HAAT: 220 m 
Adis. 285 Dun Rd., East Nonipot, NY 11731 
Principal is owned by Robert М. Reed, who has ro other 
broadcast ieterests. Action Nox. б. 

= Sweet Home, Ore. (861208MM)}—Returned app. of Nan- 
eue Markunas for 107.1 mhz: 3 kw: HAAT: 328 ft. Address: 
РО. Box 2576, Montauk, NY 11954, Principal аз no other 
broadcast interesis. Actin Oct. 22. 


Allocations 
m Merdianville, AL—Effective December 28, amended 
the FM Table by allotting Channel 231A (94-1 mhz) to 
Meridian ville as ts Fist local абса! service. The fing 
Summary of broadcasting 
as of Sept. 30, 1987 
Оп Ai CP's Total" 
ams по зова 
p" 
Educational FM 123 I 145% 
ual Radio 10175 761 10926 
FM translators vnb 266 1801 
Commercial VHF TV эз 2 ж 
Commercial UHF ТУ 4 222 c 
ucational VHE TV "s 3 on 
Educational UHF TY 203 2 228 
лушту 1208 оз ai 
wr erv мом зи 
Une LTV 162 1968 2% 
Taal LeTV ae 20 өз 
VHF алов эз мв aue 
UH ransatos xe эз 2201 
ms ж м з 
Low-power auctary зз o вм 
ТУ auxiliaries 7.490 205 765 
UHF varskrodtoostrs 6 0 6 
Experimea TV EG 
Remote pickup 18000 50 cese 
AuralSTL аюуну 2308 166 3002 
“includes of i licenses. 
Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


78 


window opens December 29 and closes January 28. (MM. 
Docket 86-376 bv R&O [DA 87-1624] adopted October 30 
by the Chief, Allocations Branch, Mass Media Bureau) 


э „Дре hon, AZ--N request of Beta Comma 
tions, Inc proposed subita Channel 256C2 (013 
mh) for Channel 296A and modifying the licens et ST 
10 operate on the С? channel. Comments due J: 

reps Janay 32. (ММ Duce 8306 by NPRM [DA 
371634] adopted October 30 by the Chief. Allocations 
Branch, Mass Media Bureau). 


m Window Rock, AZ— Effective December 28, amended tbe 
FM Table by alletiing Channel 241C (96.1 mhz) to Window 
Rock as its second local FM service. The filing window 
opens December 29 and closes January 28. (MM Docket 
3647 by R&O [DA 87-1623] adopted October 30 by the 
Chief, Allocations Branch). 

= Big BearCity, CA— Effective December 28, amended the 
FM Table by allotting Channel 227A (93.3 mhz) to Big 
Bear City as its first local broadcast service. The filing 
‘window opens December 29 and closes Janvary 28. (MM 
Docker 86331 by RAO [DA 87. 166] adopted October 30 
by the Chief, Allocations Branch). 

9. Sacramento, CA— Effective December 28, amended the 
TV Table by allotting Channel #52 to Sacramento as its 
second noncommercial educational TV service. (MM 
Docket 86-246 by R&O [DA 87-1625] adopted October 30 
by the Chief, Allocations Branch), 


* „Мешыйп Home, IDA! request of Mountain, Heme 
Broadcasting. proposed substituting Channel 256C (99.1 
mhe) for Channel 257A (99.3 mhz), and modifying the 
есте of ICY pel de ney chanel, Comers де 
replies January 22. (MM Docket 87-507 by 
NPRM IDA Bio] рей Otter 90 by Ve Chet 
Allocations Branch). 
Ida Grove, IA—At request of Buena Vista College, 
ed substituting Channel 225C2 (92.9 mbi) for 
mel 224A (92.7 mhz) and modifying the license cf 
KIDA(FM) to operate on the higher class channel. 
Comrens due January 7, replies Janay 22. (MM Docket 


SOE by NPRM IDA #71687] adopted October 30 by te 
Chief, Allocations Branch). pi 
* Lisbon, NH—Atrequest o Montpeljer Broadcasting, Ic. 


proposed ‘soning Channel 24A (5.7 mhz) fo рее 
it Tirs toca EM service, Comments due January 7, estes 
January 22. (MM Docket 87.509 by NPRM [DA #71636] 


adopted October 30 by the Chief, Allocations Branch). 


Roswell, NM—Effective December 31, FM Channel 
*258A (99.5 mhz) to Roswell for noncommercial educa- 
tional usc. (MM Docket 87-194 by RO [DA 87-1640] 
adopted October 30 by the Chief, Allocations Branch), 


© Canton, NY—A: request of Craig L, Fox, proposed 
allotting Channel 268A (101.5 mhz) to Canton аз its second 
Ба Pe service. Comments doe Jua 1 reple funny 
22. (MM Docket 87510 by NPRM [DA 87-1635] adopted 
‘Ociober 30 by the Chief, Allocations Branch). 


= Banks, OR—Fifective December 28, amended the FM 
Table by alioning Channel 298A (107.5 mhz) to Banks as 
йв first local FM service. The filing window opens 
December 29 and closes January 28. (MM Docket 87-188 
љу R&O [DA 87-1616] adopted Ociober 30 by tbe Chief, 
Allocations Branch). 

m Columbia, SC—Etfective December 31, aliotied TV 
Channel 47 16 Columbia as its fifth loca] commercial TV 
service. (MM Docket 87-125 by RAO |DA 87-1639] 
adopted October 30 by the Chief, Allocations Branch). 


m Olympia, WA—Elfective December 23, amended the TV 
‘Table by allotting Channel 67 to Olympi аз e rt 
commercial TV service. (MM Docket 87-79 by RAO [DA 


37-1627] adopted October 30 by the Chief, Allocations 
Branch), 


Facilities Changes 


Applications 


* Escanaba, MI, WCHT. 600kh2—87 103-Applicaion for 
CP to change city of license to Gladesione, MI; change freq 
te 150 khi reduce pwr to 400 чаш; change TL o d km 
N of Hwy 414 an Co Hwy 527, 4 km SE of Village of Fiat 
Rock» Dela Co foul oí Wei and make changer in 
antenna system. 45 48 21N 87 08 20W 


Actions 


= Minncapolis, MN, KTIS, 900 khz—871106 Application 
(BP87033 CP) returned for CP to increase day power to 
SO кө: ad night service with 0.3 kws тый DAA change 
TL to East side of Century Ave., 0.15 mi S of imersection 
of Larpentcur Ave, and Ñ of Chicago and Nonhwester 
Railroad, Oakdale, MN amd make changes im antenna 
system. 


a 51. Marys, WV, WV V, 630 khz—871106-Application 
(BP870327 AM) granted for CP to increase power to 1 kw. 


FM's 
= Montgomery, AL. WLWI-FM, 92.3 mhz—871109. 
Application (BPH870227MZ) granted for CP to change TL: 
24KM N of intersection of Burbank Dre & Rte 80, 
Montgomery, AL; change HAAT: 334 m. H&V & make 
changes in antenna system. 32 24 1 


= Grover City. CA. KOSZ, 107.1 mhz—871109-Application 
(BPHE703301L) granted for CP to make changes: FREQ: 

107,3 MHZ (Per Docket #85-221); change ERP: 4.2 kw 
H&V; change HAAT: SOFT. Нау. 

m Los Altos, CA, KLZE, 97.7 mbz—871108-Application 
(BPHBTIOOZIC) granted for CP to make changes: TL: 

Rural, 3.7KM SW of Monta Vista, CA, on hil above 
cement plant; change ERP: 1.6 kw H&V: change HAAT: 

137 m. HÆV. 37 18 27N 122 05 36W 


= New Orleans, WQUE-FM, 93.3 mhz—871109-Application 
(BPHE702131A) granted for CP 10 make changes TL 4 
Cooper ка. Gretna, LA; change HAAT: 305 m. H&V. 29 
SA TAN 0 0 22W 


m New Orleans, WAJY, 101.9 mhz—871105-Application 

(BPHEAOZISIK) granted for СР to make changes: TL 4 
oper Rd, Gretna, LA: change ERP. 97.4 kw HEV 

change HAAT: 305 m. H&V. 29°54 24N 90 02 22W 


m New Orleans, WYLD-FM,98 5 mhz 871109 Application 
(BPH870227MN) granted for CP to change TL: Near Greina 
City, 4 Cooper Rd, 1.6KM S of inersec. of US Rie 90 & 
State Rue 428, adjacent of WWL-TV Tower, Gretna, LA; 
‘change HAAT: 304.9 m. H&V 4 make changes on antenna 
system. 29 54 24N 90 02 22W 


Services 


® Billings. MT Granted Echonet Corporation а СР fora WRAZ 
ТУ gation on Сапе] 20 a; Billings. (ММ Docket 87-187 
y Summary 


extraordinary relief. (MM Docket 85-60 by МОО [FCC кыд 


Actions 
CCW-V KNMI Мамеа Cal Lotars, ine, Walker, 
мч 

® Tolleson, AZ —Granted applicationof Aztec Broadcasting 
Corp. for a new TV station at Tolleson; denied nine 
competing applications. (MM Docket 85-182 by ID (РСС Grants 
87D-40] issued November 10 by ALI Edward Luton). E m 

a Sought by 
® Leland, MI. —Granted Pyramid Communications, Lid. a 
СР for an FM statión on Channel 232A (94 3 MHz) at New AM's 
Leland, (MM Docket 87.165 by Summary Decision [FCC any Broaccasters. Delmar. NY 
poa ne Nowe ¢ oy Chet ALT Temes B АО ty ones Dena, Ny 

а) WNOT Denville Radio, Danville, VA 


Rado Eleven Siny. Fieldaie, va 


ion [FCC 870-411 issued November 6 


by Chief ALJ Thomas В. Fitzpatrick) New FM's 
* Tequesta, А. Саме Tequesta Television. Ine. sevendays “DHM Dennis Harold Mitchell, Hokie, AR 
from the release date of this erder to file documentation KIPAFM Big мела Bog Co. Lid, Hio. HI 
necessary for considers- tion of Tequesia’s request for WAV Linda Crook. Quincy: IL 


Hiawatha Ed Beg "ndr, Hiawathe, KS 


872-60] adopted November 6 by the Review Board) EDM Board of Trustees of Vicwgan Sue 
inv. East Lansing. M 
wau James Verkest, Norway, MI 
Call Letters KOKS Calvary Educational Beg Network, Poplar 
Blut uo 
S WRC! Rumford Communications. Ine, Hillsboro, 
Applications нч 
wew Pioneer Jojn Vocations! Schoo! Dist 
Willard, OF 
кэм Sulphur Ed Dog Fndm Зира, OK 
WGRG San ard Ligi Мела Mises, inc 


Lewisburg, PA 


Existing AM 


WKOS WWNH Salmanson Communications, Ie 
Rochester, NH 


FCC ON-LINE DATABASE 


dataworld’ 


AN e FY е туару е TES. 
482) Rugoy Ave Sule 200 
за MO хама 
1900 3685794 


301) 652.3822. 


Existing FM's 

WLMO МАЈУ Loyola University. New Orleans, LA 

жос WCAL-EM CBS, Ine, Philadelphia, PA 
WKYLEN Wood Вс. Inc 


BROADCAST DATA SERVICES. 
Computer zed Broadcas! Service 
Including 
Data Base/Allocation Studies 
Terran Profiles 
Are af safer Larson А Johnson. ac 
703 824.5666 


RAMTROAIX, INC. 
Connector Supplier 
tothe Broadcast industry 
Kings/{TT Cannon 
67 етуп Blvd. E. 
Deer Park, N.Y. 11729 
516) 242-4700 


UNUSED 


CALL LETTERS 
CALL 


(sis world 


1-800—368-5754 


@Teletech inc. 


BACADCAST CONSULTANTS ANO ENGINEERS 


MAILING LABELS 


AM, FM & TV 
CALL 


dataworld 


1-800—368-5754 


Sommerer One TNE 
+ Radio and Television Syster Design 


$ Microwave and Salaire 
Engineering and Istataten. 
12 Nonn Willow St 


2017465807 Montel. NJ 07622 


VOICE OVER, INC. 
VR tote S VIE Gto 


[i 
SAVE з, TIME, CONTACT L 
801) 272-3 ты 


EIL 


FIGHTING FOR 
YOUR LIFE 


SOFTWARE 


FN Database, тобет upostes Бу 8D $. 
MSDOS 


American 
Heart 
Association 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1967 
an 


Professional Cards 


A.D. RING & ASSOCIATES, Р.С. 


CONSULTING RADIO ENGINEERS 
Suite 500 
1140 Nineteenth St. N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 26036 
(202) 223-6700 
Member AFCCE 


CONOUTING номите. 
узо уаямыкэоо COUNT 
ЕРАМ А dans 

as0 e 
MEMBER AICCE 


LOHNES & CULVER 
Consuting Radio-TV Engineer 
1186 15th. St. , N.W. , Suite 606 

Washington , D.C. 20005 
(202) 296-2722 


Mindu AFCCE. 


COHEN and DIPPELL, PC. 
CONSULTING ENGINEERS 
1018 18th St. ил 


.. Suite 703 
1202) 783-0111 


washington, о.С. 20005 
Member APUCE 


SILLIMAN AND SILLIMAN 


Moffet, Larson & Johnson, Inc. 


ANDRUS АМО ASSOCIATES, INC. 


HAMMETT & EDISON, INC. 


444-7010 
Kansas City, Missouri 64114 


Wacnington DC 20036 


“Serving the Beoudeust (тфу 
"Jur mee 30 Year 


Box 2727 Bath, Ohio 44210 
(216) 659-4440 


8121 Georgia Ave. #700 Consulting Telecormmmunications Engineers ALVIN H. ANDRUS. P.E 
Siver Spring, MD 20910 Two Skyline Piace, Suite 800 LAGE QVE CONSULTING ENGINEERS 
ROBERTM SILLIMAN. "к. 5203 Leesburg Pike SILVER SPANG, мо 20904 вох 68, International Airport 
(ini wirst Fails Church, VÀ 22041 30! 3845374 San Francisco, California, 94128 
THOMAS ж. БИМАН РЕ: 703 824-5680 At Heat (415) 3425200 
Member АСС Member AFCCE. 2 Member AFCCE 
JULES COHEN CARL E. SMITH VIR JAMES 
JOHN W;NEFFELFINGER CONSULTING ENGINEERS CONSULTING ENGINE: 
& ASSOCIATES, PC. AMIWON EGE сам ман. аре! сал ол and Fela Eneineanng 
9233 Wird Parkway, Suite 285 М. Pa Compete Tower and Rigging Servicos  rvnpulenred Frequency Surveys 


3137 W, Kentucky Ате. 80219 
1303) 937-1900 


DENVER, COLORADO 
Member АЕССЕ & NAB 


E. Harold Munn, ur. 
& Associates, Inc. 
Broaócasi Engineering Consutams 
Box 220 
Coldwater, Michigan 49038 
Phone: 517—278-7339 


ROSNER TELEVISION 
SYSTEMS 


CONSULTING & ENGINEERING 


250 West 57 Street 
New York, N.Y. 10107 
1212) 246.2850 


Mullaney Engineering, Inc. 
Canali communion Eanes 
9049 Shady Grove Court 
Gaithersburg, MO 20877 

301-921-0115 
Member AFCCE 


HATFIELD & DAWSON 
Consulting Engineers 
Broadcast and Communications 
4226 6th Ave, NW, 
Seattle, Washington. 98107 


(206) 783.9151 
‘Member AFCCE 


ENTERPRISE ENGINEERING PC. 
Consulting Engineers 


FW HANNEL, PE 
PO Bor 9001 Peona. IL 61614 
(308) 691.4155 


Member AFCCE 


D.C. WILLIAMS 
& ASSOCIATES. INC. 


FOLSOM, CALIFORNIA 
(916) 933-5000 


95630 


STRUCTURAL SYSTEMS 
TECHNOLOGY. INC. 


C. P. CROSSNO & ASSOCIATES 


JOHN ЕХ. BROWNE 
& ASSOCIATES, РС. 


MATTHEW VLISSIDES: RE. Consuning Engineers 
PRESIDENT. id 525 Woodward Ave, 
TONERS, ANTENNAS. STRUCTURES P.O. Box 18312 Bloomfield Hils, MI 48013 
sue, Man Davies Mee es, Dalias, Texas 75218 (313) 642-6226 
[o ction ie (214) 669-0094 anan Ofce 
Member AFCCE Member AFCCE 
ADVANCED BROADCAST 
R.L. HOOVER peters reti ar 
Consul Telecommaneatons Engineer (CommunieaTions TECHNOLOGIES, Ie. 
11704 Seven Locks Road [enl BROADCAST номи нис CONSULTANTS 
Polomac, Maryland 20854 FIELD SERVICES. pass 
peg on RESTORE "шше" 
Member AFCCE BERUK, NEW JERBEY, атат 


Wa 


SELLMEYER ENGINEERING 
Consulting Engineers. 


PAUL DEAN FORD. PE. 
[BROADCAST ENGINEERING CONSULTANT 


WILLOUGHBY & VOSS 


BROADCAST TECHNICAL CONSULTANTS 


LAWRENCE L. MORTON, P.E. P.0. Box 205 R.R. 12, Box 351 БИ 
Аы eT eT McKinney, Texas 75069 WEST TERRE HAUTE, INDIANA 47885} MON NATE 
конон FELD нген (aia) 542-2058 peels SANTO TES жаза 
(714) 859-6015 Member AFCCE Mache АСЕ ka] Eure ed 
COURTRIGHT George Jacobs 0.8. COMMUNICATIONS, INC. 
ENGINEERING, INC. & Associates, Inc. BroadcasvRCC/Cetulaveatalite 


ELECTRICAL AND BROADCAST 


Member AFCE” 


(602) 997-5212 


Consulting Broadcast Engineers 
Domestic & International 
Mam ber AFCCE 


8701 Georgia Ave. 
"Sive Sorne. MD 
20910 


Suite 410 
(зот) 587-8800 


delcommunicalions Coneutanis 


4401 East West Highway. Эште 308 
Bethesda, Maryland 208 14 
(Located ın Washingion. DC Area) 

301) 654.0797 
contac! Darrel Е Bauguess 


Injormatons 


F3 
/ 


m 


Panamsat bemoans competitive position vis a vis Intelsat 


Company report seeks more 
‘competitive’ pricing for Intelsat's 
planned domestic services 


Pan American Satellite Corp., the only 
American company thus far authorized 
to provide a separate communications 
satellite service in competition with the 
International Telecommunications Sat- 
ellite Organization, has been stymied in 
providing that service. And it blames 
what it says is Intelsat’s predatory pric- 
ing for planned domestic services (PDS). 

Last week, PAS released a report de- 
signed to rally American users of the in- 
ternational system behind an cffort to 
urge the U.S. to seck what PAS says 
would be more competitive prices for 
Intelsat's PDS. It says the Intelsat sys- 
tem is loaded with excess capacity, and 
prices capacity for PDS far below cost. 
As long as that situation remains, the 
report says, U.S. consumers of monopo- 
ly service—including broadcasters- 
— will bear unnecessary cost burdens, 

Intelsat's potential competitors, like 
PAS, are also said to be at risk. Indeed, a 
PAS representative who had conferred 
with potential customers in Latin Ameri- 
ca said last week that the prices Intelsat 
charges for transponders used by coun- 
tries for domestic service are less than 
those PAS can charge for the transpon- 
ders jt would provide—‘considerably 
less." The representative said Intelsat 
already has an advantage in the "long 
term relationship" it has had with the 
government offices operating the tele- 
communications industries in thcir re- 
spective countries. 

Following a long and bruising U.S.- 
Intelsat consultation process, Intelsat 
last April concluded that the PAS sys- 
tem would be technically compatible 
with the global system and would not 
cause it undue economic harm. And 
PAS was authorized by the FCC to pro- 
vide international service between the 
U.S. and Peru. But PAS also hoped to 
provide domestic service in Latin Amer- 
ica. Providing it is, as the PAS repre- 
sentative indicated, a problem. Another 
PAS spokesman last week said, “If In- 
telsat_can take away domestic service 
from Panamsat, it will take away Panam- 
sat. So Panamsat has а lot at stake.” 

“What we hope to do," the represent- 
ative said of the PDS matter, “‘is to get 
this thing out in the open, to show that 
this is more than a Panamsat issue. 
to show that this [the Intelsat pri 
policy] has an effect on what television 
pays for video services on Intelsat.” 
Nor is the problem limited to broadcast- 
ers. It would apply to all users of Intel- 
sats monopoly services. And the U.S. i 
the largest user of Intelsat services. 


“This should be a matter of wider con- 
cern,” the representative said. 

A major element in the effort to make 
“this...a matter of wider concern" was 
PAS's release to reporters last Tuesday 
of an executive summary of an economic 
analysis of proposals by both Intelsat 
and the Communications Satellite Corp. 
for pricing PDS. The summary backs 
PAS's contention that Intelsat’s PDS 
prices are not cost-justified. The report, 
Scheduled for release three: days later, 
had been prepared by an economic con- 
sulting firm, Economists Inc., which is 
headed by Dr. Bruce Owen. Onc of the 
guidelines governing the briefing that ac- 
companied the release was that the brief- 
ers not be identified by name. 

Another element in the effort is the 
petition PAS filed with the FCC on Nov. 
5 asking it to request comment on PDS 
pricing methodology “то allow interest- 
ed parties to participate in the develop- 
ment of the U.S. government's posi- 
tion" on thc issuc. The Intelsat Board of 
Governors is scheduled to consider the 
matter at its quarterly meeting beginning 
on Dec. 10. But PAS, in its Nov. 5 
said that because of “the comple: 
the issues involved," the government 
should seek a deferral of the pricing is- 
sue, to allow additional time in which to 
evaluate comments and develop a U.S. 
position. 

El examined the proposals for pricing 
PDS that were filed both by Intelsat and 
Comsat at the last Board of Governors 
meeting after they were made available 
in responsc to a PAS request. Comsat, 
the U.S. signatory to Intelsat, has ex- 

ressed the U.S. policy insisting on cost- 

ased pricing at Intelsat meetings. How- 
ever, PAS representatives said that al- 
though Comsat's proposals were not as 
low as Intelsat's, they were less than 
what cost-based pricing would require. 
The El report says neither set of propos- 
als is supported “by economic efficien- 
cy arguments" and that, in particular, 
“no empirical basis is provided for 
charging lower prices to PDS users than 
to international users." 

The report refers to what the authors 
describe as ‘very serious costing prob- 
lems with the proposals." It says both 
Intelsat and Comsat "ignore millions of 
dollars in costs, with the result that 
prices will be below cost for domesti: 
Services." And because the system 
costs must be recovered from someone, 
the report adds, “it appears that Intelsat 
will price above costs for monopoly 
services." The report cites what the au- 
thors consider three major defects in the 
pricing methodology employed by Intel- 
sat and Comsat. 

(1) PDS prices reflect costs based on 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


demand forecasts that may be unrealisti- 
cally high. According to demand fore- 
casis developed by the United King- 
dom, costs per transponder are 46% 
higher than the investment costs esti- 
mated by Comsat. (2) Intelsat and Com. 
sat fail to take into account interest in- 
curred during construction of satellites. 
The consequence is to make PDS prices 
too low by up to 136%. (3) And the PDS 
pricing proposals are based on cost aver- 
ages that ignore cost differences among 
different types of transponders, such as 
power and Bandwidth. As a result, some 
PDS transponders will be priced 37% be- 
low the claimed costs. 

“The fundamental problem here is 
that Intelsat has imprudently built and 
then launched unnceded capacity,” the 
report says. “Even with arguably preda- 
tory prices for PDS, only 48% capacity 
utilization for the entire Intelsat system 
is expected by 1993.” And of the global 
system's planned capacity in that year, 
70% is yet to be launched, “including 
three satellites which have yet to be de- 
signed or built.” 

he report says “a significant part of 
the burden" of the excess capacity "'ulti- 
mately falls on the U.S. rate payers who 
must use Intelsat's monopoly services.” 
‘As an example, the report cites the re- 
sidual investment to be recovered from 
other customers of C-band hemi 72-mhz 
transponders. It says the cost will ex- 
ceed the PDS prices that Comsat pro- 
posed for those transponders "by more 
than three to one.” 

The PAS representatives did not ex- 
plicitly charge that Intelsat is continuing 
to build excess capacity into its system 
so that it could charge the lower rates for 
PDS that would serve as a barrier to 
would-be competitors. Indeed, the EI 
report says Intelsat has provided and 
planned for PDS since at least 1979, long 
before competitive services were on the 
horizon. But it also says PDS is now 
“very important to Intelsat and U.S. 
ratepayers.” A United Kingdom analy- 
sis shows that PDS will account for 39% 
of Intelsat’s 1993 demand and that PDS 
use will actually exceed demand for con- 
ventional international service in that 
year. 

Intelsat officials have attributed the 
system's excess capacity to members’ 
overly ambitious estimates of need. At 
present, Intelsat is preparing for 
launches of five Intelsat VI satellites and 
is looking ahead to launches of a series 
of at least five Intelsat VII satellites in 
the 1990's. A Panamsat representative 
said that, "without doubt," some of the 
Intelsat VI series of satellites are need- 
ed-but not all. And now, he said, “we 
have a fresh opportunity" to consider 
the need for the Intelsat VII satellites. 


Classified Advertising 


See last page of Classiliad Section for rates. 
closing dates, box numbers ard other delails. 


RADIO 


HELP WANTED MANAGEMENT 


Seles manager for a top-raied Calilorria FM. | need 
someone who knows local and regional sales inside ou. 
Someone who магів to make lots of money, your be: 
born teader. Interested? Send resume. Box A27. 


Established radio-group operator seeks successful, 
bottom-line oriented general manager with lap 25 marker 
experience as GM and proven experience in Ducget man- 
agement, expense control. sales. апо programing. Will 
manage AM/FM in Miowasi top 15 market and supervise 
two АМ/ЕМ top 25 market stations. History o! stable, long- 
erm employment a must. Submit a letter giving complete 
career and salary history and current references. Re- 
{poneo wil be kapt sic confidential, Write 10 Box A- 


President: undertake financial analysis; research, negoti 
ale and purchase radio stations, broadcast rights, satellite 
space and access o new technology such as down beam 
‘equipment. Oversee development of news & music pro- 
graming, format selection & identification packaging for 
Hispanic audiences. Develop radio networking lor news 
broadcasts: negoliale sales Ё licensee agreements, su- 
pervise stall: manage company. Bachelors degree in bus 
ness admin. 3 yisfexp. doing above. or 3 yrsiexp. as presi- 
dentigenerai manager Going above (except no prior satel- 
ме experience required), Ми! be tuent in Spanish & 
English. 40 hrs/wk (Sam-Som] $40.000. Apply at the 
Texas Employment Commission, Dallas, Texas, or send 
tecum to the Texas Employment Commission, TEC Build- 
ing, Austin, TX 78778. LO. # 4640842. Ad paid by an 
‘equal employment opportunity employer. 

Enthuslastic radio station employer seeks à general 
managedengineer for а бкн 18 hour public local access 
epealerrado station in rural Alaska. Applicant must; have 
a working knowledge of public radio station financing: 
must have radio station management experience; should 
have engineering experience but no! required: Duties in- 
‘clude: development of budgets for board approval, all 
aspecis o! station management including: а. volun 
cruitment and training: b. fund raising; c. program produc- 
"ion. d. announcing; perform routine emergency and stu- 
Фо maintenance. Manager reports to an eleven member 
board of directors. Salary. $30,000.00 plus 2 br. apanment 
provided on studio site. Starting date: December 19, 1987 
ог as soon as possible after hire. Contact and or mail 
resume to: Hany E. Purdy, President, Big River Public 
Broadcasting Corporation. Р.О. Bo» 165, Galena, AK 
99741, 207-656-1488. Resumes will be accepted until 
November 20, 1687 or until position is filled. 


Publie radio genera manager: oux Су V KWT FIA 
licensed o Westem lona Tech Community College, is 
seeking a general manager to direct в lullime stafi ol 
seven оп a 24-hour program schedule. Responsible lor all 
manágement and budget functions: coordinates FCC, 
СРВ, and NPR relations; extensive fund-raising activities, 
including on-air, corporate. and advertisingiental 
соте; considerable involvement with volunteers and li 
сепабе activites; some orrair work Position requires 
strong management, orgenizational end people skills ap- 
preciation lor classical music and the broad mission ol 
public radio, commitment to audience building, lundrais- 
ing. promotion and public relations. Minimum require- 
ments include five yeers' broadcasting management er- 
perience. preferably in public radio; а! least a BA degree, 
ог any equivalent combination of experience and educa- 
tion which provides the required knowledges, skills and 
abilities. Salary of 530,784 with full benefits. Deadline for 
applications is 12/11/87. Send letter and resume with three 
references and a briet audition tape to Con Kingery, Direc- 
tort Personnel, Westem lowa Tech Community College, 
Box 265, Sioux City, IA 51102. EOE/AA M- 


| manager wanted: Wo' 
market and need strong sales oriented, responsible 
manager. Great opportunity to join young, growth oriented 
radio corporation. We're honest, real and looking for lile 
long constituents; Must bo willing locate in Tennessee, 


Program manager: Л К Radio has е career opportunity 
fora postive ind vidual to direc! our program, news. and 
Promotions managers. Minimum 7 years cumulative erpe- 
Mence in radio ard exceptional organizational. manageri- 
а, and business skills required, No phone cells please. 

‘Send resume with salary requirements 1o: John Dziuba 
General Manager, Press Broadcasting Campany, 605 
‘Mattison Avenue, Asbury Park, NJ 07712. EOE 


North Florida small market FM located 
nergetic. proven sales ability. able lo 
hire, train, motivate. Resume, relerences. salary history. 
бап, 904—534-2373, P.O, Box 821, Per- 


‘Station manager for WNCW, a new public radio station, 
al isothermal Community College. Qualifications include a. 
Bachelor degree in communications (master’s preferred) 
and a minimum three continuous Years in an administra- 

adio positon, The station manager will take 
ing a professional broadcast service that 
will become NPR affiliated and CPS qualified. Start-up 
date for WNCW is set for July, 1988. Starting date for the 
position is February 1. 1988. Май resume and three reler- 
nce letters by Novem ber 30, 1987 o: Mrs. Lujuanna Clay- 
ton, Isothermal Community College, Box 804, Spin- 
dale, NC 28180. Isothermal Community College is an 
equal opportunity. affrmalive action employer. 


Radio station general manager. Lindenwood Colleges 
seeking a generat manager Tar te 28,500 wa publie rada 
‘lation, KELC-FM. to begin after January 4, 1988, The 
general manager must have the leadership ability ю de- 
velop effective programing to increase listenership in the 
metropolitan St. Louis ares and work with various constitu- 
enzies to enhance the fundraising capability of the non- 
Commercial sation while continu ng a tradition of student 
operation аз a working laboratory for the Lindenwood Col 
lege Communications Depenment, Minimum require- 
meri include а master's degree and five years profos- 
sional broadcast experience wilh al east three years at he 
management level. The salary is competitive. A letter of 
application, a resume and a list ol Sreferences [including 
addresses and telephone numbers) should be sent to: Dr. 
Daniel N. Keck, Vice President for Academic Affeirs. Lin- 
denwood College. St. Charles. MO 63301. Applications 
Will be accepted through December 7. 1987. Lindenwood 
College в an 2firmative action/equal employment oppor- 
tunity employer. 

Southern Connecticut GM. Successful community sta- 
оп im attractive location socks well-rounded general 
manager. Reply in confidence to Box A-B6. EOE IWF. 


TSM for medium market in mid South. An excellent op- 
portunity with a leading combo and agrowing com pany. I 
you're an aggressive pro with a track record we'd like to 
hear from you. Reply confidentially to Box А-84. 


HELP WANTED SALES 


Gallfomia country FM needs new local sales blood! If you 
wouid Ike to work in а market ol тоге than 300,000 for a 
top-rated station hat billed more than 1.5 million last year, 
send a resume. Box A-26, 


Going nowhere? Fast growing group with big 100,000 
watt FM in Albuquerque. NM has need for wo experienced 
sales people to add о present staff. We're spending big 
bucks to be number one. College - 3 years outside experi- 
ence minimum requirements. Sand resume with tetter - ell 
ust Draw against Commission, perks, Getin on the ground 
loor, Confidentiality respected. E.E.O. Box А-ВВ. 


HELP WANTED ANNOUNCERS 


CHR morning host needed to deliver 10-34 for market 
leader. Resume to Box A-64. 


Weekend warrior wanted io handle DJinewsipraduction. 
Jain WLNG's lun guys. Sag Harbor. Long Island 516—725- 
2300. EOE. 


AM radio host. Seeking morning personality to host news! 
mlk юта in #1 A.D.. Мугу стр е salary end ber 

in exchange fr informative person wi distinguished 
style. it you're fresh and ready for challenge send tape to 
N. Weil, P.O, Box 551, WFAS-AM, White Plains, NY 10602. 
EDE. 


Plains state; small market. Experienced news-oriented 
broadcaster for morning show and commercial production 
оп full-service community AM/FM. You may now be in 
larger market but would prefer raising your family in small 
town, And you've probably held your current position for al 
leastihvee years. Community involvement and exceptional 
people skills a must. This is a permanent position with 
above. market salary lor right person. Resume, salary Nis- 
tory, aircheck and commercial audition to KVSV, Box 7, 
Beloit, KS 67420, 


Beautiful Napa Celitornla, 45 miles from San 
Francisco, seeking individual with ait ability er both adult 
Contemporary music show and hosting afternoon news 
block. Females are encouraged to apply. Cassette and 
resume te Tom Young, 1124 Foster Ad., Napa, CA 04568. 
707—252- 4440. 


HELP WANTED TECHNICAL 


Thiet engineer 07 top rated combo Southwest mea 
тата, Song experience with directional AM and Class 

FM tansmivers, studio and audio. Excellent salary. 
bénelis. Reply 10 Вох А-8З. 


KKLQ AM/FM (0109), San Diego, looking for hard-work- 
ing, energetic engineer. Strong RF background and con- 
temporary format experience needed. Resume & reter 
‘ences to: 8525 Gibbs Dr. #204, San Diego, CA 82111. 
Equal opportunity employer. 

HELP WANTED NEWS. 


"Afternoon news anchor wanted: 100.000 wall market 
leader seeks an experienced anchorireporter Song de- 
livery апо top notch writing skills а must Send tape and 
resume to Dan Robison, News Director, WCOS FM/AM, 
Вох 748 Columbia, SC 29202. EOE. 


Midwest Family Radio is looking for outstanding sales 
manager candidates for ls 18 station group. І you have а 
strong track record and want о grow in a group where 
people are its mast important asset, then we need to talk! 
ing complete resume, work experi- 
‘ence, and salary history to: Chuck Mefford, V.P. Sales, 
Midwest Family, 321 E. Laka St., Petoskey, MI 49770 


‘St. Louis radio station seeks experienced salesperson. 
Excellent potential with opportunity for advancement. 
Send resume in full confidence to Box A-68. 


Number one or two on your staff and ready for advance- 
men? Come grow with us in a top 100 coastal California 
‘market, И you believe your luture is unlimited, convince us 
with your resume and follow up. Our expanding chain 
offers unsurpassed opportunities for winners. Box A-78. 


‘Our sales managers are organized motivators propelled 
by entusiasm, creativity and intelligence into general 
managersh p positions in cur rapidly growing chain. Ifyou 
are convinced that systeme. planning and team effort ios- 
ter success and you desire an opportunity lo prove itwith a. 
Ке person stolt in coastal California. contact: Box A 78. 
i you're good enough lo work straight commission, con 
тай Americas best and hottest jingle company. 
1000-360-0033. 

Salespeople In New York. Baltimore. Miami markets 
make extra cash selling top radio stations for spors net- 
Work 5164227771. 

Sales manager. Growing market in North Central inci. 
Great cty for your family and your career, Excellent pay. 
benefits. Send resume to WZOE AM/FM, Вох 63, Prince- 
ton, IL 61356, EOE. 


Broadcast meteorologist: NY area's largest weather 
forecast company has immediate pening for experienced 
orecaster with strong on-air delivery. Rush audio cassette 
& resume to Р.О, Box 1122, Flushing, NY 11354. 


Managing editor. Wisconsin Public Radio seeks energet- 
ic reporterinewscaster with strong on-air presence, lead- 
ership and organizational skills to oversee Madison- 
based newscast team. Prepere/present newscasts/reports 
for broadcası statewide; assist in preparing materials for 
network newsbureau use: coordinale assignments with 
magazine unit, Bachelors degree preleirec. Requires pre- 
vious supervisory experience with prolessional-level sie: 
Issue-oriented news judgement: personable. conversa- 
tional del very; focused, fuid broadcast writing style; abi 
туло quickly analyze anc edit сору tor content and broad- 
саз! siyle. Salary: $23,000 annual rate. Application dead- 
line: December 16, 1987. Fo? required application, writeor 
call: Mary Mead, WHA Radio, 621 University Avenue, 
Madison, WI 53706. 608—263-2170. Equal opportunity 
employer. 

News director for SE N.Y, AM/FM, Experience and good 
delivery а must. No beginners, Reply Вох A82, 


HELP WANTED PROGRAMING 
PRODUCTION AND OTHERS 


Vice president: Programing and research Northeast 
Startup radio venture. Evaluate acquisitions, implement 
formats, advise system management. Requires strong re- 
search background and programing experience In many 
tornats and all-sized markets. Must have excellent indus- 
try reputation. Energy, abilly to listen and communicate, 
willingness to take risks. Resume 1с Bor A-50. Strictly 
confidential, 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


Radio programer, Must be creative, promotional minded 
and have al least 3 years experience. Excellent benefits 
with growing company in souttweslem West Virginia and 
eastern Kentucky. FOE. Reply to Box А-76. 


‘SITUATIONS WANTED MANAGEMENT 


Generel managerieales manager small market. Pres- 
ently AMIFM general manager. 19years experience: Look- 
ing for new challenge, Box 446, Seymour, TX 76330. 


Medium market general manager seeks new challenge, 
17 years radio, 10 years management. Great track record 
with profits, programina, sales and people. Under 40, fam- 
ily man, ready to relocate. Box A-77. 


‘GSM major CA market. looking for GM position. Radio 
pro who has done it all. Prefer Galil, Replies held in confi- 
dence. Box A-T5. 


"Available now-broadcast pro with 18 yrs. experience, 
‘seeking full charge management of small/madium market 
FMor combo inthe Rocky Mountain region. Strong experi- 
ence in all faceta of the business, Call Jack, 214—723- 


General manager: Experience in station tumarounds, 
Looking for new opportunity in top 100 market... preferably 
Southeast, Strong on sales. Programing. Station visibility. 
Dynamic people person. Calalyst for enthusiasm! Call 
Jack 305—465-2736. 


SITUATIONS WANTED SALES 


"Top 50 AM sales specialisti Looking for AM wih growth 
potential. Call Don 301—742-1345 


SITUATIONS WANTED ANNOUNCERS 


17 year Cincinnati on sir drive time veterani Back 
ground includes program management and drive time in 
Various formats including stereo country. AIC, rock and 
CHR. Available now, Please call Scotty Jackson (Jerry 
Anderson] 505—824-5515. 


Easy listening, memory music stations. 25 years experi- 
anos, deep pipe, final career move, Neil - 518—383- 
0239. 


immensely versatile and talented 04 with creative co- 
pywriting апо production skills seeks a progressive mar- 
kel format. I'm young, ambitious, highly experienced with 
vast amounts of untapped potential which can definitely 
anract listeners and revenue. Call Kevin after бот EST 
518—481-9004 


Ward-hitting conservative: Extremely controversial. At- 
tack "sacted-cows" where it hurts - 11 years experience 
major market, Box A-71 


SITUATIONS WANTED NEWS 


Reporter, biack male, medium market experience, col- 
lege grad, excellent writer and aggressive with a desire to 
enterprise. 1—313—241-9667_ 


Reporter/anchor а! small station seeks larger market. 
City нап. local news, and reporting experience es a string- 
er for national radio network(s}. Al | ask Is that you hear my 
airchock, Вох A-70. 


13 year veteran of news and sports sooks a crack al a 

тор 0 market station. Excellent writing skills and calm. 

Sirve delivery. Call 500—305 or 500-332- 
0. 


TELEVISION 


HELP WANTED MANAGEMENT 


General manager. Multi-media Corporation is seeking à 
general manage for its top-ranked VHF independent sta- 
lion located in tne Pacific Northwest Candidate must have 
Proven station management experience, with strong un- 
derstanding of sales, programing and promotions. Please 
send resume to Box A-53. Equal opportunity employer. 


Sales manager. Secking general end local sales meneg- 
er for network alfiliete, Musthave proven track record. Rare 
career opportunity. Send resume to: Personnel Director, 
2242 North Great Neck Rd. Virginia Beach, МА 23451. 


Development director for public television station WPT: 
Hespontine tor generating 30% ol station revenue 
through membership, suction, underwriting and other pro- 
jects, Will lead a support sta of four. Qualifications in- 
clude demonstrated fundraising success, good manage- 
ment skill, and the ability to worketfectively with business 
people, volunteers DOE. WVPT ie 10- 
cated inane of Virginia's fastest growing cities in the heart 


to Arthur E. Albrecht, Persident, WPT, 298 Port Republic. 
Rd. Harrisonburg, YA 22801. ЕС! 


cation skis. Prior national television sales management 


топлу desired. Minimum three years television sales 
‘experience ro be considered. Send resume and cover l 
terto: Personnel, clo WPGIH-TV, 750 ivory Ave. Pittsburgh, 
РА 15214. No phone calls. EOE, WF. 


Director of development and marketing: Senior man- 
‘agement position responsible forall development, market- 
ing, and public information for community licensed PTV 

in public 
broadcasting lundraising techniques including member- 
ship, underwriting, special events, auction. direct mail 
and telemarketing. Strong budgeting, marketing and man- 
‘agement skills are essential. KNPB/Channel5is located in. 
Reno, Nevada, an alpine desert community at the foothills 
ofthe Sierra Nevada Mountains, close to Lake Tahoe end a 
few hours Irom San Francisco. Send letter of interest and 
resume to: Linda Tabakin, Box 14730, Reno, NV 89507. 
Selary open. Excellent beneflis, Material must be received 
by December 14. АМЕСЕ. 


Scheduling manager for engineering department. Mini- 
mum 2 years experience in scheduling large crews re- 
quired, Production management, public TV and labor con- 
ttactexperionce preferred. Resume, relerences and salary 
history by 11/30/87 to: КОЕР, Personnel, 500 8th St., San 
Francisco, СА 94103. EOE 


‘General sales manager for west Texas TV station, Must 
be aggressive, eneigelic and eble to effectively motivate 
sales team. Send resume to GSM, P.O. Box 27206, Hous- 
ton, TX 77027, EOE. 


Promotion manager: Dynamic 2 year old indy needs 
hands-on promotion manager. Experience with 3l" and 
1” production, script writing, media buying and sales pro- 
motion contests are necessary. College degree preferred. 
Long hours -short pay -greatopportunity fick Lowe, GM, 
KRAT-TV, San Antonio, 1X 512—684-0035. 

General sales manager: Needed lor southern neiwork 
atiiate. Must have 2-3 yeas prior telovision sales experi- 
ence, Siete present salary. Box A81. 

National sales manager. NEC affiliate, Sunbelt top 60. 
Seeking a strong sales oriented persontohardle this func- 
tion. Must have 3-5 years television sales experience. 
Send resume lo Box A-55. 


News directorleditorienchor. Management pro. All for- 
mats. Credible, Authoritative, Mediumimajor market inqui- 
‘les only. Dave Brannen: 814—891-7373. 


SITUATIONS WANTED PROGRAMING 
PRODUCTION AND OTHERS 
Morning drive entertainer, manager, salcaman, play by 
play. All around radio talent seeks moming opporturily 
With possible sales/management combo, Box A-2. 


WTOG-TV is seeking a hands-on "go-gerter" as business 
manager. Applicants must have an accounting degree 
plus 5 years experience, preferably in a service industry 
Company. H you are looking for a growth opportunity, serd 
your complete resume and a letter telling us why you're he 
Porson for the job. Send to: Edward G. Aiken, Vice Presi- 
‘Gent/General Manager, WTOG-TV, 365-105th Теп. NE, St 
Petersburg, FL 33716. An equal opportunity employer, Mi 
F. 


HELP WANTED SALES 


эз years radirTV plus agency. Programing. operations. 
production, air. Some sales; Jennings-rained. Prefer op- 
portunity Northeast, Box A-S1. 


General sales manager, Northeast affiliate in quaii 
chy. Outstanding compensation plan with six figure earn 
ing target. Resumes to Вох 4-55. EOE, MIF. 


Cleveland/Pittaburgh: Jerry "DJ" Swoihers. Production S 
promotion wizard! Siation cwmers call: 1—800—327-5788, 
all оеш: 412—244-TV72. 


Programing made easy and cost efficient for as litle ac 
3250 a month, Mejor programer and productior/music pro 
wil handle ali programing musiciairchecking-critique by 
phone ard mail. Now all stations can sound and compele 
for mejor colar and ratings, The Ме ie here nov. Веру 
Box А-ТА. бе а charter member before we go public; all 
formats. 


Network affiliate seeking aggressive account executive 
with proven track record to handie established list. Also 
Seeking trainee for rare career opportunity. Send resume 
to: Personnel Director, 2242 North Great Neck Ra., Virginia 
Beach, VA 23451. 


Position available for local account executive at KXLY- 
TV. Experienced salesperson to handle local accounts, 
‘Two years experience pielorrog. Salary plus commission, 
‘and benefits. EOE. Send resume by November 27 to: LSM, 
KXLY-TV, West 500 Boone Ave., Spokane, WA 89201. 


- а ^ 


Local sales manager: Immediate opportunity for inno- 
vative leader who would enjoy the challenge ol develop- 
ing new business in ће th market, Be a part of an excit- 
ing new indy -auality programina - highest rated fran 

in the NHL - promotion oriented. Send resume and reler- 
‘ences ASAP Io L Lynch, GSM. WNYB-TV, 899 Hertel Ave.. 
Buffalo, NY 14207. 


Local sales manager. WIS-TV is taking applications for 
the position of local sales manager. Applicants should 
fave sales manager experience. WIS-TV Is a premier 
broadcasting station with a solid reputation in the south- 
eastern United States, This is an excellent opportunity but 
itis also very challenging. WIS-TV is a station of the Cos- 
mos Broadcasting Corporalion. Please send resumes 
which will be held in strictest confidence to C. Joseph 
Tonsing. General Sales Manager, 1111 Buil St, Columbia, 
SC 20201. EOE. 


‘Sunbelt sales manager: WATX-TY, Columb: 1 
rear Atlantic or Gulf beaches, much nearer Atlantic, major. 
group and F'ox/ndependent. Responsible for local sales, 
байс, and creative services. Ideal candidate will be de- 
greed, stable, minimum kour years local sales experience, 
Strong leadership anc people skills and possess an ag- 
gressive lean restless hunter nature. Resume to Box 
12188, Columbus, GA 31907. 


Account executive. Spot sellers need not apply! If you 
‘are interested in creating marketing plans that satisty sun- 
ny California advertisers needs, send resume tn Parson- 
rel Depenment, KMPH-TV.26, 5111 E. McKinley Ave., 
Fresno, CA 93727. Independent and sports franchise 
sales experioncoie preferred. Broadcast sales experience 
required. Applications will be accepted untill December 
15, 1987. No phone calle, please. An EOE, WFH. 


Midwest affiliate secks experienced account executive. 
Excellent compensation and benefits. Vendor support, co- 
op knowledge desirable. Send resume and income re- 
‘Guiremerts to Box A-62. EOE. 


HELP WANTED TECHNICAL 


Assistant chle! engineer for CBS affiliated UHF. 3-5 
Years transmitter experience. Resume and salary require 
ments 1o Roger Topping. WIFR-TV, Box 123. Rockford, iL 
61105. FOE. 


Mester control operator, musthave 1-2 years MCO expe- 
ence, Resuma with salary requamarts to Roger Тор- 
ping, WIFR-TV, Box 123, Rockford, IL 51105. EO! 


‘Thief engineer: Top 50 market network afiliate is seeking 
а chief engineer. Along with tolal supervision of day to day 
engineering areas ofthe station, position will be involved 
їп speciel projects, capital expenditures and long range 
planning, Ability to effectively manage people as well as 
machines is a requirement. Experience as a chie! engi- 
neer or assistant chief engineer is required. Send resume, 
with salary history to Box À- 


TMX editoritechnical director—PBS station is вен 
an experienced tulltime CMX editorechaical director with 
CMX 340 or 3100 experience preferred. Will operate on- 
line edit booth consisting of Sony 1100 and 2000 VTRS. 
Chyron CG, Graham Patten audio mixer, and processing 
equipment, Strong, technical and aesthetic abilities re- 
‘quired, May also periorm technical director, video tape 
operator, and other engincering ав assigned, Minimum 3 
ив of documentary editing experience prelerred. NA- 

Union position. Send resume and references by De- 
ember 1, 1987 to rie Dauster, Manager of Engineer 
‘Operations, KAED-TV, 500 Eighth St., San Francisco, 
94103. No phone calls. please. EOE. 


Needed: Entry level broadcast maintenance engineer. 
Must have knowledge of basic electronics, Opportunity lo. 
earn studio and transmitte: maintenance, Send resume to: 
ЈА. Middleton, Drawer D. Hardin, MT 58034. 


сөт engineer: Must possess solid technical Skills ana 
be abte to communicate effectivelyw th staff and manage- 
ment, Send resume to Dave Tillery, Operations Manager. 
KGIV-TV, Р.О. Box 247, St. Joseph, MO 64506, EOE. 


471768. Duties: Super. 
par r WSEP-TV а WSFP.EM in 
Fort Myera, FL. Minimum qualifications: Bachelor's degree 
‘electrical or electronic engineering & 1 yaar experience 
electronic design, repair and construction; or high 
school diploma or equivalert and 5 years experience as 
above. Salary $785, 60-864, 16 bi-weekly. Apply to Univer- 
sity of Florida, Division of Personnel Services, Татра, FL 
33620, 613-974-2970. USPS employment apolicalion 
and ali supporting documents must be received by 12/047 
BT. Equal opportunity employerfaffirmative action. 


Maintenance technician: Installation and repair ol studio. 
and transmiftor equipment, Some design. planning, and 
training responsibilities. Rotating shits Including rights 
‘and weekends, Requires associates degree in electrical 
technology or equivalent formal training, plus exoerience. 
in electronic ropairioublechooting. FCC license or SBE 
certification. Send resume: Manager of Human Resources, 
WMHT-TVIFM, Box 17, Schenectady, NY 12301. EOE. 


vise engineering 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1087 


University television services: Assistant direcior and 
chief engineer for a production center which primarily pro- 
duces programirg for Alabama Public Television Experi- 
enced television broadcast engineer to oversee all en 
neering needs cl UTS including папаг aspects ct con- 
struction, Installation, and maintenance. Wi also assume 
‘managerial responsibilities as assistant ciractor af LTS. 
Most Be able 1 lead production facility in such areas as 
the selection of a new video recording formal and conver- 
sionto stereo audic in the naar future. Education 

ЕЕ. degree or technical education in electronics. 
ence required: Significant experience in installation and 
maintenance o! equipment currently in use al UTS, such as 
‘Ampex VPR-2 and VPR-80, Chyron VP-2, and гале зюгег 
‘with digitel efects, Responsibility for the technical opera- 
tion of a facility and long-range engineering planning. A 
record of significent managerial and supervisory experi- 
ence. License required: General class FCC radiotele- 
phone license. Application deadline. December 2. 1867. 
Target date for position lo be tilled is February 1. 1988. 
Send resume to: Employment Office, Box 6163. The Uni- 
versity of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL 35487. The University 
‘of Alabama is an EOE/AA employer. 


Master control operatora: Rotating shifts including 
ights anc weekend. Prior TV master control experienc 
quired. Send resume: Manager of Human Resources, 


WMHT-TVFM, Boa 17, Schenectady, NY 12301. EOE. 
Chief engineer: Greer televison station for the right per- 
son. Musi be experienced, technically sound, good with 
People. Respond to: Duane Найт, КИТУ, Bok 14159, 
Oklahoma City, OK 73113. 


Assistant director of engineering. Top 25 market net- 
work attiliate seeking experienced people-oriented engi- 
neering management p'ofessional. Design. planning. 
Computer and Budgeting skills should be as finely honed 
as your operations skills, BSEE or equivalent and seven 
years cxporionco required. Include cn a seperate sheet a 
briel statement сї what you think is necessary lo put a 
station in the forelrant technologically and to make station 
а vital contributor tc broadcasting and йз future. Equal 
‘opportunity, employer, MIF. Send resume to T. Bentsen, 
Direciorof Engineering, WBAL-TV, 3800 Hooper Ave. Bal- 
timore, MD 2121 


Maintenance technician. Aggressive New England inde- 
pendent siation seeking a maintenance technician. I you 
ara selmol а 

ground, looking lor а challenging opportunity to join atast- 
{Growing team. please send your resume in confidence tn 
Bova EOE 


HELP WANTED NEWS 


Special projects producer: Produce special segments 
jor newscasts, special event Coverage. and news spe- 
ciais. Prefer extensive reporting end newscasi producing 
Experience. Send resume, references, and non-relumable 
video samples: Ken Middleton, News Director. WTSP-TV 
{St Petersburg/Tampa). Box 10,000, Si. Petersburg. FL 
33733, ЕСЕ. No са please. 


News director: Too market seeks aggressive manager. 
Must be able to combine lop level competitiveness with 
Superb people skills We have all he tools along with tne 
best stall in the region. Send resume, letter of philosophy, 
Télerences and salary requirement to Box A-52, All replies 
will De handled confidentially. This position will be filled 
аз soon es we find the right person so if you're that person, 
apply now! ЕСЕ, MF. 


Assignment editor: Our best is moving Up зо we're lodh- 
ing for an energetic aggressive person 10 guide our talent- 
ес stall. f you're the best and want to Join the best then 
са! today, Billye Gavin 405-843-6641. ЕСЕ. WF 


Feature reporter/anchor: Ifyou havea love and talent or 
feature reporting. and also a subscription to Sports Illus- 
trated, youmay De the righ! person or us. We are seeking a 
ong feature reporter o fill a major role on our newsteam, 
reporting and anchoring ош coverage of sports and (e- 
creation. Send resume, lape and relerences to Michael 
Sullivan. News Director, WCBD-TY, Р.О. Box879, Charles- 
Ton, SC 29402 No beginners or phone calls, please. ЕСЕ, 
MF. 


Anchor, Midwestern number one affiliate where news 
comes iirst, We're looking for a solid, experienced anchor 
commited Xo qualiy and community involvement. An 
ЕОЕ Box A75. 


News anchor: Seeking seasored repener/anchor with 
solid wiling & producing skills. Wil join female co-anchor 
for 6 & 10 casts al aggressive midwestern small markel 
CES affiliate. Computerized newsroom, No beginners, Re- 
Sume and salary hopes to Box A-05. EDE. 


Reporter. Mature individual who can cover beat and 
break stories Minorities encouraged. Non-returnable tape 
to: Craig Alexander. News Director, WIVO, Bax 5590, Lex- 
ington, KY 40555, EOE 


ТУ news: Chief correspondent. б nightly cable pro: 
gram. Experienced in ОЛУ, navy assignment editor 
ies, able lo wile well. Serve as instructor in broadcast 
nowswriting. Salary mid thirties. Contact: Naw York Insti 
Ме of Technology. Did Westbury, NY 11588, atn: AF. 
jazza. 


Production company з now taking applicants for a full 
time 5 and 10pm news director. Must have two years expe- 
rience n technical directing with Ampex and DVE experi- 
ance. Send resume and tape of sample work to Kenneth 
Hasten Р.О. Box 2229, Topeka, KS 66601. 


SITUATIONS WANTED MANAGMENT 


A number 1, 
un. Can also bring an experienced team, GSM, chiet engi- 
nar, elc. if necessary. We cont work miracles! We Jast 
work! Independent or network. Below the lop sity, SE 
Prelerted, Excellent professional, personal anc financial 
references. Write Box А-57. 

Gable television regionaVgeneral manager seeking 
"opportunity to use skills in incustry ю advantage of both ol 
us. 25+ years radio/tv. 8+ years cable TV. Let's talk! 
Wah Tirschwell 41556 1-0288. 

‘SITUATIONS WANTED TECHNICAL 


‘Chief engineer with over ten years experience. Gereral 
License, SBE Senior Certification, Certified Electronics 
Techni Please сей or write Dennis Maddox, 
615—877-1235 215 Trenton Street, Chatanooge, TN 
37445. 

Chief engineer, thoroughly experienced in studio, wans- 
miter and management. Will relocate, call Bill Taylor 
501— 366-7525. 

Exp. audio recording engr., BSEE, former radio broad- 
cast chief, see 


king opportunity in television or related io- 
Б. 005—541-3105. 


dusty. 


Hostiproducer: For WHTV, Charlotte's PM Magazine to 
partner with veteran Bob Lacey on a show #1 lor ts B year 
history. Strong producing skills, love of travel, no contrac- 
tual obligations past 2/88, a must. Send tape and resume 
io: Marion Meginnis, ВТУ, One Julian Price Pl., Char- 
lette, NC 28208. No calls. An equal opportunity employer. 


Reporter special projects: Prepare spacial reports for 
Newscasts. special event coverage. anc news specials. 
Send resume, references and non-teturnabie videotape: 
Ken Middleton, News Director, WTSP-TV, Box 10,000, St 
Petersburg, FL 33733. EOE. No phone calls, please. 


Producer: Television news producer wanted for KEYT-TV 
in Santa Barbara, Must be an excellent writer, a good 
manager of people, anc creative producer. Must have pri- 
‘or TV news experience in this field. College degree pre- 
ferred. Send letter, resume and tape to News Director, 
KEYT, Drawer X, Sante Barbara, CA 92102. EDE. 


PRODUCTION & OTHERS 


Network affiliate seeking production director, editor and 
innovative copywriter tc stati expanding sales service de- 
ariment. Must have two years minimum experience. Send 
demo tape with resume to; Personnel Director, 2242 North 
Great Neck Rd. Virginia Beach, VA 23451. 


Producer/dlrector, Tulsas news slalion is lookig for an 
‘experienced newscast director, The position requires at 
least 2 years of experience directing news and a college 
degree This individual will be Involve in determining Ihe 
graphic сок ofa first rate newscast. Please send resumes 
оу ю: Bud Brown, Creative Services Director, KOTV. P.O. 
ox 6, Tulsa, OX 74101. An equal opporunity employer. 


‘Station strong and getting stronger. Needs promotion 
marketing manager to коор station positioned for croative 
and aggressive "88 and beyond, Write G.M., Box 3257, 
Port Аллы, TK 77643, KJAC-TV. A Price Communications 
station, 


Assignment editor. WPT, public television in South 
Florida has an immediate opening tor an assignment edi- 
lor. Assumes responsibility for assigning stories and coor- 
Ginating coverage lor "The Nightly Business Report. а 
nationally syndicated public television program. works 
with full-time and parime bureaus ю generate fas 
breaking news as wall as features. Identities resources in 
major cities ano assists in booking of program guests. 
Minimum of 2 years in TV news covering business and the 
economy and college degree with major courte study in 
journalism and/or business economics required. We offer 
а competitive starting salary and excellent benefits. Send 
кезит along with salare requitemenis to: Admins 
Human Resources, WPBT/Channel 2, Р.О. Box 2. Miami, 
FL. 33261-0002. Equal opportunity employer, WM, 


iMetooroiogieVweathereasier:Irmediae ooerings or 
Sipanenced and enr level oecastrs i sumo 

иви оле. Rush tage & resume ю ЧП Wimmer, PO. 
Box Stee Flushing, NY 1954, 


Southeastern top 60 network веќе expanding news 
stati, Accepting tapes from aggressive reporters. photog- 
fathers, producers, Tapes will De held for future consider- 
ation. No phone calls, please, Attn. News Direclor, WOEF- 
TV. 3300 Broad Street. Chattanooga. TN 37408. 
Producer We need a newscast producer. We're looking 
or someone with excellent news judgement. superior wrli- 
ing and quality people skills, We've got siate ol the ап 
technology anc some of the best people in Ine business. 
We need someone who can put them logether to produce a 
top-notch newscast. Resume io Box A-72. EOE. 
Photographer. ENG pholcg jor Capitol Hill News Service. 
Min. Ту otp. 202-224-1878, 


Commercial edltor/diectovmanager for high-volume 
ABC affiliate. 2/4" editing, client relations and graphic 
skills necessary. Salary depends on experience. Send re- 
Sume, credits and tape, KTXS. Box 2997, Abilene, TX 
79608, EOE MIF. 


Documentary producer. Leading mid Alarlic, major 
producing regional network seeks an experienced docu- 
mentary producer direolor-eriter-editor to produce five to 
six significant, award-winning, regionally focused, issue 
oriented video documentaries per year. |t is expected Ihat 
‘each program will have potential to be recut for ater па- 
tional distribution. Three to live years as documentary p'o- 
ducer needed wiih complele knowledge of small format 
video procuction and edit equipment Closing date ior 
Submission of resume and sample tape, December 8. 
Equal opportunity employer. Contact: Michael B. Styer. 
VP, Broadcasting, Maryland Public Television, 11767 Bon- 
ка Avenue, Owings Mills. MD 21117. 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


SITUATIONS WANTED NEWS 


Beautiful, black female cx-jcurnalism teacher for on-sir 
reporting position Former intern: top 20 news. Relocate? 
Sure, any market Tape. Lynn 314—7252321 p.m. 


Radio reporier/anchor with 2 years experience in 11th- 
largos! market desires move into TVnews or sports. Broad- 
cast journalsim degree cum laude, experience shoot 
editing video, Tape available. Dan 216—365-9891. 


Energetic black male seeks chanllenging opportunity 
with news organization, Reporting, anchoring. media man- 
agement experience. Aggressive and dependable loo. 
513—871-0867. 


Sports producer: Recent college graduate. looking юг 
that “first break’, seeks an entry level sporis producer 
position, Danny 818-340-8136, 


Experienced as top 40-market executive producer, as- 
signment editor and top 100 аз news director. Production, 
people and jouralisticelly skilled. Hary Bowman 
803—-885-8302 


‘Award winning meteorologist, AMS seal, in small market 
leaking 10 move to larger market in the East, Box A-67 


Experienced sslos/productien professional with exten- 
give mation piro goar arc resource sacks FTIPT posi- 
lion with TV/flm spors unit Mid Atlantic, Call Al 
215-641-1954, 


"Award winning 403 market reporter, producer and writer 
seeks new challenge in news, corpcrate video or docu- 
mertary field. Box A-80. 


SITUATIONS WANTED PROGRAMING 
PRODUCTION & OTHERS 


Production manager with eight years experience and 
degree in TViiimsecks position with progressive, growing 
lity. Highly creative, extensive hance on experience 
all phases cf production. Elective management skills 
Sluce building teamwork and loyalty, cutting costs while 
inereasing productivi: Let me go to work er you. Box A 


MISCELLANEOUS 
Primo People: Hosts, interviewers, entertainment critics 
‘and reporters we need you, Send tape and resume to Steve. 
Porricelti, Box 116, Old Greenwich, CT 06870-0116, 
203-637-3659, 


ALLIED FIELDS 


HELP WANTED INSTRUCTION 


Two naw tenure track poaltiona will be opened lor the 
1888-80 academic veac. Assistant Professor is preferred 
unless qualifications marit appointment at a higher rank 
Doctorate required, A B.D. acceptable il near completion. 
College teaching anc professional experience are highly 
desirable. The ability for each candidate to teach in a 
number ai specialized areas, such as broadcas! promo- 
боп and programing, broadcast journalism, broadcast 
management and photography. would be very desirable. 
А record of. or potential lor. substantial academic re- 
Search achievement is a prerequisite for faculty at Texas 
Tech University. Engage in university and professional 
service. Competitive, based on qualifications. Summer 
‘teaching possible il candidate possesses doctorate, Send 
inquiries, vita and thr 

1988 o: Professor Ast 


4710, Lubbock, TX 79409, 


Buffalo State College seeks two facully al assistant or 
associate professor for fall 1988 with teaching expertise in 
the following areas: BROADCAST JOURNALISM. Radio- 
ТУ newswriting and program production, broadcast co- 
pywriting, anc ability to teach basie news reporting or 
‘ssues-oriented departmental classes Minimum five years 
broadcast news experience. BROADCASTING. Principles 
of broadcasting, basic radio or television production, 
broadcast copywiiing. and introductory courses in mass 
communication cr broadcasting. Minimum five years 
broadcast production or programing experience. Ph D 
preferred, or master's degree with significan! professional 
experience, and prior college or university teaching. At- 
tractive tringe benefits; salary based upon cualificatlons. 
Send application letter, esuma, three relerence names ic 
Dr, Рік Whitaker, Chairman, Department of Journalism, 
Broadcasting and Speech, Buffa o State College, Buflalo, 
NY 14222, Application deadline November 16, 1987, or 
until pos tion filled, Contingent upon approval by the State 
University of New York. Ап equal opportunity-afirmat ve 
action employer, applications Irom women and minority 
cand dates are particularly encouraged, 


Roy W. Howard Professor in journal sm & mass commu 
nications research, The Schoolof Journalism, Indiana Uni- 
versity, invites applications for the endowed Foy W. How- 
ard Proloscorship. a tenured, senior faculty position. The 
‘schoo! is seeking a scholar and teacher with а distin- 
guished research record in journalism and mass commu- 
nications. The Howard Prolesscr will engage in research, 
teach one course a semester, and select a nationally 
Prominent scholar each yearto presentthe Roy W. Howard 
Lecture at Indiana University, The expected beginning 
dale of the appointment is August 31, 1988. Please send 
applications with curriculum vitae and names of three ref 
erences iy January 1. 198810: Trevor Brown, Dean, School 
ol Journalism, indiana University, Bloomington, IN 47405. 
Telephone 812-535-5249. Indiana University is an affirm- 
alive action, equal opportunity empicyer. 


HELP WANTED PROGRAMING 
PRODUCTION AND OTHERS 


Video production manager. Responsible for "hands on” 
direction of complete media department including re- 
searching, writing, directing anc producing video pro- 
grams in the areas of рай єтї educalion, community devel- 
‘opment and general community services. Salary commen- 
surate with experience. Liberal fringe benefits Including 
health and lite insurance, pension anc profit sharing pro- 
gram. Send resume with relerences to: Personnel Director, 
Neumann Eye Institute, 801 North Stone Street, DeLand, FL 
32720. 


PROGRAMING 


Вайс А TV Bingo. Oldest promotion in the Industry 
Copyright 1962. Worie Wice Bingo. Р.О, Box 2311, Lietie- 
ton, CO E0122. 303-735-3288 

New Years Eve Special. Big Band”, 6 hours announced 
on 10-112" reels. Afordable quality. 602—267-8076 for 
demo. 


EMPLOYMENT SERVICES 


Government jobs, $15,040 - 869,230" yr. Now hiring. Your. 
area. 805—587-5000 ex. R-7833 for current Federal list. 


EDUCATIONAL SERVICES 


On-air training: For TV reporters (beginners, veterans, 

cross-overs from print. Polish your delivery, appearance, 

йг Pract ce wih Teleprompter, Learn Кот former 

ABC Netwerk news correspondent and New York local 

reporter. Make demo tape. Call 212-921-0774, Eckhert 
jecial Procuctions, Inc. (ESP). 


WANTED TO BUY EQUIPMENT 


‘Wanting 250, 500. 1.000 and 5,000 watt AV-FM transmit 
ters Guarantee Radio Supply Corp. 1314 Iturbide Street, 
Laredo, TX 78040. Manuel Flores 512—723-3331 


Graduate sesletantenips in telecommunications M.A, 
Starting June, 1988. Half-time stipenc 625/ month for 12 
‘months, plus tuition waiver. Write lor information: Director, 
Graduate Program, Radio-TV Department, Southern li 
nois University, Carbondale, IL 62901-6609. AAE/ ECE. 


Graduate asaistantships in radio. video production, 
ENG, sports. cable, and film-making. Contact Or. William 
А Rambin. Head, Department cf Communication A 
Northeast Lousiana University, Mone, LA 71209 
318—342.2144. EOE! AA 


Assistant professor of radio and television. Postion 
carries responsibility or courses in radio and monitoring 
students at siation KLUM-FM. Occasional teaching of 
Courses in television and broadcast journalism. Earned 
doctorate desired or masters and both media and teach: 
ing experience. Salary competitive. To apply submit a 
resume, official transcripts. and three letters of relerence. 
te the Personnel Office, Lincoln Univers ty, 320 Chestnut 
Street. Jefferson City, МО 65101 betore December 4, 
1987 Ап EO! AA employer. 


HELP WANTED SALES 


Florida auncoast based production company needs 
salesperson, Ability to meet people essentia. We will 
train. Video Techniques, Inc., P.O. Box 14010, Bradenton, 
FL 34280. 


The Ous Conner Companies-Dallas based Music pro- 
duction house, needs sales rep. Our clients include Mc: 
Donald's, Diet Coke. AMC Jeep, Sears, CBS, as well as 
major radio А TV stations coast to coast Very ite travel. 
must live or re-locate іс Dallas. Prior broadcast expe! 
ence in sales or programing а must. Send confidential 
resume ю: The Otis Conner Companies. cio Dan Frazier, 
4801 Spring Valley, #1058 Dallas, TX 75244. Phone calls 
welcomed: 214 386-8847. 


HELP WANTED TECHNICAL 


Video engineer: The Department of Communication at 
Miami University (Ohio) seeks a competent videc engi- 
neer lo be the chief engineer of the mass communication 
area of the Department of Commun cabon. This person 
must be experienced in the maintenanca and repair of 
such video equipment as monitors, VCR's, editors and 
‘cameras. Person must be capabie of supervising another 
‘engineer on the staff. Exoerience in an educational ervi- 
ronment would be a plus. However, this is not essential 
Good salary. Excellent benefits. Apolications will be ac- 
cepted until a suitable person is found for the posilion 
Send resume along w th tre names ol tree relerences whe 
‘right be contacted to. Dr, Susan Reilly, Department ої 
‘Communication. Miami University. Oxtord, OH 45056. Mi- 
ami University is an equal орропипйу/ affirmative action 
employer. 


MISCELLANEOUS 


Instant cash—highest prices. We buy TV ransmiters and 
studio equipment $1,000 reward lor information leading 
to cur purchase ol a good UHF transmitter. Quality Media. 
 3C9 665-3767. 


ied UHF TV transmitters? When brand new, 
, 15K, 30Ku, GOK, 120K, 


quote Astre Systems Inc, Modesto, CA 208 675-1000. 


Blank tape, hall price! Pertec! for editing, dubbing or 
studio. recording commercials, resumes, student pro- 
tects, training, copying, etc. Field mini KCS-20 minute 
Cassettes 56.49 Elcon evaluated 3/4 videocassettes guar- 
anteed broadcast quality. To order call Carpel Video Inc., 
‘301-845-8888, of call toll ree, 800—238-4300. 


Sony type 5 buy/ sell prices VPS000 450/800. vPSE00 
730/1 000 у05800 t,89/2 300 VOS850 3000/3760 RM440 
550/800 Prices vary with conditor. Instaplay Video 
212-366-7540, 


ЯСА TTU 110€ UHF transmitter: tuned 10 channel 23 in 
excellent condition, Available Apri 1988. Ош of service 
due to channel change. Complete with efficiency options 
5 years old. Cali Chiet Engineer at 304 T57-8623. 


ЯСА TFU 28DAS: Peanut pattern antenna tuned о Chan- 
nel 23. Excellent concilion Out of service due 10 channel 
change. Will produce SOOOKW with TIOKW transmitter 
Gall Chief Engineer at 304-— 757-8823. 


Phelps-Dodge 12-bay antenna, 106.7 MHz Prox 850 3- 
1/8" rigid transmission line, Miscl. hangers. Very good 
condition. Engineers W.QY 305—484-8107 


Fantastic deal on 30KW television transmiter channel 8. 
Pricea low Contact Wille 314—474-5127 day, 314—443- 
B117 night 


Grass Valley 100 59,000.00, Grass 400 routing switcher. 
plete ine o! remote trucks and trailers, All makes. 
and models of VIA’s and VCF's along with a variety of 
portable and studio cameras. Needed: Vital squeezoom, 
and Ikegami HK-357 cameras. Call today to get on our 
monthly flyer. Media Concepts 919-977-9600 ext 45, 


Sony broadcast BVP-150 ENG camera, 3 tube, high reso: 
lution like new. low hours, 305-854-5489. 

Sony VO-5800 VTA, like new, wi kangaroo case, RF 
modulator, 305-864-5489. 


Т” videotape. Looking lor large quantities, 30 minutes or 
longer will pay shipping. Call 301-645-0600. 


FM antennas): Will buy used FM broadcast antenna(s) - 
ary make - any model - Call 606-372-4518. 


FOR SALE EQUIPMENT 


АМ and FM transmitter, used excellent condition Guar- 
artecd. Financing available, Transcom. 215—864 0888, 
Telex 810—240 2856. 


FM transmitters “Harris FMZSK(1908]AEL 25KG" ACA 
BTF-10D" Harris FM-1OH3(1OKWJ"" - ВСА 58-АСА 38- 
CCASCOQD(3KVW/"" Synironics 3.5 FM" Transcom, Corp. 
215—884.0884, Telex 910—240-3858- 


AM transmitters "Transmitters"? Harris BC-YOH(TOKW]" 
5KW-Cllins Power Rock (1978)"* TKW-Harris MWIA-Har- 
fis BC1H" Collins 20V2 Gates BC500" Transcom Corp. 
21564-0866, Telex 910-240-3855 

SOKW AM "Gales ВС-50С (1366) on air wl many spares, 
n STEREO" Transcom Corp. 215—804.0963. Telex 
3102403856. 

New Tv startups. Quali Wadia can save you money Top 
quality equipment at lowest prices. Business Plans, 
Ranci^g available Quality Media 303-565-3767. 


"1000" Kline tower боса condition. Standing in central 
US, Call Bill Kitchen 202—465 4141 


Freeman. Television Technology 303—465-4141. 
FM antennas. CP antennas, excellent price - quick deliv 
егу, from recognized leader in antenna design. Jampro 
Antennas. Inc. 916-383-1177 

ТУ antennas. Custom design - 60KW peak input power. 
‘Quick delivery. Excellent coverage. Recognized in design 
‘adn manuiacturing. Horizontal, elliptical and circular po- 
larized. Jamoro Aniennas, Inc. 916—383 1177. 

880 zone A tower with Guy's. on ground, 12 bay antenna 
93.1 MHZ, KOID/ Alexandria. LA. 318—445-1234. 


RADIO 


Situations Wanted Management 


TOP OPERATING 
MANAGEMENT PROBLEMS? 


Extraordinary broadcast executive 
available. Background includes 
major market general sales man- 
agement, general management and 
executive group management for 
major group owner Presently very 
successful in related field and wish- 
es to return to radio. 


Will require: Substantial finance 
package and equity but can make 
your investment dreams come true. 
Reply in confidence: Box A-63. 


DOUBLE-BARRELED MEDIA EXEC 
Attomey-broadeaster seeks strategic chal- 
lenge in entmedia Industry. 18 yrs in radio - 
turnaround, startup specialist - major mkticorp 
io sm mkt owner, Top 10% lawschool class 
member Cal bar, business itigator. 213—277- 
2579. 


Broadcast quailty evaluated blank videotape. Big sav- 
ings оп all formats. Сай 1-800 346-4668 or п New York 
БТЕ 758-6116 to discuss details anc гесе ve price quo- 
tations on your specific requirements. 


‘Studer A810. new Studer A727 CD player, Capitol Carts 
Crown D75 amps. Great prices. 800—678 6800. 
Equipment financing: New or used 36-00 months. no 


own payment, no financials required under $25,000. Ae- 
Trance exisiting equipment. David Hill 214-422-2352 


For sale: MDS transmission time, Single channel MDS 
Sations in San Antonio, Killeen, Victoria Ё Austin, Texas 
Any time clot available for video and! or dala programs. 
For info call Juc 


254° Trusscon tower. Sait supporting with base isula- 
lors. On ground near Des Moines. I^. Afso Sciertific Allan- 
1а Senos 8000 cato [o dish, 3.2 meter with extender par- 
ls, Jal Hansen 515 282-1033. 


Help Wanted Management 


Fast growing station in fast growing South 
Jersey market looking for General Sates 
Manager. Excellent growth opportunity. 
Letter and resume to: David Klahr, Presi- 
dent, Clear Communications, Inc., 638 Lan- 
dis Ave., Vineland, NJ 08350. EOE/MF. 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


Help Wanted Sales 


Help Wanted News 


SALES MANAGER 

WANTED FOR КОО! 
Station is market leader (#1 35+ МОММ in Ty- 
ler, Texas, MSAITSA. Area's tallest tower а! 1468 
HAAT. 100 KW/ERP. Coverage ot all principal 
East Texas cities with exclusive Contemporary 
Easy Listening format. Shares superb facility with 
sister station KEBE in Jacksonville. Fully 
equipped sales offices in Tyler. Applicant must 


and earning historylrequirements to: 
Dudley Waller 
Р.О. Box 1648 Jacksonville, TX 75768 


Due to the Thanksgiving Day holiday, 
classified advertising for the November 
ЗО issue is due at noon November 20. 


EARLY DEADLINE 
NOTICE 


GREAT REPORTERS!!! 


For more among тоте tJ ow awar 
You fave at Май to years experience 


NATIONAL SALES MANAGER 
We are seeking a dynamic individual with a minimum of 8 years radio industry 
experience to help us sell the industry's highest-quality audience research serv- 
ices. As National Sales Manager, you will head up our sales department; respon- 


sibilities will include training, developing. and motivating our staff of account erin ty Baye use ey чам 
executives to effectively cover our markets nationwide, Superb sales, marketing, Fon ы: соти а тезі ас атто 
and management skills are required. Strong presentation and negotiation skills 
are essential. Travel will be required. We offer an excellent salary and compensa- 
tion package to the right candidate. Applicants currently residing in the Chicago 
area are preferred. Contact Michelle Erikson at 312—280-8300, or send resume 
and salary history to Kurt Hanson, President, Strategic Radio Research, 211 E. 
Ontario, Chicago, IL 60611 


sal 
TICES FO. Box 


WEATHER EXPANSION!!! 


Natr to 


ence expected, 


Sena resume to: 


TELEVISION 


Help Wanted Programing, Production, Others 


CREATIVE SERVICES 
DIRECTOR 


We're locking for a creative, 
take-charge individual to head 
up our creative services unit. 

Person will be responsible tor all 
station promotional efforts, our 
overall station design "look," and 
our sales promotion efforts. Person. 
must be experienced in media 
buying, analyzing ratings books, 
апа working with outside 
agencies. 

Ifyou are a team leader!player, 
a strong communicator, and a 
“people person." rush your tape, 
resume, and salary requirements 
to: 


David Earnhardt 
WIVF 
474 James Robertson 
Pkwy. 
Nashville, TN 37249 WTVF 
No phone calls, please. 
MIF. EEOC. 


David Lowell 
News Director 
KFOM-TV 
Р.О. Вох 7128 
Beaumont, TX 77706 


Equal Opportunity Employer 


WCCO-Television, CBS affiliate, seeks top notch, 
highly motivated and experienced person to head 
promotion department. Must be an aggressive idea 
person with proven skills in promo- 

tion, advertising and marketing. Re- 

sponsible for all aspects of news, A 
entertainment and station pro- 

motion. Department head level 

positon; ее RE back- Ld 
ground in media. Send resume 

to: Creative Services, 90 S, Lth, WCCO TV 
Minneapolis, MN 55403. Equal Opportunity Employer 


Broadeasting Nov 23 1987 
87 


TALENTED TV TALKER!!! 


Our winning ген seam is in. We are оон 
ning, ing egi Ex] 


may rov at yout us 
nd no piant Calis, ра Send 
isto o Waller Saddler, 
8887, Jackson. MS 


Help Wanted Technical 


ENG MAINTENANCE ENGINEER 


News Dept, is seeking ENG Maintenance En- 
gineer. Responsible for six HL-79 cameras, 3/ 
47 recorders, eating systems, single truck Ive 
sysem, remotes including some sports 
events, Will work closely with News Director 
‘on overall operations aspect of News Dept as 
part of management team. Three years experi- 


Help Wanted Sales 


Help Wanted Programing, 
Production, Others Continued 


TV SYNDICATION SALES 


Grow with a growing company 


Medstar Communications is one 
of the fastest growing compa- 
nies in the televised medical, 
news and health information in- 
dustry. 

We are looking for an individual 
with television Sales experience 
to sell our various programs to 
local TV stations. 

We'll only consider candidates 
with sales experience — ideally 
syndication sales or local sta- 


Competitive salary plus com- 
missions. Company-paid bene- 
fits include: Blue Cross/Blue 
Shield, major medical, dental, 
life, disability, retirement plan, 
and health club membership. 

If you qualify, send your resume 
and salary history to: Personnel 
Assistant, Medstar Communica- 
tions, Inc., 5920 Hamilton Boule- 
vard, Allentown, PA 18106 (no 
phone calls please). And grow 
with a growing company. 


tion sales. 


101 WAYS TO CUT LEGAL FEES & 
MANAGE YOUR LAWYER 


A Practical Guide for Broadcasters and Cable Operators 


In this candid, practical guidebook, communications "superlawyer" Erwin 
Krasnow (former General Counsel for the National Association of Broad- 
casters) strips away the mystique surrounding the legal profession to show 
broadcasters and cable operators how to: 


m Control legal costs 


S Saor the taht ew Hra m Monitor and evaluate a 
a lawyer's performance 
rangement 
= Get the most out of a lawyer " Remedy: Problems with 


Order your copy of this valuable book today. At $29.95, it will pay for itself 
any ti Ё 
many Imes over MAILTHIS COUPON TODAY! 


€—€—X—— 


мз------------+ 


DIRECTOR 


WNEV-TV, CBS affiliate in 
Boston, needs director for 
live daily magazine- 
format Kids’ Show. 
Contribule to concept, 
manage talent, pe and 
post production, blocking 
and visualization. 
Requires demonstrated 
knowledge and ability in 
chilcrer’s television 
production. Three to five 
years’ directing 

ience a must. 
ollege degree 
preferred. 

Send resume and reel to 
Robert D. Glover, 
Producer, WNEV-TV, 7 
Bullfinch Place. Boston, 
МА О214 


NO PHONE CALLS PLEASE 


Ме are on Equal Opportunity 
Employer 


CABLE TELEVISION 
CONSULTANT 


The Town of Cary, N.C. Ad Hoc 
Committee for Cablevision Review 
is seeking a qualified consultant to 
review, analyze, and advise the 
Committee on the technical, finan- 


4006 for an RFP and informati 
Proposals due by December 11, 
1987. 


О YES! want to benefit from the cost-cutting. Мате 
perfornance-boosiing ideas In 101 Ways To 
Cut Legal Fees & Manage Your Lawyer ‘Organization 
Send me — copies © $29.95 each ‘Street 
My check or money order payable to BeoAoCASTING 
Is enclosed. City ‘State Zip 
Mail lo: 


Broadcasting Book Division 
1705 DeSales Street, NW, Washington, DC 20036 
Or charge by calling toll-free 1-800-638-7827 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 
88 


THIS PUBLICATION AVAILABLE 
IN MICROFORM 


University Microfilms International 
300 North Zeeb Road, 


Dept. PR., Ann Arbor, MI 48106 


x 


Situations Wanted News Help Wanted Sales Business Opportunities 


г. 
Reporters available in RE AL ESTATE ENTREPRENEURS 
& INVESTORS 
MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY ER Li Ir ретик siete broadeasiers 
SCIENCE, ENVIRONMENT х тайо station group in markets 40-125. We 


boast ownership and extensive management 
experience in ай phases о! radio operations 
Including solid people, pianning, problem 
solving, sales, budget/cost control, FOC, and 
team Building sills, We are dedicated family 


‘Survey after survey shows that your 
audience wants to know more about these 
vital areas, But as you know, specialists 
who can report technical stories with verve 
and clarity for a general audience are 
scarce. Now there are a few such reporter/ 
producers available. 


v 

jt ! 

‘ 
Opportunity for aggressive person 
Wih burning desire for high rise/ian 
income career in commercial office 
and retail leasing. Ji you possess 
strong negotiation and communication 
skills we will provide the resources 


and environment for success! For con- 
fidential interview call: 


Howard Dolch Exec. V.P. 
212—857-5555 


men and sireet smart professionals of the best 
character, ethics, and integrity, In the climb up 
we have learned that success requires capital, 
strong leadership, and the best people...pius 
choosing the battlefield and competitors care- 
fully. We are very selective in this venture and 
expect you lo be. This is a rare opportunity for 
the serious investor who still believes in peo- 

le and the good old American work ethic. It 
his all sounds good and you agree there аге 
many exciting mountains cut there to climb. 
and dragons io slay then lets get together anc 
talk. Вох A-58. 


WGBHin Boston, a major producer of 
science programming including NOVA, has 
prepared six of the nation’s best science 

writers to be broadcast journalists. They've 
had extensive experience in both radio and 


television, taught by same of the best in the 
business. Their work has appeared on 
broadcasts such as All Things Consider 
The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour, WGBH's 
The Ten O'Clock News and Science Gazette. 
Their resumes and sample reels speak for 
themselves. 


These are not students, but aggressive, 
seasoned reporters who left secure print 
positions to enter broadcasting. They will 
be available in November. For further infor- 
mation please contact: 


David Kubn, Director of Science Fellowships 
WGBH, 125 Western Avenue, 
Boston, MA 02134, (617) 492-2777 


FREELANCE 
ENG/EFP CREW AVAILABLE 
Pacific Northwest (Seattle) based but eager to 
travel. Extensive broadcast news and corpo- 
rate/ndusirial experience, 
ВЕТАСАМ . 34S. 1" 
Contact: David Oglevie 206—281-7074 


ALLIED FIELDS 
Help Wanted Instruction 


Temple University 
Radio-Television-Film 


The Radio-Television-Film Department of 
Temple University invites applications for ten- 
ure track faculty positions combining exper- 
lise in the following areas: documentary film! 
video production. television production. writ- 
ing for the media, broadcast news, communi- 
cation theory, and mass media studies. 

Candidates. should have prior professional 
and/or teaching experience, with a commit- 
ment to both undergraduate and graduate in- 
struction. Rank and salary for all positions are 
dependent upon qualifications and experi- 
ence. Women and minority candidates are en- 
courage to apply. A letter of application, cure 
rent resume, and names, addresses, and tele- 
phone numbers of three references should be 
sent to: Professor Herbert S. Dordick, Chair, 
Redio-Television-Film Department, Temple 
University, Philadelphia, Pennsyivania 19122. 
Applications must be received by December. 
11. 1987 for guaranteed consideration. 


ЦЕ) Lansco | 


Employment Services 


JOB HUNTING? 


If you need a job. you need Meciatine. 
We give you job listings in news, weather, 
sporis, production, programming, pro- 
motion, and engineering. For $3750 
you get a daly report for 6 weeks 
1-800-237-8073 (n Missouri 
314-442-3354) Medial ine. P, O, Box КО, 
Columbia. MO 65205-4002. 


Lum and Abner 
Are Back 
piling up profits 

for sponsors and stations, 
15-minute programs from 


{ j the golden аде о! radio. 


PROGRAM DISTRIBUTORS = PO. Drawer 1737 
Joresboro. Arkansas 72403 = 501/972-5884 


Miscellaneous 


VENTURE CAPITAL 
DEBT FINANCING 
For broadcasters 
Sanders & Co. 
1900 Emery St., Ste. 206 
Atlanta, GA 30318 
404—355-6800 


ATTENTION 


BLIND BOX RESPONDENTS 


Advertisers using Blind Box Num- 
bers cannot request tapes or tran- 
Scripts to be forwarded to BROAD- 
CASTING Blind Box Numbers. 

Such materiais are not forwardable 
and are returned to the sender. 


For Sale Stations 


NORTHEAST 
Top 50 market AM; substantial 
real estate and state of the art 
equipment. Contact: 


RON HICKMAN 
201/579-5232 


TOP 125 MARKET 


$200,000 + Cash Flow 
$1,850 000/terms 
THE MONTCALM CORPORATION 
311 Norton Bldg. 
B01 Second Ave. 
Seattle, WA 98104 
206— 622-6236 


NETWORK AFFILIATE TV 


Top 100 market TV station. Ownership leaving 
the industry and wants a qualified multi station 
buyer. Station billings at reasonabie tevel but 
сав flow will not support current high lever- 
age. Excellent equipment and plant. Priced 
und $20,000,000, Вох A-56. 


Top 5 Market full-time AM. 
Perfect for ethnic/religlon. 
Asking $2.1 million. Contact: 
Jack F. Satterfield 
Gammon & Ninowski 
Media Investment 
215—525-8767 


MAJOR MARKET AM'S 
Washington, Philadelphia, Denver, St. Louis, 
Seattle, Nashville, Salt Lake City, Jacksonville 

Barry Sherman 

Be & Associates, Inc. 

1628 L Street, NW Suite 300 
Washington. DC 20036 (202) 429-0658 


Chapin 


Associates 


CALIFORNIA 


Medium market combo with 
cash flow. Asking $1.5 million 
with $600,000 down. Contact 


JIM MERGEN 
818/893-3199 


لم 


Full C in strong mkt of over 400,000. Nego- 
tiabie. 


Texas FMS and combos from $325K to 
$2Mii 


Med. Мк. Network TV- $10MI solia mkt. | 


Profitable combo in beautiful La. mkt - | 
$12Mi-terms. 


Atk, combo-170,000 pop. excellent terms. 
Miss. combos-great values for the $. 
John Mitchell or Joe Miot 


MITCHELL & ASSOCIATES 
Box 1065, Shreveport, La. 71163 
318—868-5409 318—869-1301 


CARIBBEAN BEACON 
STATION FOR LEASE 
690 Khe, 15,000 warts ful time, 50,000 watts 
available. We operate facility, you provide pro- 
gramming by tape or satelite, Covers Virgin 
Islands, St. Martin, Antigua, St Kits, etc, 


CALL GARY HAYES, 
CARIBBEAN BEACON 
1-800-542-5333 303—665-3767 


BRE Meader ое 


MEDIA BROKERS 


АМ-ҒМ-ТУ APPRAISALS 
РО. BOX 36 
LEXINGTON, MO 64067 KANSAS CITY, MO. 


816-259-2546 816-455-0001 


For Sale Stations Continued 


CALIFORNIA 
Two year old Class B FM with all new equip- 
ment on excellent mountain top site, Serves 
some 127,000 people in two-county recre- 
ational area. Lakeside studio property includ- 
ed. Offered at $600,000 with $150,000 down. 
Has everything for the right ownerloperator. 


BILL EXLINE ANDY McCLURE 


WM кэ Cede he 


4340 Redwood Hwy, Suite F-230 
San Rafael, California 94903 
415—479-3484 


1 Nationwide Medio Brokers 
Chapman 
Associates 
MIDWEST AM/FM 
Profitable smali market combo 
priced at 2x gross: $600,000 
with terms available. Contact: 


BILL LYTLE 
816/941-3733 


.FAR WESTFULLTING | 

E is regional AM has been on the air. 
for GC years. Besttacilllies and real. 

| estate, Good history of cashflow: 
Cash - $400,000. Terms - $350,000. 


ARIZONA AM/FM 

Class 4 & C2, 20yr, Hist, E. AZ Mts. last grow- 
ing regional commerce center in popular year- 
round vacalioniand. Owner seeks retirement. 
$895K = 5 7X cash flow, incl. real estate, по 
existing сер, $200K dn. workable, Contact 
Ken Rivers ol Spill Invest. 602—837 4306. 
Evenings 602-307-5946. 


Atlanta to Chattanooga ADI 
UHF C.P, sell or lease. Reply 


to: 4724 Maple Brook SE, 
Marletta, GA 30067. Serious | 
reply only. | 


Towns. 
* Cable system in southcentral PA. 9,300 subscribers. 
Ask for Jm Dick. 
ЖАМ МВ including Clase Cs, TVs, cableard CP, Cat 
10 got on our mailing fet. 
‘Broadcast Communications Bibision 
E BUSINESS BROKER ASSOCIATES 
615-756-7635 — 24 Hours 


fimm =т= wan Om HTN 


CALIFORNIA COMBO 
Under-priced at $4.7 million/cash 
THE MONTCALM CORPORATION 
311 Norton Bldg. 

801 Second Ave. 

Seattle, WA 98104 
206. 622.6236 


$70,000, NO DOWN PAYMENT 
Buys you fulltime AM in southem Virgin- 
ia. You'll need $25,000 for working capi- 
tal and to repair equipment damaged in 
natural disaster which we failed О insure 
for. Contact: Box A-69. 


Eroadcatng Nov 23 1967 
an 


+ CHICAGO! CHICAGO! ` 
Your kind oftöwn! The Sid Markel! 

nly station in county. | 

750,000. 4,100,000 in coverage. 

Od of a kind situation. Askirg 


v 2:8 $1,750,000 савћі 


eo SIS 

AM BIRMINGHAM МАТ. $125,000 
AM N. FLORIDA $165,000 
AM CENT. FLORIDA $650,000 
3AMS SOUTHEAST $1,650,000 
АМЕМ COASTAL FLA $895,000 


DOYLE HADDEN 305—365-7832 


BROADCASTING'S 
CLASSIFIED RATES 


Al orders to lace classitied ads &all correspondence 
pertaining le this section should be sent lo; BROAD- 
CASTING. Classied Deparment. 1705 DeSales Si. 
NW. Washington, DC 20036, 


Payable In advance. Check. or monay order only Full 
^& correct payment MUST accompany ALL orders. AN 
orders must be in ting, 


Deadline is Monday at noon Eastern Time for the iol- 
lowing Monday’ issue. Earker deadines apoy tor is: 
sues pubished during a week containing a legal hoii- 
day and a special notice announcing the earier 
deadline willbe published above this ratecard. Orders, 
‘changes, and/or cancellations must be submited in 
wring. NO TELEPHONE ORDERS, CHANGES, AND/ 
OR CANCELLATIONS WILL BE ACCEFTED. 


When placing an ac, indicate ne EXACT category de- 
sited: Television, Padiocr Alied Fields; Heip Wanler or 
Stuations varied: Management. Sales News. eic. i 
Tis intonation is omia, we wili determine 'neanpro- 
priate category according to the copy NO make goods 
willbe runi allirformalion is not included. Ne personal 
ads. 


Rates: Classified listings (ron-cheplay).Per issue: Help 
Wanted: $1.00 per word, $18.00 weekly minimum Stu 
ations Wanted : BO¢ per word, $9.00 weekly minimum. 
Al other classifications: $1.10 per word, $18.00 weekiy 
minimum. 

Rates: Classiied display (minimum 1 inch, upward in 
hal inch increments). per issue: Нер Wanted: 580 per. 
inen Stuations Мапс: $50 per inen. A omer class 
tations: 3100 per inch. For Saee Statons. Wanted To 
Buy Stations, Public Notice & Business Opponunines. 
advenlsing require display space. Agency commis- 
sion only on берау space 


Blind Box Service: (In addition Ю basic advertising 
casts] Situations Wanted: $4.00 per issue. All other 
classiications: $7.00 per issue, The charge for the 
bling box service applies то advertisers running listings 
and display ads Each advertisement must have a sep 
arate box number. BROADCASTING will no! forward 
apes, колеса, Samples, or cher oversized 
materiais: such materiais are retumed to sender. 


Raples o ads with Blind Box umbers should be ad- 
‘dressed (Воз number), СО BROADCASTING, 1705 
DeSales St.. N.W, Washington. DC 20036, 


Word count: Count each abbreviation, intial, single 
figure or group о! figures or етен as one word васп, 
Symbols such as 35mm, COD. FD. etc. count as one 
‘wore each, Prone number wit area code or zio code 
‘count as ane word each, 


The publisher is not responsible for errors in printing 
due io lege copy—al copy must be clear typed or 
Printed. Any ard al emos must be reported io the 
Classiied acverising department within 7 days o! pub. 
lication date. No credis or make goods wil be made 
‘on errors which do not materially afect the adverts: 
mert 


Publisher reserves the iig 10 aher classllisd copy 10 
‘conform wih re provisions оГ Tie Vilot ine Civi Rights. 
Aci of 1964, as amended. Publisher reserves the ight 
10 abbeeviaie ll, or reject any copy. 


R‏ ڪل 


Fortuness 


= 
Media 
Paul Raymon, VP and general manager, 


Gillett Communications of Atlanta, 
named president. 


Allan E. Howard, VP and general manag- 
er, KXTV(TV) Sacramento, Calif., joins 
KHOU-TV Houston as president and gen- 
eral manager. 


Keller 


Howard 


Phillip J. Keller, president and general 
manager, KOTV(TV) Tulsa, Okla., joins 
KXTV(TV) Sacramento, Calif., as presi- 
dent and general manager. 


Robert Helmers, station manager, WOI- 
TV Ames, lowa, named president and 
general manager. 


Richard F. Appleton, senior VP-televi- 
sion, Price Communications Corp.. 
group owner of television and radio sta- 
tions, New York, named executive VP- 
broadcasting. 

Harry P. Cushing, executive VP and gen- 
eral manager, Telesat Cablevision Inc., 
Pompano Beach, Fla., named president. 


Peg Kelly, general sales manager, 
WNBC(AM) New York, named VP-gener- 
al manager. 


John F. Berentson, president, Televi- 
sionary Consulting Group, New York, 
joins Financial News Network, New 
York, as senior VP, retail enterprises. 
Skip Moss, general manager, WCAY-TV 
Nashville, joins wcixirv) Miami, as VP 
and general manager. 


Michael J. Fiorile, VP and general manag- 
er, WEYLTV Flint-Saginaw-Bay 
Mich., joins WLOS(TV) Asheville. N.C., 
in same capacity. 


Scott Bacherman, VP, TM Communica- 
tons Library Division, provider of 
broadcast service for radio and TV, Dal- 
las, joins WLKW-FM Providence, R.L., as 
VP and general manager. Jeff Salkin, ac- 
Count executive, WLKW-FM, named gen- 
eral sales manager. 

Dan Wastler, general sales manager, 
KFKF-AM-FM Kansas City, named VP- 
general manager. 


Bob Lima, opcrations manager, 
WVMTIAMYWQIDIFM) Biloxi, Miss., joins 
WMPO-AM-FM Orlando, Fla., as VP and 
general manager. 

Andy Lee, station manager, KVUE-TV 
Austin, Tex., joins WTVG Inc., Toledo, 
Ohio, as VP and manager. 


Richard W. Linford, director of analysis 
and special projects, Bonneville Interna- 
tional Corp., broadcast group with 14 
radio and television stations, Salt Lake 
City, named VP for analysis and special 
projects. 

Appointments at Daniels & Associates 
inc., Denver: Jack Bradshaw, general 
manager, Gainesville (Fla.) Cablevision, 
to Greeley (Colo.) Cablevision in same 
capacity and Vicki Bates, general manag- 
er, East Suburban Cablevision. Hous- 
ton, to system manager, Kona-Kohala 
Cablevision, Kailua-Kona, Hawaii. 


Larry S. DuBois, account executive, 
KWOD(FM) Sacramento, Calif., joins On- 
Fone Marketing-Erik St. John and Asso- 
ciates there as director of operations. 


Dave Block, production manager, KRMD- 
AM-FM Shreveport, La., named opera- 
tions manager. 


Johnathon Lichter, media researcher and 
lanner, Vitt Media, New York, joins 

Kelly, Scott and Madison Inc., Chicago- 

based national media management firm, 

as media planner. 

Doris Saloom, secretary to president, 


WKBN-AM-FM Youngstown, Ohio, 
named assistant to president. 


MSS ET 
Marketing 


Appointments from Ayer, New York, to 
Ayer USA, newly formed entity, New 
York: Jerry J. Siano, chairman, to same 


capacity; Patrick J. Cunningham, execu- 
tive VP and creative director, to chief 
creative officer; David H. Means, execu- 
tive VP and manager, allied services, to 
managing director of national opera- 
tions; Stanley B. Mattison, senior VP and 
director of business development, to di- 
rector of administration. He is replaced 
by Robert Catlin, former senior VP and 
executive account director; Anthony C. 
Chevins, vice-chairman, retires. 


Don H. Rimsky, VP, Young & Rubicam, 
New York, named assistant to CEO. 


John Putney, management supervisor, 
Tracy Locke, Denver-based ad agency, 
named senior VP and senior тапа; 
ment representative; Cindy Hughes, VP, 
account supervisor, named VP, manage- 
ment supervisor. 


Neil Bishkin, senior manager, audit de- 
artment, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & 
e. Houston, Joins Metro Traffic Con- 
trol Inc., Houston-based traffic report- 
ing program service, as VP-controller. 


Walter K. Gilbride, president, Crowley 
Broadcasting Inc., Fort Lauderdale, 
Fla., forms Walter K. Gilbride & Asso- 
ciates, television and syndication mar- 
keting company, Lexington, Mass. 


Ciaude Dolese, local 
sales manager, 
KRMD-AM-FM 
Shreveport, La., 
named general sales 
manager. 


Craig Dubow, local 
and national sales 
manager, KUSA-TV 
Denver, joins 
KVUE-TV Austin 
Tex., as general 
sales manager. 


Dolese 


lan Brookbanks, VP account director, 
HDM Dawson Johns & Black, Chicago. 
named senior VP-management director. 


Robert Friedman, V P-marketing and pro- 


840W. 


The Most Experienced 
Executive Search Firm [n Broadcasting. 


Joe Sullivan & A 
, Executive Search and Recruitment 


The person you describe 


xc iates, Inc 


7th 5t., New York, NY 10019 


on we'll deliver. 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


motional development, Music Televi- 
sion Network, New York, named senior 
VP, marketing and promotion. 


Susan Boone, local sales manager, 
WKBN(AM) Youngstown, Ohio, named 
general sales manager, WKBN-AM-FM 


Tom Raponi, local sales manager, KCNC- 
ту Denver, joins wNYI(TV) Albany, 
N.Y., as director of sales. 


Appointments at Viacom Cablevision, 
Pleasanton, Calif.: Tom DeMarinis, mar- 
keting manager, Viacom Cablevision of 
Long Island, named director of market- 
ing; Mark Gershman, commercial mar- 
keting manager, Cox Cable South Caro- 
lina, Myrtle Beach, S.C., to commercial 
marketing manager, Viacom Cablevi- 
sion of Marin. 


Meredith Breitbarth, marketing manager, 
Viacom Network Enterprises, New 
York, to director of marketing, Viacom 
Satellite Networks, home TVRO mar- 
keting unit of Showtime-The Movie 
Channel, New York; Rosie Pisani, man- 

er, promotion, Showtime-The Movie 
Channel, New York, named director, 
marketing campaigns. 


Patricia McGarvey, marketing coordina- 
tor, Prism, Bala Cynwyd, Pa., named 
marketing administrator; Daniel Ron- 
ayne, sales representative, Pinkert De- 
troit Steel Co., Detroit, joins Prism as 
affiliate marketing manager. 


Leni Salz, local broadcast buyer, RJR 
Nabisco, New York, joins Lintas:New 
York as media director of local broad- 
cast. 


Lynne Scheurer Rish, marketing and 
promotions manager, Telemundo Group 
Inc., New York, named manager of mar- 
keting affairs. 


John A. McGuigan, 
VP, project group 
director, Ad- 
vanswers Media- 
Programing Inc., 
Si. Louis, joins 
McConnaughy Bar- 
occi Brown as di- 
rector of media 
services. 

Mel Diamond, ad- 
vertising sales man- 
ager, Satellite Mu- 
sic Network, Dallas, named director of 
special projects. He is succeeded by Ba 
bara Crooks, former executive VP, rai 
Tep division, John Blair & Co., New 
York. 


Rick Thomas, account executive, CBS 
Radio Representatives, New York, joins 
WBZ(AM) Boston as local sales manager. 


Dan Gorby, general sales manager, 
WKSKFM) Greensboro, N.C., joins 
WMYI(FM) Hendersonville, N.C., as lo- 
cal sales manager. 


Bill Pullium, national sales manager, 
KTXL(TV) Sacramento, Calif., named lo- 
cal sales manager; Jerry Martin, account 
executive, Petry Television, New York, 
joins KTXL as national sales manager. 


McGuigan 


John R. lannuzzi, account executive, 
WMGN-TY Wildwood, N.J., named local 
sales manager. 


Pattie Kelly, former sales manager, 
KTTY(TV) and KJQY(FM) San Diego, joins 
KROY(FM) Sacramento, Calif., as sales 
manager. 


Eric M. Ibara, manager in manufacturing 
consulting group, Price Waterhouse, 
Los Angeles, joins Disney Channel, 
Burbank, Calif., as manager, sales anal- 
ysis. 

Appointments at Katz American Televi- 
sion, New York: Russ White, VP, na- 
tional sales manager, adds duties as New 
York office manager; Swain Weiner, 
New York team manager, named nation- 
al sales manager, succeeded by Jona- 
than Smith, former sales executive; Har- 
ty Stinson, sales executive, Atlanta to 
sales manager, Atlanta. 


Mary Peiser, account executive, MMT 
Sales, New York, joins KRRT(TV) San 
Antonio, Tex., as national sales manag- 
er. 

Jill Vedder, assistant division manager- 
advertising coordinator-wholesale, 
United Dairy Farmers, Cincinnati, joins 
W.B. Doner and Co., Detroit, as senior 
account executive. 


Marie Lequillow, benefits manager, 
Chock Full o’Nuts Corp., New York, 
joins Katz Communications Inc, there in 
same capacity. 


Monica Tedori, account executive, KOIT- 
AM-FM San Francisco, joins KGO(AM) 
there in same capacity 


Appointments at KAUT(TV) Oklahoma 
City: Lynn Bush, account executive 
KKLR-FM Oklahoma City; John Poff, ac- 
count executive, KLBK-TV Lubbuck, 
Tex., and Bill Perry, account executive, 
KTEN(TV) Ada, Okla., joins KAUT(TV) in 
same capacity. Dwayne Helt, account ex- 
ecutive, КАОТІТУ), named developmen- 
tal sales manager. 


Jennifer B. Scott, account executive, 
WINK-TV Fort Myers, Fla., joins 
wFTX(TV) Cape Coral, Fla., in same ca- 
pacity; Susan Hargreaves, account ex- 
ccutive, wrTv(Tv) Bloomington, Ind., 
joins WFTX in same capacity. 


Jan Moppert, marketing and public rela- 
lions manager, Water Town USA, water 
theme park, Shreveport, La., joins 
Cranford Johnson Robinson Associates, 
Little Rock, Ark., as account executive; 
Claire Nicholson, graduate, Louisiana 
State university, Shreveport, La., joins 
Cranford as account coordinator. 


1 
Programing 


Barry A. Brune, group VP in charge of 
North American franchise support, Mi- 
croAge Computer Stores Inc., Tempe, 
Ariz., joins Tempo Enterprises Inc., di- 
versified media company based in Tulsa, 
Okla., as president and chief operating 
officer. 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 


Tom Cuddy, program director and opera- 
tions manager, WPRO-AM-FM Provi- 
dence, R.1., joins ABC Radio Network, 
New York, as VP, entertainment pro- 
graming. 

Ginny Overbagh, VP-western opera- 
tions, American Television and Commu- 
nications Corp. (ATC), Denver, joins 
The Disney Channel, Burbank, Cali 
VP-western region; Susan Stitt, senior 
consultant, Arthur Andersen and Co., 
Costa Mesa, Calif., joins Disney as man- 
ager, business systems. 


Cuddy Overbagh 
Rachel Perkoff, gen- 
eral manager, Glob- 
al Satellite Net- 
work, Los Angeles, 
named VP-general 
manager. 


Alan Letz, director 
of home video and 
pay telcvision, Har- 
mony Gold. Los 
Angeles, named VP. 
of home video and 
pay television. 


Bill Mechanic, senior VP, video, Walt 
Disney Pictures, Burbank, Calif., 
named president of International Theat- 
rical Distribution and Worldwide Video, 
succeeding Harry Archinal, who retires. 


Robert D. Fead, president, Pacific Arts 
Video, Los Angeles, joins Famous Mu- 
sic Publishing Companies, unit of Gulf & 
Western's Paramount Pictures Corp., 
Hollywood, Calif, as president and 
chicf operating officer. 

W, Robert Rich, founder and executive 
VP, Screenvision Cinema Network, 
New York, resigns. 


Richard W. Dalbeck, VP-finance, merg- 
ers and acquisitions, Thrifly Corp., sub- 
sidiary of Pacific Lighting Co., Los An- 
geles, joins Lorimar Telepictures Corp., 
Culver City, Calif., as executive VP and 
chief financial officer; Morton Dean, an- 
chor, Independent Network News 
(INN), New York, signed to co-host 
"TV Guide,” syndicated show sched 
uled to debut next September, Los An- 
geles. 


Christopher Gordon, salesperson, D.L. 
Taffner Ltd., New York, joins Palladi- 
um Television Distribution, New York, 
as executive VP. 

Carlos Barba, VP-programing and pro- 
motion, Telemundo Group Inc., New 


York, named senior VP-programing and 
promotion. 


Jared Jussim, VP, studio legal affairs, 
Columbia Pictures, New York, named 
senior VP, studio legal affairs. 


Paul D. Beckham, VP of administration, 
Turner Broadcasting System Inc., At- 
lanta, named senior VP-finance and ad- 
ministration. 


Larry J. Dieckhaus, Midwest publicity 
and promotion director, 20th Century 
Fox, Chicago, joins Buena Vista Televi- 
sion's Siskel & Ebert, Los Angeles, as ex- 
ecutive producer. 


Gae Morris, executive producer for Arti- 
tudes, Lifetime Cablevision Network, 
New York, named executive pro- 
ducer; Nene Litvak, freelance producer, 
director, writer, named manager, on-air 
promotion. 


Frank De Rose, senior producer, on-air 
promotion, USA Network, New York, 
named manager, on-air promotion; Chris 
Gross, writer-producer, named senior 
producer. 


Marc Wallace, freclance producer- 
tor, Showtime-The Movie Channel, 
New York, named senior producer- 
rector; Tom Neville, director, named VP, 
research and planning, Viewer's 
Choice, subsidiary of Showtime. 


Ray Randall, program director, 
KEBC(FM) Oklahoma City, joins KRMD- 
AM-FM in same capacity. 


Tom Hooker, communications group 
manager, Spectradyne Inc., supplier of 
in-room video services to lodging indus- 
try, Dallas, named director of product 
development; Ralph Carabetta, manager 
of scheduling, to director of pay-per- 
view programing, 

Mark Lapidus, operations manager, 
WMIR(FM) Warrenton, Va., named pro- 
gram director. 


Ellen Weinberg, affiliate marketing man- 
ager, Prism, Bala Cynwyd, Pa., named 
product manager. 

Genevieve M. Piturro, manager of promo- 
tion and publicity, All American Televi- 
sion Inc., New York, named director of 
creative services. 


Jim Humphries, regional director, Hit 
Video, Houston, joins The Weather 
Channel, Atlanta; as West Coast region- 
al manager. 


Brock Kruzic and Chris Lancey, account 
executives, Group W Productions, Los 
Angeles, named central division manag- 
ers. 


Rich Lewy, promotion coordinator, Ohio 
University's Telecommunications Cen- 
ter, Athens, Ohio. named membership 
manager, New Hampshire Public Tele- 
vision, Durham, N.H. 


Mike White, freelance cameraman, Jack- 
sonville, Fla., joins Video Tape Asso- 
ciales, Atlanta, as director-cameraman 
for business communications staff. 


= 
News and Public Affairs 


Av Westin, VP of program development, 
ABC News, Washington, named head of 
new unit responsible for all prime time. 
long-form programing including Closeup 
documentaries and The Jennings-Koppel 
Report. 


Richard Klos, producer, WXFL(TV) Tam- 
pa, joins WDEF-TV Chattanooga, as news 
director. 


Charlie Davis, morning news anchor, 
WXTC(AM) Charleston, S.C., named 
news director, WXTC-AM-FM. 


Robin Neal Kaler, news reporter, WDWS- 
AM-FM Champaign, Ill., named news di- 
rector. 


Appointments at KTVO(TV) Kirksville, 
Mo.: Suzanne Hudson, graduate, DePaul 
University, Chicago, joins KTVO as bu- 
reau chief; Bill Masure, reporter, KOMU- 
tv Columbia, Mo., to same position; 
Max Varger, graduate, Indiana Universi- 
ty, Bloomington, Ind., to reporter, 
Quincy, Ill; Kristen Lewis, reporter, 
Komu-tv Columbia, Mo., to bureau 
chief, Ottumwa, lowa; Ken Fields, rc- 
porter, KOMU-TY Columbia, Mo., to re- 
porter; Lisa Olliges, graduate, Linden- 
wood College, St. Charles, Mo., to 
weekend anchor; Chris Hunt, reporter, 
WGEM.Tv Quincy, Ш., to assignment 
editor; Kurt Sweeney, reporter, to news 
director. 


Broadcasting 
The Newsweekly of the Fifth Estate 


Wendell Goler, cor- 
respondent, drive- 
time anchor and 
producer, AP Net- 
work News, Wash- 
ington, to White 
House correspon- 
dent. 


Sandy Rivera, morn- 
ing news anchor and 
co-host of Weekend 
Closeup, 
KHOU-TV Houston, 
adds duties as host, AM Houston; Ste- 
hen Ruppe, news director, KATC(TV) 
aFayette, La., joins KHOU-TV as week- 
end assignment editor. 
Timothy Smalls, reporter, Alikar News 
Service, Philadelphia, joins. WBAKFM) 
New York, as anchor-reporter. 


Karen Marinella, ncws director and co- 
anchor, Cape Cod Communications, 
South Yarmouth, Mass., joins WMTM-TV 
Auburn, Maine, as reporter and week- 
end co-anchor. 


Sue Parcell, anchor, WDAF-Tv Kansas 
City, Mo., joins WTOL-Tv Toledo, Ohio, 
as co-anchor 6 p.m. and 11 p.m. news. 


Mark Strehl, chief meteorologist, KMTR- 
TV Eugene, Ore., joins WCCO-TV Minne- 
apolis as weekend meteorologist. 
Marlene Sanders, anchor, Newsbreak, 
CBS Television Network, New York, 
joins Modern Maturity Television, 
Washington, as Washington special cor- 
respondent. 


1705 DeSales St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036-4480 


Please send (Check appropriate box) 
C] Broadcasting * Magazine 
03 years $190 


0 2 years $135 


o1 year $70 0 6 mos. $35 


(International subscribers add $20 per year) 


О Broadcasting Cablecasting Yearbook 1987 


The compiete guide to radio, TV cable and satellite facts and figures—$105. 
(if payment with order $90) Billable orders mus! be accompanied by com- 
pany business card or company purchase order. Off press March 1987. 

Please give street address for UPS delivery 

To order by MASTERCARD, VISA or CHOICE credit cards. phone (ol пее B00-633-SUBS 


Name D Payment enclosed 
D Bill me 
Home? Yes) NoD 


Zip. 


Company 
Address 
City 


Type of Business. 


State. 
Title/Position 


Signature Are you in cable TV operations C. Yes 


(required) 


г--- 


For renewal or address change 
place most recent label here 


centage from 82.3% to 82.3%. 


next move in due course.” 


12.9 million over four weeks, Sky sald. 


Sky goodbye. Rupert Murdoch's European satellite service Sky Channel has lost its long- 
time head, Patrick Cox, who resigned to pursue other, unidentified, interests. 

Cox, deputy chairman and chief executive officer of the five-year-old service, will stay 
| оп until the end cf the year, according to representative 
| Director Jim Styles will continue running day-to-day operations as he has since taking 
| over the position trom Cox last September, while the channel considers a management 
restructuring to absorb Cox's responsibilities, 

The departure comes shortly after Murdoch's News International moved to quash 
| rumors of an imminent sale of its controlling interest in Sky parent Satellite Television Pic, 
by a new rights issue last month to raise approximately $40 millon for the channel's 
budget through the end of 1988. The issue raised News International's controlling per- 


Cox said in a prepared statement: "The pioneering role o! Sky Is now almost complete 
and it is time for me to move on to other areas of European broadcasting. | will ce | 
examining a number of such opportunities in the coming weeks and will announce my 


According to Sky's latest figures, the channel, which four years ago reached just 
400,000 homes in Norway, Finland and Switzerland, now reaches 10,576,774 homes via 
2,776 cable and SMATV networks in 19 countries. Thal total is а 37% increase over Sky's 
universe since the beginning of the year, when the channel reached 7.7 million homes. 
Recent audience research shows thal 9.6 million people view the channel every week. | 


wl 


па Waters. Sky Managing. 


Karin Pratt, associate producer, Face the 
Nation, CBS Television Net- 
work, Washington, named producer. 


David Duitch, newswriter, WNBC-TV New 
York, joins wKYC-TV Cleveland as exec- 
utive producer, news broadcasts. 


Kathy Matz, producer of 11 p.m. news, 
WwFLD(TV) Chicago, named managing 
editor, 7 p.m. news. 

Appointments at WUSA(TV) Washington: 
Barbara Cox, producer, KOCO-TV Okla- 
homa City, to producer six p.m. news; 
Paul Malkie, producer, 6 p.m. news, to 
executive producer, I] p.m. news; Dana 
Rudman, assignment editor, WRC-TV 
Washington, joins WUSA in same capac- 
ity. 

David Ewing, editing supervisor for 
NBC's Today, Washington, named tape 
editor for West 57th 

Bill Flanagan, business reporter, KDKA- 
TY Pittsburgh, to general assignment re- 
porter. 

Appointments at Associated Press, New 
York: Marc Rapport, day supervisor, De- 
troit, named news editor for South Caro- 
lina, based in Columbia; Rose Ann Rob- 
ertson, national editor, to Nebraska 
news editor, based in Omaha; Kristi Um- 
breit, newsperson based in Knoxville, to 
correspondent in charge of Knoxville 
bureau. 

Paul Irvin, hazardous-materials special- 
ist, Washington fire department, joins 
WRC-TV Washington as assignment edi- 
tor. 


áÁ‏ ی 
Technology‏ 


Joseph F. Swyt, president, Sierracin 
Corp., Los Angeles-based computer 
software company, joins Chaparral 
Communications Inc., San Jose, Calif.- 
based manufacturer of satellite TV 
equipment, as president and chief oper- 


ating officer. 


Appointments at Burnup & Sims Inc., 
Fort Lauderdale. Fla.: Edward L. Grant, 
VP-business development to senior VP; 
Margie M. Madden, corporate secretary, 
adds title of VP; Linda Rine, assistant VP 
to VP-insurance; Linda Terlecki, office 
manager, to assistant VP-office manag- 
er. 


F. Thomas Kull Jr., director of operating 
service group's computer facility and 
Charles F. Russel, engineering director, 
Dow Jones & Co., New York, named 
VP's of operating services group. 


David Bower, salesman, Sony Broad- 
cast, New York, joins Dynamic Tech- 
nology Ltd., London, as general sales 
manager. 


Kevin Cronin, graduate, Southern Illinois 
University, Carbondale, Ill., joins WIFR- 
TV Rockford, Ill., as master control op- 
erator. 


David Felland, broadcast operations 
manager, Twin Cities Public Televi- 
Sion's КТСА-ТУ and KTCI.Tv Minneapo- 
lis-St. Paul, joins wMVS(TV) and 
WMYT(TY) Milwaukee as manager of 
broadcast engineering services. 


James Gracie, engineering manager, 
PECA Inc., Bensalem, Pa., joins Prism, 
Bala Cynwyd, Pa., as director of trans- 
mission. 


Joe Engle, national 
Sales manager of RF 
Products. NEC 
America, Wood 
Dale, Ш., named di- 
rector of sales, 
broadcast equip- 
ment division. 


Sheila Holmes- 
Ross, director for 
North American 
Sales, Vertigo 
Corp. of Vancou- 
ver, B.C., joins Digital F/X as regional 
manager for sales. 


Engle 


Broadcasting Nev 23 1967 


ا 
Promotion and PR‏ 


Mary Debus, VP, Doremus Porter No- 
velli, Washington, named senior VP. 
Cynthia Beerbohm, senior media plan- 
ner, McCann-Erickson, Detroit, named 
senior media planner; Nancy Barber, 
freclance consultant, Lasting Impres- 
Sions, Royal Oak, Mich., joins McCann 
as media supervisor. 


Richard Elliot Hammer, director of cre- 
alive services, Coca-Cola Telecom- 
munications, Burbank, Calif., joins The 
Lippin Group, Los Angeles, as senior 
account supervisor. 

Kelly Sullivan, promotions director, 
Northwestern University, Chicago, 
joins Sportsvision, Oak Tay DIS as 
public relations director 


Suzanne M. Tavani, public relations man- 
ager, Meritor Financial Group, Philadei- 
phia, joins Lewis, Gilman & Kynett 
Inc., Philadelphia, as public relations ac- 
count executive 


Bruce M. Binenfeld, 
promotion manag- 
er. WDZL(TV) Mi- 
ami. joins KPTM(TV) 
Omaha in same ca- 
pacity. 

Kelley Davis, free- 
lance public rela- 
tions specialist, 
joins wKBD-Tv De- 
troit as public rela- 
tions-promotion co- 
ordinator. 


Yvette E. Fisher, account executive, 
HDM Dawson Johns & Black, Chicago, 
named account executive 


Binenfeld 


mama, 
Deaths 


Myron Drake, 71, Arizona newscaster, 
died from complications from cancer 
surgery Nov. 5 at his home in Phoenix. 
Except for three-year hiatus with.KPHO- 
Tv Clinton, Ariz., and КЕМ) Phoenix 
Drake worked for KTAR(AM) Phoenix 
from 1938 until he died. He served as 
news director from 1961 to 1964 and 
from 1956 to 1970 also worked tor KTAR- 
TV, now KPNX-TV Mesa, Ariz, Drake 
then worked as on-air news anchor for 
KTAR(AM) until his death. Survivors in- 
clude his wife, Camille, and two sons. 


Nellie A. Parsons, 71, retired executive 
secretary, KROD-Tv El Paso, died at El 
Paso's Sierra Medical Center Oct, 15 af- 
ter a brief bout with lung cancer. Begin- 
ning with EL Paso's KEPO(AM) (now 
KHEY) in 1935, she went to KTSM(AM) El 
Paso and in 1955 joined KROD-TY (now 
KDBCITV]) El Paso, retiring in 1985. Dur- 
ing her 50 years of broadcasting, she 
served as copywriter, traffic manager 
and executive secretary. 


FfthaEstoter 


Ampex's Kennedy: 
Keeping a step ahead 


As director of long-range planning for 
Ampex's recording systems, M. Carlos 
Kennedy claims no crystal ball. But he 
does describe his job as an exercise in 
studying and shaping the future—to an- 
ticipate what technologies will be devel- 
oping, and what others might need to be 
developed, over the next three-to-five 
years and decide what directions Ampex 
should take to market a successful prod- 
uct and maintain the company’s industry 
position. “Carlos has played a key role 
in the television industry during his ca- 
reer,” says Ampex Chairman Charles 
A. Steinberg. 

Kennedy specializes in videotape re- 
cording reseurch, which is now center- 
ing on digital recording—what he calls 
“the wave of the future." At some dis- 
tant point, Kennedy expects Ampex’s 
development of an all-digital broadcast 
facility, including digital small formats, 
to replace the now-dominant Betacam 
SP made by Sony and Panasonic's MII. 
In the meantime, Ampex is also working 
on the perfection of analog technology. 

High-definition video technology is a 
little further away, “but it is also some- 
thing to keep in mind," Kennedy says. 
He agrees with the Ampex position that 
while HDTV productions are now a real- 
ity, it is still too early to plan equipment 
troductions for broadcast applica- 
tions. *"Technically, we'd love to be in 
that business. It’s just a question of 
when is the right commercial time for 
Ampex,” he says. 

Part of Kennedy’s job is taken up by 
traveling the world to equipment demon- 
strations and exhibitions. meeting Am- 
Pex Customers to determine their tech- 
nological wants and needs. Another part 
is technical committee meetings. Ken- 
nedy is actively involved in national and 
international standard-setting огеш 
tions such as the Advanced Television 
Systems Committee, the International 
Electrotechnical Commission and the 
European Broadcasting Union. In Janu- 
ary he will begin the second half of a 
two-year term as president of the Socie- 
ty of Motion Picture and Television En- 
gineers. 

Along with his world traveling for Am- 
pex, Kennedy has logged thousands of 
air miles on behalf of SMPTE. In the last 
year he has been part of delegations to 
Japan, Holland, the United Kingdom, 
Switzerland, Korea, the People’s Re- 
public of China and the Soviet Union, 
among othei 

SMPTE is important to the extent that 
contributing to the melding of the 
TV and motion picture industries, he 


M. Cantos Kenteoy—director, long-range 
planning, recording systems division, 
Ampex Corp., Redwood City, Calif, and 
president, Sociely of Motion Picture and 
Television Engineers; b. Nov. 10, 1928, 
Huntington, ind; BS, electrical engineering, 
Purdue University, West Lafayette, Ind., 
1952; electrical engineer. Eastman Kodak 
Co. Rochester, N.Y., 1952-56; television 
Camera design engineer, ITT Corp., Fort 
Wayne. Ind., and San Fernando, Calit., 
1956-58; senior design engineer and later 
VP. engineering, Dage Corp.. Michigan 
City, Ind., 1958-68; manager, camera and 
systems engineering, Ampex Corp., Elk 
Grove Village, ill., 1968-69; product 
manager. Instavideo line, Ampex, Mount 
View, Calif, 1969-1972; senior product 
manager, industrial video products, Ampex, 
Redwood City, 1972-73; long-range product 
Planner, industrial video and professional 
audio products, 1973-75; present position 
since 1975; m. Frances Wood, Jan. 26, 
1952; children: Karla Kay, 34; Marlin 
Charles, 31; Kerri Kim, 29. 


says. It’s no longer “we and they, it's 
us. And I think in large part that SMPTE 
on the technology side has made that 
possible.” 

SMPTE's standards activities, he 
says, are of central importance to broad- 
casting because “the standards we are 
g on literally become world stan- 
." Much of the society's influence 
can be traced to its egalitarian attitude, 
he says, contrasting it with one of its 
counterparts, the EBU, which is made 
up of broadcasters only, with manufac- 
turers attending meetings by invitation. 
“In our case," Kennedy says, "all 
members, whether they're users, manu- 
facturers or just interested technically 
knowledgeable people are all equal... We 
offer the platform for standardization 
and that effort is international in scope." 

Kennedy’s first job out of Purdue Uni- 
versity, where he earned an electrical 


Broadcasteg Nov 23 1967 
as, 


engineering degree in 1952, was as an 
industrial engineer for Eastman Kodak. 
But he soon decided to transfer into the 
company's electronics lab, where one of. 
the projects was the development of TV 
cameras to be fitted on some of the first 
supersonic bombers. where I 
first got my interest in television," he 
says. But at that time, he adds, Kodak 
was a conservative company um g 
to make a major expansion into electron- 
ics and “as a young engineer, I wanted 
to go out and be more aggressive in the 
electronics field." So he joined ITT in 
1956, where he designed industrial TV 
cameras. 

According to Steinberg, Kennedy 
“was one of the first to envision the role 
of helical recording in the home and he 
was instrumental in a lot of the work that 
resulted in the one-inch helical recording 
television standard." (Helical scan tech- 
nology is the practice of recording video 
information diagonally onto tape on ad- 
jacent tracks and is the basis of all mod- 
ern video cassette formats.) Kennedy’s 
first work in one-inch, helical develop- 
ment began in [963 while he was an ex- 
ecutive with the Dage Corp. At that time 
he led efforts to develop an industrial 
helical standard through SMPTE. That 
early attempt failed, “Ъш was the fore- 
runner of the committees that ultimately 
standardized the Type C format," he 
says. 

Kennedy joined Ampex in 1968, where 
he became involved in the development 
of its Instavideo helical recorder and the 
Туре A industrial recorder. "There was 
always the belief by a number of people 
at Ampex, although for a long time they 
were in the minority, that helical record. 
g had a role to play in the broadcast 
industry,” he says. That minority was 
opposed by engineers who felt that tape 
only half the width of then-dominant 
quad tapes would not be adequate. “The 
fecling by some of our experts was that 
helical tracks were so much narrower 
than quads." he says, that recording 
“would be difficult to do on a qua 
level that made sense." But the tide 
turned with the invention of automatic 
track scanning, which made it possible 
even while playing a poorly made mag- 
netic tape, "to play it back by having the 
head [of the VTR] follow the imperfect 
tracks. That probably was the most im- 
portant factor that turned Ampex t 
ward helical recording in a major way. 
he says. 

There are equally 
facing those working t 
videotape technology, Kennedy says. 
Those issues “will be a continual chal- 
lenge for the design engineers as we 
evolve into the digital, small-format 
era." 


NBC President Robert Wright has been holding ongoing business 
discussions with Ted Turner on possible co-ventures, as press re- 
poris had it last week, bul network also has had similar talks v 
other cable industry companies as pcr! of its continuing interes! in 
cable, according to NBC's Thomas Rogers, VP. policy planning and 
business development. Rogers said company is looking at participa- 
tion with broad number of services, both existing and others not ун 
formed, using NBC programing in news/information, sports ond en- 
terlainment. Rogers declined to name cable services involved in 
talks, but acknowledged "synergies" between Turner and NBC, par. 
ticularly in TV news business, where NEC is locking to amortize huge 
cos! structure that outstrips current ability lo air news product. lí there 
are new elements in talks with Turner, Rogers said they likely origi- 
nated with Tumer's search for ways to pay pending debt fees. 
в 

National Cable Television Association board, meeting in Le 
Quinta, Calif. last week, voted to increase its operating budget by 
16% for fiscal year 1988-—from $7.5 million to $8.7 million. Extra $1.2 
million will come mostly from dues generated by upgrade of two 
programing associate memberships to full memberships and addi- 
tion of four progromer memberships at board meeting in September. 
Much of $1.2-million increase is expected to go into NCTA's progra: 
ing promotion and public relations efforts. NCTA also formed blue- 
ribbon committee to explore possibility of industry-supporied re- 
search-and-development ейог to advance cable technology. Select 
ed lo head committee was TCI President John Malone. Board also 
took step to limit influence of any one entity. Under new bylaws 
adopted by board, entity may own (59% or тоге) or control manag 
ment of no more thon three companies represented on board. TC's 
hegemony now extends over four seats: its own (Malone), and those 
of Heritage Communications (NCTA Chairman James Cownie); Unit 
ed Artists Communications (Marvin Jones) and Bresnan Communic 
tions (William Bresnan). But all current board members are grand 
fathered until end of their terms. Board voted to oppose bill intro. 
duced by House Telecommunications Subcommittee member John 
Bryant (D-Tex.) that would empower cities to settle cable channel 
repositioning disputes. Ii also decided to locn Wisconsin Cable Asso- 
ciation $15,000 to cover bills incurred in йз successlul campaign to 
persuade state public utility commission to allow cable systems in 
slate to coller nonvideo service without regulation. Board heard an 
update from its stai on First Amendment cases, but, according to с 
spokesman, it has yot lo find a First Amendment caso it can use to 
ight to limit franchises. I! alse heard reports 


on efforts to eliminate telco-cable crossownership prohibitions, signal 
leakage, possible changes in tax laws affecting cable, National Ca. 
ble Month, the FCC's copyright and syndicated exclusivity proceed. 
ings and constitutional challenge of must-carry rules. NCTÀ s HDTV 
commities, meeting day before board, saw demonstration of HDTV 
system by Home Box Office and ATC. 
a 

FCC amended its rules and cleared way last week for severa 
daytime stations to begin operating full time. Stations opercting or 
regional channels and 940 khz and 1550 khz will be allowed to oper 
aie at 500 watts or less at night in cases of interference with existinc 
AM fulltimers. Commission will also cease authorizations of new 
daytime-only AM's on 940 and 1550. Stations will be reclassified a: 
either Class Ш or Class Ш-5. In same ruling, commission reducoc 
minimum power for Class Ш AM's оп regional channels to 250 watts. 
Unlimited stations also will not have to follow old requirement ol city 
of license coverage during nighttime operation. 


Dr. William Glenn, inventor of New York Institute of Technology’: 
two-channel HDTV system, compatible with NTSC TV receivers 
held meeting last week with 15-20 representatives from broad 
casting companies and associations. Executives Irom CBS, ABC 
NAB, INTV. Group W and several oiher groups were invited to МҮП" 
Fort Lauderdale, Fla., lab. According to one attendee, Greg DePrice 
of Association of Maximum Service Telecasters, Glenn asked broad 
casters for S6 million over next three years to help perfect NYIT sys 
iem. "He had a timoline...showing ho'll be ready for a field demon 
stration of his system sometime in the first quarter of 1989," DePries 
said 


a 
Senate Judiciary Committee is expected to approve next weel 
legislation aimed at curbing violence on television programs fo 
children, Bill (5. 844), sponsored by Senator Paul Simon (D-I.) wouk 
encourage voluntary action by television companies. It would ex 
empl members of industry from antitrust laws for 36 months so the’ 
could develop voluntary standards. Judiciary committee's antitrus 
subcommittee approved bill earlier this month. Full committee wa 
scheduled to act on matter last week but did nol have quorum. Nex 
full committee meeting scheduled for Dec. 3. Aides predict bill will be 
cleared for floor action. 


U.S. district judge in Las Vegas has slashed libel judgment enter 


‘Family Feud’ soon to be sold to NBC stations 


Expected sale stirs rumors about 
fate of network's first-run 
sitcom checkerboard schedule 


After a successful syndicated run on the 
NBC-owned stations in the late 1970s 
and early 1980s, Family Feud is ex- 
pected to return to the O&O's beginning 
in fall 1988. A decision could come as 
early as this week. The expected sale by 
LBS Communications to the seven NBC 
stations fueled rumors in the syndication 
community that the group will cancel its 
first-run sitcom checkerboard, but Wes 
Harris, vice president of programing for 
the NBC O&O's said that the future of 
the checkerboard on five of the seven 
Stations, remains undecided. 

Syndicators and stations are monitor- 
ing the progress of the checkerboard to 
determine its viability in syndication as 
well as its impact on the half-hour sitcom 
marketplace (see story page 49). 

The sale of the Goodson-Todman Pro- 


duction (formerly syndicated by Via- 
com) to the NBC-owned stations is for 
either early fringe or access time peri- 
ods, Harris said that in addition to filling 
in for the checkerboard, should it be 
canceled, the buy of the LBS program 
opens up the possibility that six of the 
NBC stations will move the network 
news from 7 p.m. to 6:30 to create an 
hour of access from 7 to 8 for syndicated 
fare. NBC's wkYC-Tv Cleveland is the 
only owned station with an hour of ac- 
cess 

NBC has not announced a date for a 
decision on the checkerboard. When 
was announced last year, Harris said 
that the NBC stations would give the 
checkerboard a chance to prove itself 
before reaching an conclusions. 

Changes in the line-up of sitcoms in 
the checkerboard could be made as early 
as December, Harris said. NBC now has 
two or three available shows to substi- 
tute in the checkerboard for shows that 


do not meet N BC's expectations. He de- 
clined to identify those shows. 

Recently released demographic rat- 
ings for the checkerboards on the NBC- 
owned stations were disappointing in 
some cases and mixed in others, accord- 
ing to NBC research (BROADCASTING, 
Nov. 16). The October ratings book 
considered by researchers to be less im- 
portant than the November book be- 
cause of comparatively lower HUT 
(homes using television) levels, and the 
shorter track record shows have had 
since their debuts. 

Harris said that the checkerboard re- 
sults in the October ratings books were 
"complicated" and “need further analy- 
sis." But he added that “on balance 
first-run sitcoms are here to stay. I think 
what Im seeing is that shows that work 
will continute to be sustained." 

Last week's buy of Feud by the NBC 
stations was accompanied by the news 
that the station group had turned down 


tainer Wayne Newton won against NBC from $22.8 million to $5.3 
million. Judge Myron Crocker ruled that evidence did nol support 
Newton's claim that NBC news broadeosts linking him lo organized 
rime figures had hurt his reputation or income. But Crocker aílirmed 
jury's conclusion that network had defamed Newton and had shown 
reckless disregard for truth, Newton's lawyer, Morton Galane, called 
Judge's decision "a big victory for Wayne Newton.” NBC attorney 
Floyd Abrams said network would continue Ю appeal verdict, NBC 
had asked Crocker to reconsider verdict as well as award. 


Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev has made clear his displeasure 
mith CBS News coverage. Soviet official last week informed CBS 
Moscow bureau chiet Wyatt Andrews that Gorbachev would not 
grant interview to network during his visit to U.S. (or summil with 
resident Reagan. Citicial cited CBS documentary on Soviet war 
against rebels in Aighanisian, as well as questions Don Rather asked 
during press conference Soviel leader held in Paris in October 1985 
Rather had asked why Soviets did not allow unrestricted emigration 
x Jews. He also asked how many political prisoners were in Soviet 
Jnion. Gorbachev said he had answered boih questions and had 
rothing more to add, CBS las! week said Howard Stringer, CES News 
oresident, had telexed letter lo Gorbachev expressing shock and 
disappointment at Gorbachev's refusal to grant one-on-one inter 
new. However, i Gorbachev wants to grant that kind of interview, 
many news organizations, including ABC, NBC and CNN, have re- 
quests pending, 


3udget compromise between administration and Congress late Fri- 
ісу (Nov 20) was greeted with cautious optimism by National 
Association of Broadcasters, which interpreted conclusions as rul- 
ng ош апу transfer tax against industry. NAB spokesman said, how 
мет, that anything could yet happen at House and Senate level: “I's 
10t yet an oubol-the-woods situation. 
с 

3TG Entertainment will begin production of half-hour show with 
working lille Encore this spring for CBS. Show is port of multi-series, 
ton-exclusive deal between CBS and GTG. GTG will produce 13 
apiscdes of series which stars Dick Von Dyke апа his son Barry 
slaying soles ol father and son. Jay Sandrich, director of shows in- 
осіла The Cosby Show and The Golden Girls will direct pilot. 
Donald Todd, creator of ALF, created Encore and wil ecutive 
xoducer. 


Paramount gave Star Trek: The Next Generation go-ahead for 
another season їп first-run syndication last week. So far this season 
the Gene Rodenberry production ranks fourth among all firs-run 
syndicated programs with a 10.1 nationcl Nielsen rating for its four 
weekly telecasts (beginning weekend of Oct. 5). The Nez! Genera- 
tion is produced by Paramount's network television division at more 
than $l million per episode. I is carried by 227 stations, many of them 
affiliates. Star Trek's debut in syndication this year was accompa- 
nied by news that number of affiliates in its lineup, especially ABC 
aililiates are using program to pre-emp! Saturday prime time network 
programing on regular basis. 


a 


U.S. and Cuba have agreed to resume talks aimed at reducing 
technical interference that has long been source of complaint by 
American AM stations, particularly in Southeast. U.S. and Cubs, in 
statements released simultaneously in Washington and Havana on 
Friday, seid negotiations conducted in secret In Mexico City had 
succeeded in "delinking" radio Issue from talks on resuming 1984 
Mariel migration agreement, Two sides have agreed to resume im- 
mediately implementation of migration agreement, undor which 
Cuba has agreed lo take back almost 3,000 undesirables who arrived. 
in U.S. in 1980 Mariel boat litt, while U.S. processes applications of 
those eligible to enter country. Cuba ended talks in May 1985 after 
0.5.5 Radio Marti began broadcasting news and entertainmnent 
programs to Cuba. Statement said talks on radio interference will be 
conducted "in strict accordance with international law, including 
applicable radio law and regulations." U.S maintains that Cuban 
stations causing interference are in violation of international law. 
State Department official said resumption of Manel agreement will 
not compromise Radio Marti operations. Agreement wiil have "no 
consequences” for Radio Mart, which, he said, has been doing "an 
excellent jo 


с 


NATPE International reports that floor space for 25th annual pro- 
gram conference in Houston (Feb. 25-29) is sold out. Washington. 
airman Katharine Graham is keynote speaker. Other 
clude FCC Chairman Dennis Patrick, Linda Ellerbee and 
Phil Donahue. 


с 


Federal Communications Bar Association will honor FCC Chair- 
man Dennis Patrick with informal dinner/reception on Dec. 8 at 
Washington Marriott hotel. For information: (202) 429-3845. 


GTG Marketing for a group deal on 
USA Today. Each NBC station can 
purchase the show оп ils own if it 
chooses to do so. The CBS-owned sta- 


tions also declined to buy USA Today 
as а group ("Closed Circuit," Nov 16 ). 
GTG is now, or soon will be, making 
presentations in the top five markets. 


Casualty list at TV networks 


CBS cancels 'Law and Harry McGraw'; 
changes other programs; NBC 
considers three low-rated shows 


Critical November sweeps claimed their 
first casualty last week and prompted 
some schedule reshuíliing by TV net- 
works. In first programing move as new 
president of CBS Entertainment, Kim 
LeMasters announced cancellation of 
the floundering new Univeral series, 
The Law & Harry McGraw, 58h in 
last week's Nielsen ratings. The last 
show will air on Dec. 22. 

CBS will also add a new one hour series 
called High Mountain Rangers pro- 
duced by series’ star Robert Conrad’s A. 
Shane Co. The network also will bring 


back Simon & Simon for a seventh sea- 
son and will undertake a major revamping 
of its third-place Monday night lineup. 

Under the revised schedule, the new 
CBS News program 48 Hours will debut 
Tuesday, Jan. 19, from 8 to 9 p.m.; Si- 
mon & Simon from Universal reappears 
9 to 10 p.m. Thursday beginning Dec. 3; 
and High Mountain Rangers pre- 
mieres at 8-9 on Saturday, Jan. 2. 

Other CBS scheduling changes: Kate 
& Allie will move to 8 p.m. and Frank's 
Place to 8:30 p.m, on Monday, Dec. 7, 
shifting their rotation in the hour; Hous- 
ton Knights moves trom 8 то 9 p.m. on 
Tuesdays to 9 to 10 p.m. on Saturdays be- 
ginning Jan. 2., with its final Tuesday 
broadcast on Dec. 29 (CBS did not an- 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1887 


nounce programing for the time period on 
Jan. 5 and 12); Wiseguy moves from 9 to 
10 p.m. Thursday to 10 to 1! p.m. Mon- 
day on January 4, with the final broadcast. 
in its current time siot last Thursday 
(Nov. 19). Cagney & Lacey, a staple 
from 10 to 11 p.m. Mondays for the past 
several years, moves into the 10 to 11 
p.m. period Tuesday, Jan. 5, in the slot 
being vacated by The Law & Harry 
McGraw. 


NBC, meanwhile, late last week was 
contemplating the fate of at least three 
low-rated programs: Private Eye, which 
finished 55th in the Nielsens for the week 
ended Nov. 15; J-J. Starbuek, 45th, and 
Rags to Riches, 541. Network Enter- 
tainment President Brandon Tartikoff has 
said that he wanted to see how the shows 
performed last week before making any 
cancellation decisions. 


At ABC, the programing division will 
shift its Saturday night rotation on Dec. 5, 
with Ohara moving to 8 p.m. and Sable 
109 p.m. 


COMMITTED TO THE FIRST AMENDMENT & THE 


IFTH ESTATE 


D 
PUN 


Ecitorialsa 


Reversing the mirror 


The Times Mirror-sponsored Gallup studies of public opin- 
ion about the news media and their performance continue to 
discover a public that is, as remarked here before, both 
quirky and full of ambiguities. The latest study, released 
last week, turned up a larger majority (68%) of respondents 
belicving that news organizations "went too far" in report- 
ing the Gary Hart-Donna Rice affair and 65% with the same 
opinion about reports that Pat Robertson's first child was 
conceived out of wedlock. It is difficult to square those 
responses with those to another question in thè same sur- 
vey. 
This question was asked: “Some say that close scrutiny 
of political candidates by news organizations is not worth it 
because it discourages too many good people from running 
for President. Others say that press scrutiny is worth it 
because it lets voters really know who is and who is not 
personally qualified to be President. Which comes closer to 
your view?" A substantial majority (59%) said press scruti- 
ny was worth it; 32% felt otherwise; 9% didn’t know. 

The first Gallup study of this kind for Times Mirror, 
discussed in BROADCASTING’s issues of Jan. 20 and 27, 
1986, found other seeming contradictions in public atti- 
tudes. In that sample, 55% said media try to cover up 
mistakes, but 79% thought media care about the quality of 
their work, For media the latter is a more gratifying figure 
than the former. 

Maybe these бой аге less conflicting than they look 
to be at first glance Clearly a popular majority believes 
news media ought to turn the light on presidential candi- 
dates and, presumably others seeking office. That belief is 
not necessarily at ‘odds with the belief that disclosures can 
g0 too far. Nor is it necessarily inconsistent for people to 
think that media conceal mistakes but to recognize that 
media may do so while caring for their work. 

Whatever is to be deduced fron these surveys, editors 
must continue to present what experience and tradition 
teach them to present: the news, even if it discomfits the 
public. Maybe 68% of the people would rather not have 
learned about the Hart-Rice interlude, but concealment 
would not have complied with a 59% vote for press scrutiny 
of candidates. If messenger and message occasionally dis- 
turb the national tranquility, the messenger's job must go 
on. It is a job that still commands a favorable report from 
80% of the people. 


Chickens and eggs 


The National Association of Broadcasters has asked the 
FCC to put its weight behind the AM audio processing 
standards adopted by the National Radio Systems Commit- 
tee. The standards are intended to reduce interference and 
increase frequency response. AM broadcasters have been 
somewhat reluctant, and understandably so, to embrace 
the standards. Maybe 10% of 5,000 AM stations on the air 
have converted to the new standards or say they intend to 
convert. 

What's keeping the others from spending the inconse- 
quential $700 or so it costs to burnish up their sound? For 
one thing, limiting the fidelity to 10 khz at the studio, as the 
standards require, means decreasing fidelity to an audience 
with standard AM receivers, a risk many broadcasters may 
not wish to make without some insurance that their compet- 
itors are doing the same, They are also put off by the 
absence of wideband receivers that will accommodate bet- 


ter sound. The manufacturers, which can correct the last 
part of that equation, are reluctant to commit to the produc- 
tion of wideband receivers without the widespread adop- 
tion of the 10 khz limit. Stalemate. 

Both sides would benefit from a standard imposed on 
broadcasters by the FCC. As the NAB argued, manufactur- 
ers would be given the incentive to build wideband sets if 
the broadcast quality were there. It is a playing-ficld im- 
passe that cries for a judicial call by an impartial referee. 
This page yields to no one in its admiration of the market- 
place, but in this case, let the FCC decide. 


Delicate balance 


There are at least two ways to read this weck's “Top of the 
Weck”’ story about the equities cable operators are taking 
in the program services they carry. The first is to cheer the 
abundance of new, cable-exclusive programing this system 
has created. The second is to raise a new alarm over cable 
"monopoly." 

At bottom, in this page's view, it's a question of the 
willingness in the marketplace. Fair market value is estab- 
lished, they say, when you have a willing buyer and a 
willing seller. So long as the program entrepreneurs share 
equity because it's a mutually beneficial arrangement, all's 
well and good. When coercion enters the picture, one might 
expect the Justice Department to be close behind. 

The broadcasting industry experienced its own run-in 
with this phenomenon back in the heyday of the TV net- 
works. Once was, in prime time and otherwise, many series 
turned out to be co-productions, with the networks as part- 
ners, participating not only in the network run but often in 
the syndication that followed. It wasn't long before reluc- 
tant partners from Hollywood went to see the Antitrust 
Division, and just a little later that the networks entered 
into a consent decree that has effectively frozen them out of 
program equities for two decades. 

The Fifth Estate doesn't need a rerun of that scenario. 
The current surge of development is in line with cable's oft- 
promised intention to concentrate on programing once it 
had established national network of physical plant. 
Moreover, it is giving cable the programing plus it needs to 
attract even greater penetration. The industry wins, the 
public wins. 

What cable must not do is use its powcr to extort equity 
or deny market entry. Down that road lies disaster. 


Drawn for BROADCASTING by Jack Schmidt 


They're from PBS. 


Broadcasting Nov 23 1987 
98 


The People, the Press & Politics 


UNITED WE STAND FOR WHAT? 


hat are the values and beliefs that Amer- 
icans stand for today? We asked Gallup 
to find out. 

Gallup talked to 4,244 people, face-to-face, in interviews 

that typically lasted 70 minutes, and identified nine values 

and beliefs that define—and divide- political opinion 

Religious faith. 8096 of the American electorate say they're 
conscious of the presence of God, 

Social justice. 62% believe government should guarantee 
every citizen food and shelter 

Militant anti-communism. 56% believe communists are 
responsible for a lot of the unrest in the U.S. today, 54% 
think the best way to ensure peace is through military 
strength. 

American exceptionalism. 68% think the US. has a bound- 
less ability to solve its problems. 

Alienation. 52% say they have no say about what govern- 
ment does; 73% say elected officiais in Washington 
quickly lose touch with the people. 

Financial pressure. 43% say they often don't have enough 
money to make ends meet. 

Attituces toward government. 63% think government is 
inefficient and wasteful 

Attitudes toward "big business!" 77% think too much power 


Times Mirror 


We're interested in what you think. 


ы 


TiMES MIRROR 
COMPANIES 


TIMES MIRROR NEWSPAPERS: 
Los Angeles Times; Newoday and 
New York Newsday, the Baltimore 
Son newspapers. The Hartford 
‘Courant; The Morning Call (Ales. 
town, PA), The Advocate, Си 
‘wich Time (Connecticut); Los 
Angeles Times Syndicate 


‘TIMES MIRROR MAGAZINES: 
Fopular Science; Outdoor Life, 
Golf magazane; Ski magazine, The 
Sporing News and The Sporting 
Goods DEALER, Broadcasting, 
National Journal, Sports inc The 
Sports Business Weekly 

TIMES MIRROR TV STATIONS: 
KDFW-TV, Dallas; KTBC-TV, 
Austin; КТУ, St Lous, WVIM- 
TV Birmingham (AL). 


Tues MIRROR CABLE 
More thas 40 exble TV systems 
эшме 300 communities in 14 states 
across the nation 


is concentrated in too few large 
corporations. 

Tolerance! intolerance. 48% think 
it's all right for blacks and whites 
to date each other; 5096 say 
books containing dangerous 
ideas should be banned from 
public school libraries. 


TIMES MIRROR PUBLISHING: 
Matthew Bender & Company law 
books The C.V. Mosby Company, 
medical and college publishers, 
Yeu Book Medical Publishers/CRC 
|| Press wolfe Medical Publishers 
medical and scientific publica: 


tiens; Learning International, 


A COPY OF OUR STUDY “mining Merten 
IS YOURS FOR THE ASKING. | Sinderson ri informerar 


and training; Harry N. Abrams, 


It not only identifies what | 
Americansstand for, it also defines | 
the I] sub-groups that really 
make up the political spectrum 
and the attitudes that underlie 
our political language. 

It will help us to report on 
politics with greater clarity, and it 
could prompt you to see the political process in a new light. 

If you'd like a copy, write our chairman, Robert F Erburu, 
‘Times Mirror, Times Mirror Square, Suite 100, Los Angeles, 
CA 90053. Or call (213) 237-3946. 

And then let us know what you think 


art books, Times Mirror Press, 
‘rectors and manuals 


Onea DIMES Mirror 
OPERATIONS. 


Milion Market Мораче Пак 
Minor National Marketing, Times 
Mirror Land and Timber Company 


Brie inclade spenden 
Via comply ac] meaty” 
ape wi quen interes, 


does it better! 


Ward-Beck's all-new D8212 Audio Distribution 
System is totally transparent! Absolutely nothing 
else on the market today can compare for 
precision, performance, packaging or price! 


Check these features: 


* Twelve high-performance modular DAs 

each with 8 outputs. 

* Dual switch-mode power supplies. 

* 31" rack mounting frame. 

* Unique hinged/quick-release front panel. 

* Gold-plated terminals throughout. 

* Integral typewriter designation strip. 

* Unmatched overall performance specifications. 
* Renowned Ward-Beck Reliability and Quality. 
* Priced right 


WBS 


First by Design 


Ward-Beck Systems Ltd., 841 Progress Avenue, Scarborough, Ontario, Canada MIH 2X4. Tel: (416)438-6550 Tix: 065-29399. 


